Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2895 BR
(Minas Gerais Forestry Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated September 30, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2895 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake  such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Banco de Desenvolvimento de 
Minas Gerais (BDMG) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
Page  2
the Borrower will make available to BDMG part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and 
BDMG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and BDMG of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BDMG pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(e)
"Cruzado" means the currency of the Guarantor;
 
(f)
"IBDF" means Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal, the 
Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development;
(g)
"IEF" means Instituto Estadual de Florestas, the State Forestry 
Institute;
(h)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by BDMG or a 
Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project;
(i)
"BDMG Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by BDMG out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Bank for purposes of financing an Investment 
Project;
(j)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower 
proposed to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(l)
"Investment Project" means a specific forestry development project to be 
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(m)
"BDMG Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 2.607 of January 5, 1962 and 
"BDMG Charter" means the Borrower's Decree No. 17.115 of April 22, 1975, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
Page  3
(n)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment 
policy approved by Resolution No. 001-C of BDMG dated May 19, 1976, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement; and
(o)
"OTN" means  Obrigao do Tesouro Nacional - OTN the National  Treasury 
Bonds referred to in Article 6 of the Guarantor's Decree Law No. 2.284,  dated March 
10, 1986, published in the Diario Oficial of March 11, 1986;
(p)
"BDMG Criteria" means the technical, financial and economic criteria 
applied by BDMG in the financing of forestry activities as provided to the Bank;
(q)
"Participating Bank" means any bank or financing entity operating in the 
territories of the Borrower, which has the qualification of a financial agent and has 
been approved by the Bank and BDMG for participating in the carrying out of Part A of 
the Project;
(r)
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement entered into, or to be 
entered into, between BDMG and a Participating Bank for purposes of Part A of the 
Project;
(s)
"Regulation" means the decree to be enacted by the Borrower pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement to ensure  that SEPLAN-MG will 
review and respond to requests of IEF or BDMG for reimbursement of eligible 
expenditures under the Project within three  working days, and that all disbursements 
from the Loan Account or the Special Account are retained for no more than one working 
day in the Borrower's Treasury before being passed to IEF or BDMG;
(t)
"SEPLAN-MG" means Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination for 
the State of Minas Gerais; and
(u)
"FISET" means Fundo de Investimentos Setoriais, a fund established by the 
Guarantor for the financing of reforestation, tourism and fisheries investments 
pursuant to Decree-Law No. 1376 of December 12, 1974, as  regulated by Decree-Law  No. 
2304 of November 21, 1986, Decree No. 93.607  of November 21, 1986 and Decree No. 
94.766 of August 11, 1987.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to forty eight million five hundred thousand dollars 
($48,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement  between the Borrower and the Bank for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account 
of withdrawals made  by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts B through D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in the Central Bank a Special Account in dollars on  terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions  of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out, through IEF, and under the coordination of its SEPLAN-MG, Parts B, C and D 
of the Project with due diligence and  efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial and  forestry practices, and shall provide, as needed and in a 
timely manner, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, and (ii) cause BDMG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of BDMG therein set forth, shall take  and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to   enable BDMG to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall 
purchase or assign, on an exclusive basis, the vehicles and  equipment required for 
the timely execution of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan allocated for 
Part A of the Project to BDMG under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and BDMG, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include the following: (i) that the amounts made available to BDMG will be 
denominated in cruzados and adjusted in accordance with the variations of the OTN 
value; (ii) (A) that the  interest rate to be paid by BDMG on amounts disbursed and 
outstanding will be the rate specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and (B) that 
notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (ii) (A) above, the interest rate to be 
paid by BDMG shall not exceed 8% per annum in respect of amounts  disbursed before 
October 2, 1989 and 9% per annum in respect of amounts disbursed thereafter; (iii) the 
repayment period shall not exceed: (A) 14 years, including a grace period not to 
exceed 7 years in the case of the funds made available by the State for financing 
Sub-loans for industrial reforestation, and (B) 4 years, including a grace period not 
to exceed 1  year in the case of the funds made available by the State for financing  
Page  5
Sub-loans for charcoal infrastructure; (iv) BDMG will not pay any commitment charge on 
the funds made available to BDMG  by the State under this Section; (v) that the 
Borrower shall participate in the yearly reviews of onlending  terms of Sub-loans 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Project  Agreement; and (vi) that the 
Borrower and BDMG shall, based on the results of such yearly reviews modify the 
Subsidiary Agreement accordingly.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and those of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive  the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A through D of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be  governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by BDMG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing and to the reporting and information 
obligations set forth in the General Conditions, the Borrower, through SEPLAN MG, 
shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than March 31  and September 30 each year, 
semi-annual reports, of such scope and detail  as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the progress of the implementation of the Project; and (ii) no later than June 30 
each year, furnish to the Bank an evaluation report, of such scope and detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, including a description of the status of each of the 
activities included under the Project and an assessment of the benefits and 
experiences to be derived from them.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the annual evaluation reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section to be prepared by independent  consultants with 
experience, qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause IEF to maintain, for purposes of Parts B, 
C, and D of the Project, an implementation unit with organization,  structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank and staffed with personnel  in numbers and with 
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain in SEPLAN-MG a unit in charge of the 
overall coordination of the implementation of the Project, with organization, 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and staffed  with personnel in 
numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 each year, furnish to the Bank a proposed 
allocation in its next year budget of counterpart funds required for the timely 
execution of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposed 
allocation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and cause IEF to maintain, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures  in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
Page  6
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
cause such records and accounts and the records and accounts for 
the Special 
Account for each fiscal year to be audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of the accounts for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as 
well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BDMG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BDMG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The BDMG Law or the BDMG Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect  materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of BDMG or its ability to carry out 
Part A of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment, or for the suspension of 
operations, of BDMG or a Participating Bank.
(e)
That 45 days shall have elapsed from the date the Bank notifies  the 
Page  7
Borrower and BDMG of its disagreement to the onlending terms proposed  by the Borrower 
and BDMG during the review referred to in paragraph 2 of  Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement and no subsequent agreement has been  reached on on-lending such terms.
(f)
A Participating Bank shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Participation Agreement provided, however, that if this  event shall have 
occurred and be continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account may be limited  to the amounts relent to the Participating Bank 
concerned by such event.
(g)
The Regulation has been amended, or applied in a way that, in the Bank's 
reasonable opinion, it shall have failed to meet its objectives.
(h)
The BDMG criteria have been amended to an extent that, in the  Bank's 
reasonable opinion, they shall have failed to provide an adequate basis for evaluating 
Investment Projects.
(i)
The Borrower's Resolution No. 4279/87 as amended by Resolution No. 4377 
of October 2, 1987 shall have been revoked, annulled or repealed and  shall have not 
been substituted by another valid and enforceable instrument  providing for such 
authorization.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) or (f) or (g) or (h) or (i) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and BDMG; 
and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, that:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and 
BDMG;
(b)
the Borrower shall have allocated in its 1988 budget an aggregate amount 
of $2,000,000 equivalent as its counterpart funds for Parts B through D of the 
Project; and
(c)
the Regulation has been enacted.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BDMG, 
and is legally binding upon BDMG in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BDMG in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Regulation has been duly enacted, it is in full force and effect 
and is binding on the Borrower's Treasury.
Section 6.03. The date December 29, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Planning and General Coordination of the  
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes  of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenao Geral
Rua Bernardo Guimares 2731
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
30140 Brazil
Telex:
318211
SEPLAN-MG
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Everardo Wessels
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Alipio Pires Castello Branco
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  9
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                  36,800,000      100% of the amount
     for Part A of                              disbursed
     the Project
(2)  Goods (other                1,400,000      100% of foreign
     than vehicles and                          expenditures and
     micro-computers)                           50% of local
     for Parts B through                        expenditures
     D of the Project
(3)  Project Admini-             5,200,000      (a) 60% until the
     stration and                               aggregate amount
     Training for                               of disbursements
     Parts B through                            under this Cate-
     D of the Project                           gory reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $3,500,000; and
                                                (b) 30% there-
                                                after, until
                                                such aggregate
                                                amount reaches the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $5,000,000; and
                                                (c) 10% thereafter
(4)  Consultants'                  200,000      100% of foreign
     Services for                               expenditures and
     Parts B through                            50% of local
     D of the Project                           expenditures
(5)  Civil works                   100,000      50%
     for Parts B
     through D of
     the Project
(6)  Unallocated                 4,800,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      48,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of any Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in  
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
in respect of a Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank, unless the Bank 
has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such Participating  Bank has 
entered into a Participating Agreement with BDMG and that such  Participation 
Agreement is in full force and effect and binding on the  parties thereto in 
Page  10
accordance with its terms; and
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not  exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made on account of payments  made for expenditures 
under Parts B through D of the Project before that date but after June 1, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase industrial wood production 
and rural employment in the State; (ii) to reduce degradation of   native forests, and 
improve environmental protection in the State; and  (iii) to strengthen the management 
capabilities of IEF.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Credit
 
The financing, through Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises, of the  
establishment of about 165,000 hectares of forest plantations for industrial  
purposes, in particular for charcoal production, and of charcoal kilns and  associated 
equipment and infrastructure.
Part B:
Small-scale Reforestation Program
 
1.
A program to attain the planting of about 34,000 hectares of eucalyptus  
woodlots for charcoal, pulpwood, pole and post production on small- and medium-sized 
farms, through the provision of seedlings, fertilizer, formicide and extension 
services to farmers.
2.
Establishment of woodlots of about 7,320 hectares of native tree  species 
through the provision of seedlings, fertilizer, formicide and extension services to 
farmers.
Part C:
Forestry Conservation
 
1.
A Control of Forest Harvesting program including:
 
(a)
Monitoring of forest harvesting through the preparation of a  state 
forest inventory and vegetation maps, and the establishment of a  computerized data 
bank, including therein information on vegetation types, their location and areas, 
volumes of timber and per hectare wood production.
(b)
Development of native forest management techniques for energy production 
including: (i) provision of technical staff for IEF to install and manage experimental 
plots to determine fuel wood and charcoal yields in the State using different resource 
management techniques; and (ii) establishment of a central coordinating group of IEF 
to evaluate the data obtained from such experiments.
(c)
Creation of a fire prevention and control service including: (i) the 
staffing and equipping of a state center and regional operational centers for forest 
fire prevention and control; (ii) the construction of six fire towers in the State of 
Minas Gerais; and (iii) the provision of consultant services to train IEF staff in 
forest fire prevention and control techniques.
(d)
Development of charcoal manufacturing technology, including: (i) the 
training of IEF field staff in construction and charcoaling techniques; and (ii) the 
preparation of manuals and audio visual extension materials for training small 
producers in the new charcoaling techniques.
2.
Education on Forestry Conservation
 
(a)
Training of IEF staff in forestry conservation and the implementation of 
Page  11
a communication campaign for education of the general public in forestry conservation.
(b)
Staffing, equipping, training and providing of extension materials for 
IEF's educational centers.
3.
Development of Parks and Reserves
 
(a)
Improvement of infrastructure and staffing of State parks.
 
(b)
Establishment of a Planning Unit for State urban areas to assist 
municipalities in planning and establishing parks and recreational areas.
(c)
Carrying out ecological research projects including studies of  animals 
threatened with extinction and biological inventories of parks and reserves.
Part D:
Institutional Development of IEF
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to IEF staff to overcome their 
skill deficiencies.
2.
Monitoring of Project activities.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1991
through   September 1, 2002
2,020,000
 
On March 1, 2003
2,040,000
Page  12
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding
on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years but not
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
1.
Local competitive bidding: Except as provided in paragraph A.2 and A.3 hereof, 
civil works and goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Shopping: Goods estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Sub-loans
 
Contracts for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of Sub-loans 
shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and   reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and  spare parts therefor and in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part B: 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  13
(a)
With respect to the first five contracts for Parts B through D of the 
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and thereafter,  each contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the  procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) of such Appendix shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be  made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the  other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and  terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "elegible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to  Categories (1) through (5) 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $2,500,000 (or such 
other amount as the Bank may agree, at the request of and by notice to  the Borrower, 
according to the disbursement requirements of the Project) to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special  Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
After the Effective Date, the Bank may, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  14
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the  basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective Categories (1) through (5), and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the  
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, any 
request for any further deposit into the Special Account may be denied by  the Bank 
when either of the following situations arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made directly 
by the Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(ii)
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
Categories (1) through 
(5) for the Project, minus the amount of 
any outstanding qualified agreement to 
reimburse made by the Bank 
and of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the equivalent 
of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (5) shall  follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit  in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out  of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this  Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit  into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
