Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C A. /gA$5 - ezt
RqumtN.. P-4098-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
-    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 18.0 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 30, 1985
Ti doamet he. a    Irdi s iliib e  d may be md by reiplemts aduy   the perf.mee of
I   dr .daI d.d. lb esmt   ma not ethuiw   be dbdeqd widho  Wrl Bak autbedm. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALTS
Currency Unit  =  Kyat (K)
US$1.00        =  K 8.90
Kyat (K) 1.00 = US$0.112
Value of Kyat is tied to SDR and floats against US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)              1.273 cubic feet (cu. ft.) true
geometric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (Ht)              50 HF in round logs, equivalent
to 50.64 -63.66 cu. ft. depending
on log shape
= 1.4-1.8 cubic meter (m3) of wood
underbark depending on log shape
1 sawn ton (St)            =   50 cu. ft. of sawnwood, or 1.416 m3
1 metric ton (mt)          =   2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AAC        -     Annual Allowable Cut
ADB        -     Asian Development Bank
BPC        -     Burma Ports Corporation
BFSSC      -     Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation
BRC        -     Burma Railways Corporation
CC         -     Construction Corporation
CmCC       -     Central Movement Coordination Committee
FAO        -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD         -     Forest Department
MWTC       -     Inland Water Transport Corporation
MAF        -     Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOC        -     Ministry of Construction
MOTC       -     Ministry of Transport and Communications
PCC        -     Project Coordination Group
TC         -     Timber Corporation
UNDP       -     United Nations Development Programme
BURMA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiarr:          The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC)
Amount:               Spe-ial Drawing Rights (SDR) 18 Million
(US$17.75 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project Objectives    Transport capacity, in general, and the movement of
and Description:      timber in particular, are deteriorating at a juncture
when Burmese exports are facing a major setback. Since
teak is one of the principal export commodities, the
project is designed to address the unique and immediate
transport problems pertaining to timber distribution.
The project would include improvenents in specific
roads and rail lines, provision and rehabilitation of.
rolling stock, and consolidation a.ad upgrading of log
depots and loading stations. Innovative cost- effec-
tive measures include containerization of forestry
products, use of push tug and barges in river systems
and more efficient shipside loading of timber. In
addition to technical assistance and training, a
Comprehensive Study would be undertaken to identify
and address long-term issues of timber distribution
in Burma.
Risks:                All project components, including innovative measures,
involve proven technology. Nevertheless, technical
assistance and training, provided under the project,
would help minimize technical risks. Project implemen-
tation would require coordination of activities among
several agencies. There are possible risks from inade-
quate project implementation but mechanisms have been
proposed (for example, MOTC retaining control of
project implementation through Project Coordination
Group) to minimize such risks.
IThis document has a resuited distribution and may be used by reciAents only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated
Project Costs:                                        (US_  Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total
Myitkyina Corridor
Rail-Road System              6.59       8.42    15.01
Sawn Timber Transport           0.72       1.61     2.33
Container Equipment             0.33       0.72     1.05
Barging System                  1.32       1.45     2.77
Ship Loading/Rangoon Port       0.49      0.55      1.04
Technical Assistance            0.20       0.20     0.40
and Training                  ----       ----     ----
Total                     9.65     12.95    22.60
Contingencies
Physical                      0.78      1.29      2.07
Price                         1.47      2.26      3.73
Total                    11.90     16.50    28.40
Comprehensive Study             0.10      0.50      0.60
Total Project Costs            12.00     17.00    29.00
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA                             1.25     16.50    17.75
Government                     10.75       -       10.75
UNDP                             -        0.50      0.50
Total                          12.00     17.00    29.00
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      (US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA FY                  FY86      FY87     FY88    FY89
Annual                   0.5      1.2        9.0    7.05
Cumulative               0.5      1.7       10.7   17.75
Economic Rate
of Return:            35%
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 5461-BA, dated May 20, 1985
Map:                  IBRD 18518



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 18 million (US$17.75 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Timber Distribution Project. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has agreed to provide up to US$0.5
million equivalent for a Comprehensive Study to improve efficiency of timber
distribution over the long term.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Priorities for
Continued Growth" (Report No. 3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 10, 1982. An economic mission visited Burma
in August 1983. The findings of that mission are included in this section.
Country data are presented in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962, and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
Thereafter, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy, stated in the 1962 document entitled "The
Burmese Way to Socialism' reflects a combination of traditional Burmese
values and socialist doctrine. Despite the apparent political stability of
Burma's leadership, insurgency is a problem in large tracts of the country.
4.      The Government's economic development strategy is summarized in the
Twenty-Year Plan adopted in 1972. The Government's main economic objectives
are to foster economic growth within the context of e socialist system, to
enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency through transformation from an
agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment, and to reduce income disparities.
5.      The publication of the Twenty-Year Plan was followed by a wide range
of reforms and policy changes, the most important of which has been the
introduction in 1976 of two major taxes. These tax measures, accompanied by
a round of price and tariff increases, helped restore the country's public
finance to a sound basis. To encourage the state sector to operate more



-2-
efficiently, the Covernment also introduced in 1974 a new financial system
for the State Economic Enterprises (Si;Es) and authorized greater managerial
authority and work incentives for them.
6.      In the area of agriculture, the Government launched in the mid-1970s
a successful intensification program for paddy (Whole Township Extension
Program). Now extended to 50X of total paddy-sown land, the program has
combined improved availability of inputs (improved seeds and fertilizers) and
a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service with skillfully
orchestrated institutional and political support at the township level to
spread a uniquely Burmese version of the "Green Revolution".
7.      In part as a result of these measures, and in part as a resuLt of
generally favorable weather conditions, improving terms of trade and
increased flows of concessional foreign aid, Burma made impressive
economic progress during its Second and Third Four Year Plan periods
(1974/75-1981/82). Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by an annual
average of 6Z during the 1974/75-1981182 period, compared with 2.7Z in the
previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased as a share of GDP
from 10 in 1974/75 to 20X in 1981/82; the share of domestic savings in GDP
similarly increased from 11% to 17% over the same period. Significant
improvements in the Government's budgetary position also occurred during this
period, allowing the Government to reduce its dependence on borrowings from
the domestic banking system. This, in turn, contributed to a reduction in
the rate of inflation.
8.      However, as Burma en-.ered into the Fourth Four-Year Plan period in
1982183, the previously optimistic outlook on the economy was altered by an
abrupt deterioration in the acountry's balance of payments. The current
account deficit as a share of GDP widened from 4% in 1980/81 to about 6% in
1981/82 and to 9% in 1982/83; the overall payments balance worsened from a
surplus of US$33 million in 1980/81 to a deficit of US$103 million in
1982/83. The major causal factor for this downturn was a 22% decline in
Burma's terms of trade between 1981/82 and 1982/83, attributable principally
to a sharp drop in the international price of rice. While import volumes
have been growing faster than export volumes since the mid-1970s to support
rapidly expanding public sector investments, the resource gap did not widen
significantly until 1982/83 because of favorable export prices in earlier
years.
9.      The deterioration in the terms of trade underscored the basic struc-
tural weakness of the economy, namely, its dependence on two primary
commodities, rice and teak, for export earnings and public revenues.
Government revenue which had shown steady growth through 1981/82, declined in
1982/83, reflecting a sharp drop in contributions from the Export Price
Equalization Fund. With SEE capital expenditures growing at a fast pace, the
overall deficit in the consolidated public sector budget continued to widen
from 9% of GDP in 1980/81 to 11% in 1982/83. Though a good part of the
deficit has been financed by foreign loans and grants, borrowings from the
domestic banking system also increased steadily.
10.    Faced with a tight budgetary situation and a severe shortage of
foreign exchange, the Government's immediate concern was stabilization. in
1983/84, imports had to be reduced sharply to prevent further drawdown of



-3-
reserves. Capital expenditures by the SEEs were curtailed through rephasing
and consolidation of their investment programs. On the other hand, no new
revenue initiatives were taken. Hence, despite efforts to contain growth of
expenditure, the budgetary deficit continued to widen. Over the next few
years, the Government would need to continue to curtail expenditures; this
restraint should help significantly loosen the pressure on the talance of
payments.
11.     In the longer run, the Government's most important objective should
be to achieve high real GDP growth while maintaining domestic price
stability. New and wide-ranging initiatives would need to be taken in the
area of domestic resource mobilization to enable the Government to maintain
the level of public expenditures compatible with high growth without rapid
increases in domestic borrowings.
12.     Moreover, if Burma is to sustain high GDP growth, the initiatives
for stepping up domestic resource mobilization would need to be supported
by equally ambitious undertakings to increase export earnings. Agricultural
products now make up 80% of Burma's merchandise exports, with rice accounting
for as much as 50% of totaL agricultural exports. Given this export con-
centration and considerable uncertainties about Burma's future rice export
earnings, the Government's medium-to-longer term objective should be to
generate larger exportable surpluses of crops other than rice and teak to
help broaden the country's export base. Recognizing this, the Government has
in recent years, shifted the focus of its agricultural strategy away from
paddy to expanding the production of other crops. In the shorter term,
however, the Burmese economy is expected to continue to rely heavily on rice
and teak. Priority should be given to upgrading the quality of rice and
improving the handling and distribution of teak, both for export.
13.     Burma's debt service ratio (including IMF repurchases) increased from
25% in the 1980/81 to 35% in 1983/84, due primarily to a substantial increase
in the latter part of 1970s in loans from private financial institutions and
suppliers' credits. By March 1984, Burma's external public debt, disbursed
and outstanding, was approximately US$2.2 billion. The prospects for exports
over the medium-term are not favorable. According to World Bank price
projections, Burma's terms of trade, which had deteriorated during the past
two years, would recover only gradually over the next five years. To contain
the country's already high debt service burden, it is essential that external
assistance continue to be on concessionary terms.
14.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial issue is the quality
with which these resources will be managed and developed. The World Bank
continues to discuss with the Government its external assistance requirements
and measures for further improvements in economic management which would help
Burma realize its promising potential for economic development. Discussions
on these topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during
the Burma Aid Group meetings which the World Bank has organized at the
Government's request. The first meeting of the Group was held on
November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been four subsequent meetings,
with indications of increasing donor support each year.



-4-
PART 11 - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
15.     Burma became a member of IBRD in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in 1962.
Between 1956 and 1961, IBRD made three loans, totalling about US$33 million,
for the transport sector: one loan helped finance the Port of Rangoon's
reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities and procurement of
cargo-handling and port equipment, and two loans helped finance reconstruc-
tion ahid dieselization of the railways.
16.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973, and since then, 25 credits totalling about US$663.1 million equiv-
alent (net of cancellations) have been made. About 56Z of this assistance
was for 15 projects in the agriculture sector: provision for irrigation
pumps, two rubber rehabilitation projects, livestock development, seed
development, two paddyland development projects, grain storage, two forestry
projects, two wood industries projects, the Kindsa Dam multipurpose project, a
tank irrigation project, and a groundwater irrigation project. About 17Z of
IDA assistance supported rehabilitation of the transport sector through five
projects, namely inland water transport, railways, two port projects, and a
road construction project. The remaining 272 of IDA assistance was for two
projects in the telecommNunications sector (8Z), one project in the mining
sector (2U), a power project (122), and a textile-finishing plant project
(52). Seven credits have been fully disbursed. Initially, after resumption
of lending in 1973, disbursements were slow, but performance has improved
considerably as government agencies, such as the Irrigation Department, have
become more familiar with IDA procedures. In general, IDA-financed projects
have been carried out satisfactorily. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits as of Mharch 31, 1985. IFC has made no invest-
ments in Burma.
17.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some economic sectors and a lack of adequately prepared projects. Through
ongoing projects and sector work, IDA has developed more detailed knowledge
of many sectors. UNDP has provided about 10 million in technical assistance
through three Umbrella Projects, for which IDA is the executing agency. This
technical assistance has developed a project pipeline suitable for external
financing in priority sectors, such as agriculture, transport, power, and
industry. Several IDA-supported projects, namely seed development, rubber
rehabilitation, power transmission, construction industry, third port, and
groundwater irrigation, were prepared under these Umbrella Projects.
Furthermore, IDA plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-
project basis to help further strengthen Burmese project preparation and
implementation capabilities, as well as administrative and nanagerial skills
of Burmese personnel through in-service and overseas trainiag.
18.     IDA's country assistance strategy seeks to address Burma's imnediate
economic development constraints (paragraphs 8-13) and has the following
objectives: (a) to help improve foreign earnings by supporting economically
viable export promotion and import substitution activities, improving produc-
tion of export commodities, currently teak and rice, and developing other



-5-
crops for export; (b) to help enhance Government's ability to mobilize domes-
tic resources; and (c) to assist in modernizing and strengthening important
institutions, especially in sectors in which IDA is involved.
19.     In this context, IDA assistance, particularly to the agriculture and
energy sectors, will emphasize broadening of the country's export base
through programs for diversifying agricultural production and developing and
exploiting the newly found gas and oil fields. Projects under preparation
include a grain storage and a seeds project designed to improve the quality
of exported rice, and an irrigation project to rehabilitate priority irriga-
tion systems, initially for paddy production and later for other crops within
a proposed crop diversification program. Other projects include improvements
in infrastructure and development of gas and power, water supply, industry,
telecommunications and ports, mainly to rehabilitate and maximize utilization
of existing facilities. Implementation performance of prior projects in
forestry, wood industries and transport is outlined in paragraphs 34 to 36.
20.     The World Bank currently accounts for about 15Z of Burma's total
external 'ebt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-32.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Fore3try Sub-Sector
21.     Burma's objectives in the forestry sub-sector are to maximize teak
log export earnings in the near term, satisfy the domestic market for sawn
hardwoods and develop a strategy to maximize long-term economic returns from
its forest resource.
22.     Burma is well endowed with natural resources and forests are a major
element, covering about 96 million acres or about 50Z of total land area.
Climate and topography have contributed to a rich variety of forest species
and a river system providing access for timber extraction. Teak and a few
other valuable hardwood species have historically formed the major part of
forest output. Forestry activities account for less than 3% of CDP at
current prices but the sector is important in export trade, being the second
largest foreign exchange earner. In FY81/82, forest products earned about
Kyats (K) 696 million (US$78 million) and made a net contribution of about
K 600 million (US$67 million) to public sector resources.
23.     Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 million hoppus tons (Ht) in
1972/73, and after a period of decline, regained an extraction level of about
1.4 million Ht in 1981/82, comprising about 0.5 million Ht of teak, and
0.9 million Ht of hardwood. Over the five years ending in 1977/78, export
volume of teak sawnwood declined by 40% (63,400 sawn tons (St) to 38,700 St),
and of teak logs by 15% (53,700 Ht to 45,600 Ht). Since then, increasing
attention has been devoted to processing and marketing. In 1981/82, the
export volume of processed teak products and logs had increased to 72,000 St
and 75,000 Ht respectively. Because the wood processing industry is still



-6-
developing, Burma continues to export its best teak in log form and lower
grades as sawnwood, and uses the lowest grades of teak sawnwood for local
consumption.
24.     Burma has a strong position in world teak markets, supplying vir-
tually all natural teak logs and 70Z of natural teak conversions (sawn).
Logs and lumber from Burma are considered superior in quality to plantation
grown teak exported from Indonesia and other countries. WhiLe there is a
high demand for Burma's forest products, buyers of Burmese teak and hardwood
encounter certain difficulties such as the Burmese requirement of 1OOZ pay-
ment in advance, slow deliveries on contracts because of inadequate local
transport, costly and unreliable shipping, declining product quality, and
damage and loss in transit.
25.     The Forest Department (FD) of the Ministry of AgricuLture and Forests
(HAF) is primarily responsible for management of forests in accordance with
the Forest Act of 1941. It sets annual allowable cuts (AAC) of teak and
hardwood in each forest division in order to ensure sustainable yields from
the forest stock in perpetuity. It also has a forest plantation program
under which about 170,000 acres of teak and about 80,000 acres of other
hardwood species have been planted. The Timber Corporation (TC), a state
enterprise formed in 1950, is responsible for the extraction of teak and
hardwood logs, operation of wood processing industries, and marketing of wood
products, both within and outside Burma. The manufacturing facilities
operated by TC include about 130 teak and hardwood sawmills, plywood and
veneer mills, a waste-paper mill and small furniture factories. TC also
contracts 80 small, private firms for re-sawing lumber. All principal teak
mills are in the Rangoon area, while hardwood production is widely dispersed
in the country. TC, a large corporation with about 40,000 full-time
employees and 600 professional staff, is headed by a Managing Director and
comprises departments for extraction, marketing and milling, engineering, and
accounts. TC has managed well, through individual project units, and several
large externally-assisted development projects. TC trains its workers at a
central training school and has also set up a Forest Industry Training School
with UNDP financing.
26.     While forestry has a 30X share of all freight transport in the
country, attention to transport development has lagged. Because of the lack
of all-weather roads, and the need to make the best use of limited trucking
capacity, logs are trucked out of the forest on fair-weather roads during the
dry season and placed in interim storage near an all-weather road, from where
during the wet season they are reloaded and transported over long distances
to Rangoon.  These practices cause unnecessary delays and result in natural
deterioration and losses fro-a theft. Transport/distribution problems, mainly
of coordination, allocation of traffic to appropriate transport modes and
investment in necessary infrastructure, need to be addressed in order to
improve the quality and level of exports.
The Transport Sector
27.     Transport and communication together account for about 5Z of CDP and
3.3% of total employment. The transport system of Burma comprises about
17,000 miles of road; 2,000 route-miles of railways; 5,000 miles of navigable
waterways; one international port and eight coastal ports (called outports);



-7-
and 45 airports, of which only Rangoon airport handles international traffic.
Tte topography of the country, the location of population along rivers, and
deterioration of the railway system have resulted in river and road transport
becoming the dominant modes, while the railway is limited to serving the most
important population a-- economic centers.  The north-south transport
corridor connecting Rangoon with Mandalay and Kyitkina is the main artery of
the transport system and is served by road, river, railway, and air.
Complementiag these modes, coastal shipping services meet the demand for
transport along the coast and in the Irrawaddy river delta. In 1982-83, of
the total motorized freight ton-miles transported inside the country, an
estimated 38% was carried by water, 46% by road, and 16% by rail.
28.     Road Network.  The Ministry of Construction (HOC), with the
Construction Corporation (CC) as the executing agency, is responsible for the
administraLizu, construction, and maintenance of the primary and secondary
public road network. CC-constructed roads are all-weather roads, whereas
most of the forest roads, (about 2,200 miles between 1978/79 and 1981/82)
constructed and maintained by TC, are only passable during fair weather.
Road transport of logs and timber is undertaken by TC which operates its own
fleet, and privately owned trucks, in all numbering more than 2,000 vehicles
of six ton capacity or less, of which fewer than 70X are reported
serviceable. Log production and marketing have been adversely affected by
the poor condition of the road system. A major problem has been the lack of
proper maintenance over the years, with many roads and bridges now requiring
extensive rehabilitation.
29.     River Transport.  Inland water transport, one of the important tran-
sport modes in Burma, is provided by the state-owned Inland Water Trans,ort
Corporation (IWTC), under The Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC),
and by a large number of private operators. In 1982/83, IWTC carried about
1.9 million tons of goods traffic. It is estimated that private river craft
carry the bulk of all motorized inland water freight transport (about 16 mil-
lion tons of cargo during 1982-83). Traditionally, rafting and towing on the
main rivers has been the principal method for transporting logs in Burma. In
1982/83, about 86Z of the teak logs transported to Rangoon were rafted.
Rafting techniques result in lengthy delays and costly log losses in transit.
30.     Railways.  The rail-ways are operated by the state-owned Burma
Railways Corporation (BRC), under HOTC, and comprise about 2,000 route-miles
of meter gauge track. Movements of log and timber products by rail are
primarily concentrated on the following three lines: (a) the
Kandalay-Myitkyina line; (b) the Pyinmana/Taungdwingyi-Rangoon line, and
(c) the Prome line. An annuaL average of about 173,000 Ht of logs (91,000 Ht
teak and 82,000 Et hardwoods), and 13,000 Sc of sawn timber products were
transported by rail during 1980/81 and 1981/82, but in 1982/83 rail movements
were down to 53,000 Ht of logs (47,000 Ht teak and 6,000 St hardwoods) of
which about 20,000 Ht of logs were transported on the Myitkyina line. The
volume for 1983/84 will be substantially lower than this level because of
shortages of railway wagons. Projected future annual rail transport require-
ments on the Myitkyina line are about 80,000 Ht. Although, presently only
about 25% of all timber products are transported directly by rail to Rangoon,
railways are essential for moving logs from areas relatively distant from
rivers and in places where only rail is viable. Severe capacity constraints
on timber transport by rail have resulted in log and timber accumulation at



-8-
stations and depots along the railway lines, particularly along the Myitkyina
line.
31.     Ocean Shiping.  Ocean Shipping is handled by Burma's Five Star
Shipping Corporation EBFSSC), which owns and operates 10 coastal and 14 ocean-
going vessels (eight of which are above 10,000 dwt), and charters a number of
foreign-flag vessels. Freight carried on BFSSC's own vessels in ocean and
coastal trade amounted to about 950,000 tons in 1981/82. Although most log
and timber exports are carried by BFSSC, only about 37% of Burma'r foreign
trade is carried by its own or chartered vessels.
32.     Ports.  The porta are administered by the Burma Ports Corporation
(BPC).   Export shipments through the Port of Rangoon have averaged about
250,000 tons of logs and 110,000 tons of lumber annually over the past five
years.  Heavy timbers and long lumber for export are transported by trucks
from sawmills to shipside in loose form, while short lumoer is steel banded
and scantlings floated in rafts to shipside, or transported by truck to
dockside. Also, logs for export are transported by truck or floated by river
to shipside. Loading of logs and sawn timber is slow and inefficient, lead-
ing to delays and dxmage.
TranspGrt Administration, Planning, and Coordination
33.    MOTC is responsible for formulating and implementing government
transportation policies, except for highway planning and construction which
are the responsibility of MOC. MOTC overviews the operations of its
agencies, namiely BPC, BRC, BFSSC, IWTC, and the Road Transport Corporation.
MOTC approves the budgets oi these transport agencies in consultation with
the Ministry of Planning and Finance; appoints top level officers; formulates
and implements tariff policies and enforces relevant regulations in the
operation of the sector. Transport planning is undertaken within the context
of overall national planning, based on objectives established by the
Government. In recent years, the Government's planning function has improved
because of a better data base and means for progress reporting and project
evaluation.  The general operation of the transport sector has also improved
as a result of the Government's policy to enable state enterprises to operate
increasingly on commercial basis. To coordinate movement of all goods, a
Central Movement Coordination Comittee (CMCC), establishes commodity
priorities and prepares a four-year plan for all transport modes. CHCC is
chaired by the Deputy Minister of MOTC, and its members represent the tran-
sport agencies. The main aim for creating CMCC was to move government goods
expeditiously and at the lowest cost to the economy. However, the system
does not function effectively; traffic allocation is based on priorities
among commodities (with rice, for example, having absolute priority over all
other goods), and on a certain order of availability of different public
carriers, without due consideration of the most economic mode for different
cargoes.
Project Implementation Performance
34.     In Forestry and Transport sectors, Burma has received five IDA
credits (Cr. 493-BA, Cr. 949-BA, Cr. 1114-BA, Cr. 1444-BA and Cr. 1253-BA)
in recent years: two forestry projects, two wood industries projects and one
construction industry project. A project performance audit on the First



-9-
Forestry Project has been prepared. Initial implementation problems relating
to consultant hiring, vehicle procurement and diesel supply have been over-
come and project unit output is now excellent. Consequently, the project
economic rate of return is estimated to be above 50Z, and the net present
value (at 10% discount rate) is 18% higher than SAR estimates. Benefitting
from the First Forestry Project experience, progress of the Second Forestry
Project (effective December 20, 1979) La6 been excellent and total log
extraction volume to-date is ahead of appraisal target. To cope with exces-
sive hardwood log inventories, TC is increasing hardwood milling capacity and
also reducing hardwood extraction to match existing milling capacity. TC is
making excellent progress under the First Wood Industries Project (effective
June 25, 1981). All civil works are completed and most of the equipment has
been installed. Problems with local supply of cement and fuel are being
addressed. Project construction is expected to be completed on schedule in
1985. The Second Wood Industries Project (effective December 24, 1984) has
got off to a very satisfactory start. The Construction Industry Project
(effective September 20, 1982), designed to improve CC's institutional and
road building capacity, is being implemented satisfactorily though somewhat
behind schedule. Savings under the project are being utilized for road
construction materials.
35.     The following lessons were learned from these projects:
(a) The establishment of project implementation units within TC proved
very effective. It helped in starting geographic decentralization
of this large corporation with operations spread throughout Burma,
and at the same time it allowed better cross-functional (logging and
milling) coordination and integration at regional levels;
(b) New and more efficient operating systems for log extraction and
transport were developed under the First Forestry Project and are
being used in other areas. Decentralized and operationally oriented
accounting systems are helping to improve decision-making and cost
control at regional levels. Reporting and auditing targets under
the First Forestry Project were too ambitious and more realistic
targets are now being used;
(c) Due to lack of experience, TC was unable to recruit good quality
international consultants and supervise and coordinate their
activities.  Consequently, technical assistance design has been
modified to obtain the services of one consulting firm which then
provides, supervises and coordinates the many individual specialists
required;
(d) The forest feasibility studies prepared under the First Forestry
Project provided detailed background information which formed the
basis for future development in the forestry sector;
(e) Though overall equipment procurement was satisfactory, in some cases
problems with incompatible equipment were experienced. The First
Wood Industries Project, therefore, experimented with larger bidding
packages and turn-key contracts. The experience so far is very
favorable; the fear that larger packages might lessen competition
and increase costs was not warranted. The approach has helped ensure



-10-
equipment compatibility and greater technical input from suppliers in
design, installation and start-up. TC also agreed to allocate funds
to advertise more widely through trade journals in different
countries. The response has been very favorable, producing more
bids, keener competition and lower cost; and
(f)  The overseas and local training programs have been successful in
familiarizing TC and CC personnel with the latest developments in
technology and made these agencies more outward looking and receptive
to new ideas. This is facilitating a faster modernization of the
sector than would have been possible otherwise.
36.     Overall, project implementation performance of TC, CC and the Forest
Department has been good. Lessons learned from earlier projects are being
used in further improving performance under ongoing projects. These lending
operations have achieved modest improvements in institutional and financial
aspects of the entities involved.  Transport components under previous and
ongoing forestry projects have concentrated on feeder roads, and Limited
investments have been made in the railways. The proposed project would
encourage improved coordination among transport and user agencies, assist in
developing and implementing more rational traffic plans for movement of
timber, and provide funds to meet urgent short-term needs of the transport
agencies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed project was identified in October 1982 and appraised
in February 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Timber Distribution
Project" (Report No. 5461-BA, dated May 20, 1985) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations, preceded by technical discussions, were held in
Washington, D.C. from April 24 to April 26, 1985. The Burmese delegation was
led by His Excellency U. Sein Ya, Deputy Minister for Transport and
Communications. A timetable of key events relating to the project and spe-
cial conditions of the proposed Credit are given in Anne: III.
Project Objectives
38.     Transport capacity in general, and the movement of timber in
particular, is deteriorating at a juncture when Burmese exports are facing a
major setback. The Government and IDA concentrated their review on the
transport problems of rice and timber, the major export commodities. The
review, completed in 1982, concluded that each commodity poses unique dis-
tribution problems that should be addressed separately. In the case of
timber, institutional and operational improvements were urgently needed,
particularly to meet the distribution needs of several externally aided
ongoing projects. The project is designed to help meet the following
objectives:
(a) achiete significant improvements in the planning and allocation
of transport services concerned with the movement of timber;



-11-
(b)  arrest further deterioration of the existing timber transportl
distribution capacity, with a subsequent improvement in timber
quality, quantity, and reliability of supply and export;
(c)  reduce costs of timber transport, handling, and storage; and
(d)  test new timber transport systems.
39.     Integrated System Approach.  Tackling purely transport problems by
themselves would not be sufficient to improve the flow of timber in Burma.
There has been a widening of the gap in recent years between annual volume of
timber extracted and subsequently transported, with consequent increases in
the volume of logs piled up at rail heads, river depots, and extraction
sites. The inability to transport logs from these locations for long periods
results in deterioration in the value of the logs and loss through theft.
Prior to transferring this upcountry build-up to Rangoon, trans-shipment
arrangements at Rangoon would have to be improved. The project's components
have been selected on the basis of an adequate flow analysis and would help
to close the gaps between points of origin and destined markets by adopting
solutions that take into account the interdependence of project components.
Thus, the transport related provisions for increasing rail capacity, routing
logs via alternative transport modes whenever more economical to do so,
building strategic road connections, and testing of new transport modes are
balanced by related provisions for expanding and improving log depots and
rail yards and provision of construction and handling equipment.
Project Description
40.     The project comprises the following components:
A. Project Coordination Group (PCG). Establish PCG, within CMCC, to
plan and coordinate activities related to the movement of timber
(para 42).
B. Comprehensive Study: An in-depth examination of all elements
involved in improving efficiency of timber distribution over the long
term (para 43).
C. Technical Assistance and Training for (i) strengthening PCG; (ii) new
timber transport systems to be tested under the project; and
(iii) operators specializing iT log handling.
D. The Hyitkyina Corridor Rail-Road System
Ci) Myitkyina - Naba-Katha Rail and Road Connections. Improvements
to accommodate increased log traffic by provision of additional
railway infrastructure and rehabilitation of rolling stock, and
new fastener techniques for prevention of pilferage of critical
brake components.
(ii) Wuntho-Irrawaddy river Road Connection. Upgrading of existing
roads to all-weather standard and provision of construction
materials and equipment;



-12-
(iii) Prome and Pyinmana Rail Lines. Provision of additional rolling
stock and rehabilitation of ezisting rolling stock for log
transport;
(iv) Improvements to the Katha and Sagaing log depot facilities; log
loading and unloading equipment;
(v) Consolidation of 21 loading points into nine stations on
Mandalay-Myitkyina route and provision of necessary facilities;
(vi) Redesign of Sagaing rail yard, improvements to the depot yard,
and provision of log loading and unloading equipment; and
(vii) Yard improvements at the large Okkyin log depot.
E.  Sawn Timber.  Provision of additional railway rolling stock to
facilitate transport of sawn timber needs of the construction
industry.
F. Containerization. Introduction of container operations for forest
products at sawmills and in Rangoon port.
C. Barge System.  Introduction of barge transport for the movement of
logs, to be tested on a feasibility basis, on the Irrawaddy-Chindwin
river system.
H.  Shiploading.  Provision of tug and barges for transport of timber
products to shipside for improved shiploading of logs in Rangoon
port.
Cost-Effective Innovations
41.    The project would introduce the following innovations in Burma:
(a) IWTC Barge System Trials. Rafting and river towing of sinkers (tim-
ber that does not float), particularly of high-value species such as
green teak and padauk, is costly and time-consuming. For example,
during 1984, Monywa depot on the Chindwin river had about 4,300 Ht
of padauk logs awaiting to be rafted. Projected production levels
under the project would increase the depot's inventory, and cause
damage to stored padauk, unless the existing river transport mode is
utilized more efficiently. The project provides, on a trial basis,
use of a push tug and five barges to transport padauk and sawn timber
on the Chindwin river.
(b) Use of Containers. The new container-handling facilities in Rangoon
port, supported by the IDA Ports III Project (Credit 1372-BA), could
handle forest products if movements and shipments are containerized.
Container operations would involve positioning containers directly at
sawmills and providing loading and unloading facilities at the mills
and Rangoon port.
(c) Special Fasteners. BRC estimates that only 1OZ of its rolling stock
for hauling timber has vacuum brakes because of pilferage of brake



-13-
components. The installation of special fasteners that are used
elsewhere in the world would be introduced and would ensure against
further pilferage of vacuum brake components.
(d)  Movement Coordination.  PCG's role in improving timber movement would
also demonstrate the effectiveness of such CMCC sub-groups in coor-
dinating and planning the movement of other commodities.
42.     Project Coordination Group.  An important aspect of the project, on
an experimental basis, is the creation of a sub-group within CMCC for plan-
ning independently the movement of a key commodity, and to demonstrate its
effectiveness and potential applicability of comparable sub-groups to other
commodities. Such a sub-group, namely, a Project Coordination Group (PCG)
has been established to plan and manage distribution of timber. Since PCC
comprises representatives of all operational agencies involved in movement of
timber and also the Timber Corporation (TC), the principal user, it would
achieve closer cooperation and interaction between these agencies at a tech-
nical working level (traffic managers). To ensure close coordination among
project implementing agencies, the government would maintain the PCG, with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (section 3.04va) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA). PCG would be responsible for
medium-to-long term planning of timber transport, as well as for solving the
day-to-day problems affecting the system. PCC would identify urgent timber
transport demands in terms of quantity, location and time, define priorities
and the most economic way of satisfying the demand, and ensure efficient
functioning of the system. Technical assistance to strengthen PCC, test new
timber transport systems and handle equipment as well as training (including
visits overseas, university courses for about 20 staff members from concerned
agencies) have been provided under the project. In line with project
objectives, PCG's alternative plans for effective movement of timber have
been reviewed and found satisfactory for the implementation of the project.
PCG would initiate implementation of these plans by January 31, 1987. (Para
3, Schedule 5 of the draft DCA).
43.     Comprehensive Study.  While immediate timber distribution problems
would be tackled under the project, a Comprehensive Study would be undertaken
to examine, in depth, all the elements involved in improving the efficiency
of timber distribution over the long term. The Study, which would require
about 50 man-months of consultants' services, would: (a) examine mediumrand-
long term constraints affecting the distribution of timber and recommend an
indicative, time-phased and priority-ranked investment program to relieve
current transport bottlenecks and to make distribution of timber more
economical; (b) outline measures for improving organization, management, and
planning and operation mechanisms in each transport agency; (c) make specific
recommendations on measures to improve coordination among various transport
agencies; and (d) review prior studies in forestry and transport sectors and
relate findings to timber distribution problems. Draft terms of reference
for the Comprehensive Study were agreed with the Government and funds for-
mally earmarked for it under the UNDP Third Umbrella Project. It was agreed
that IDA would act as the executing agency and invite external firms to
submit proposals for conducting the Study. Necessary counterpart staff to
assist in conducting the Study would be arranged by PCC. Consultants would
be employed by December 31, 1985 and a draft report prepared by
December 31, 1987. After review and comment by IDA, the final report would



-14-
be completed by December 31, 1988 and by June 30, 1989 an action program
would be initiated to implement recoomendations agreed between the Covernment
and IDA. (Para 2, Schedule 5 of the draft DCA).
Project Implementation and Monitoring
44.    The project would be implemented by MOTC, acting through PCG. While
day-to-day implementation would be carried out by MOTC's various agencies
(BRC, IDTC) and by CC and TC, the overall responsibility of IOTC would ensure
effective control of and coordination among the transport agencies concerned.
By October 1, 1985, KOTC would enter into arrangements satisfactory to IDA,
with BRC, IWTC, CC and TC for implementation of respective project components
(Section 3.04(b) of the draft DCA). MOTC would retain temporary ownership of
the assets procured and also bear the cost of rehabilitation of equipment
under the project. The operating and maintenance costs of assets placed into
service, and operated.- by the respective transport agencies (BRC and IWTC),
would be borne by TC through payment of normal tariffs which would cover
these costs. Assets acquired under the project and assigned to TC would be
operated and maintained by TC. Project roads would be maintained as part of
the national highway system. MOTC would make arrangements satisfactory to
IDA, by October 31, 1985, with concerned agencies for the operation and
maintenance of project assets (Section 3.03(a) of the draft DCA). Assets
financed under the project, and temporarily owned by MOTC, are not expected
to become fully operational until around 1991, five years after initiation of
the project. The question of recovery of capital cost from TC, the main user
and beneficiary, is not an imediate and pressing issue and would be
addressed under the Comprehensive Study, which would be completed earlier,
namely, by mid-1988. The Government, in consultation with IDA, would estab-
lish the most appropriate capital cost recovery system.
45.    Operational targets have been set, in agreement with the Government,
for increasing the efficiency of timber distribution system. Currently,
about 3-1/2 years' production of timber is stored at forestry extraction
sites, and about one year's export volume is stored at Rangoon port. In
order that the increased transport capacity does not lead to further stock-
piling around Rangoon, the timber stocked at Rangoon port should not exceed,
at any time, half of the estimated annual arrivals. Further, timber stocks
at forestry extraction sites and road and railway timber depots should be
reduced co reasonable levels over a period of about seven years (Para 1,
Schedule 5 of the draft DCA). In order to make the best use of the limited
transport capacity and the available log handling and loading equipment and
associated facilities, the project would consolidate 21 loading stations,
spread throughout BRC's national network, to about 9 stations and augment
necessary equipment and facilities (Para 4, Schedule 5 of the draft DCA).
Cost and Financing
46.    The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$29 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of about US$17 million
equivalent. The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.75 million would cover foreign
costs of US$16.5 million and local costs of US$1.25 million. The
Comprehensive Study (para 43) would be financed under the UNDP Third Umbrella
Project. Contingency provision is calculated using an overall physical
contingency of about 9.0Z. Local and foreign price contingencies are derived



-15-
from March, 1985 projections and are related to the nature of goods involved
under the project. Price contingencies are based on estimated foreign cost
escalations of 7.0X for 1985, 7.0% for 1986, and 6.0% for 1987 to 1989, and
local cost escalations of 6.0% annually.
Procurement and Disbursements
47.     All items financed by IDA would be procured by the respective
agencies, on behalf of MOTC, through international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with IDA guidelines except for (a) the training and technical
assistance component, which would be procured in accordance with the
guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency; (b) procurement from particular sources of
identified proprietary items, under license or for continued standardization
of equipment; and (c) contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or less, where the
advantage of ICB would clearly be outweighed by the administrative burden
thereof. The total amount of contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or less not
covered by ICB is estimated to be less than US$1.0 million.
48.     Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Arrangements
(Estimated Cost in US$ Million)
Project Element                            Procurement Method
Departmental
ICB    LCB    LIT   Process /1  Other       Total
Civil Works                                     2.12                 2.12
(-)                 (-)
Plant & Machinery       19.70   1.40   3.50      1.28               25.88
(13.45) (1.40) (2.50)    (-)                (17.35)
Training & T.A.                                           0.40 /2    0.40
(0.40)     (0.40)
Comprehensive Study                                       0.60 /3    0.60
C-)        (-)
Project Total          19.70   1.40   3.50      3.40      1.00      29.00
IDA Total             (13.45) (1.40) (2.50)    (-)       (0.40)    (17.75)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate proposed IDA financing.  Estimated
total costs include taxes and duties.
/1 Railway forces to be used for railway track work and highway forces to be
used for highway improvement work.
/2 According to IDA guidelines.
73 To be financed by UNDP/Government.
49.     Disbursements.  Disbursements are expected to start in late 1985 and
be completed by September 30, 1989. The closing date of the proposed project
would be March 31, 1990. Disbursements under the project would be made
against (a) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported items; (b) 100%
of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items; (c) 65% of local cost of
locally procured items, off-the-shelf; and (d) 100% of the foreign and local
costs of training and technical assistance.



-16-
Environment
50.     None of the proposed works in the project is expected to have an
adverse effect on the environment. The log transfer system by barge and
container operations in and around the city of Rangoon would reduce conges-
tion in the city.
Economic Justification
51.     The proposed project is in line with both the country's and IDA's
objectives in the forestry subsector and transport sector and is designed
to help improve transportation and distribution of timber by establishing a
mechanism for improved planning and allocation of traffic, upgrading
transport capacity of the various transport modes involved, introducing new,
more efficient and cost-effective methods for timber handling and movement,
and improving transport agencies' operations and maintenance capability.
Quantifiable benefits from the proposed project would accrue mainly in the
form of savings in transport (88%) and handling (12%) costs.
52.     TC would be the main beneficiary because the proposed project aims
at: (i) facilitating the movement of timber in the country and for export;
and (ii) identifying solutions to major issues affecting the
transport/distribution of timber through the Comprehensive Study. Also,
transport agencies would be able to provide improved services to satisfy
traffic demand adequately.
53.     Economic evaluations have been undertaken separately for the main
components. No separate economic evaluation has been carried out for
improvement of the Okkyin log depot, the Comprehensive Study, and technical
assistance and training, all of which amounc to 4% of total project costs.
However, these costs were included, without quantifying their benefits, in
the calculation of the economic rate of return for the entire project. The
economic analysis assumes a period of investment of three years, followed by
an operating period of 20 years.
54.     The project's overall economic return is 35%, including the cost of
components not separately evaluated. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a
decrease in benefits of 20Z would redur.e the overall rate of return to 25%,
while a 20X increase in costs would reduce it to 26Z; a combination of a 10%
increase in cost and 10% decrease in benefits would yield a 26Z rate of
return.
Risks
55.     All project components, including innovative measures (para 41),
involve proven technology. Nevertheless, technical assistance and training
provided under the project would help minimize technical risks. Project
implementation would require coordination of activities among several
agencies. There are possible risks from inadequate project implementation
but mechanisms have been proposed (for example, MOTC retaining control of
project implementation through PCG) to minimize such risks.



-17-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
57.     Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
given in Section III of Annex III.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
59.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 30, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-18-                                          ANNEA    I
Page 1 of 5
RXUM - IocIAL INKArcY OU
WS_~~~~I_%
ROUT                 HST 1333 RSDEA!) lb
lffO1     19701                      10 DIW  I *         ERO. bLK I NcxOr
lm&  I-noi     uTnI:%mk    A8744 PACIFI          A48144 PACIFIC
mu            Q. m)
TOM                                676.6     676.6        676.6
ASEICULTURaL                       104.0     108.0       104.0
do mm CAUP  C                          40.0      60.0       190.0           278.6                101.2
mr c          1 m cuN
(CILOSI  at OIL EQUIVALENT)         41.0      500         5.0            272.0                 567.3
OMPATXD AND YTL S21=22C
POPULATIOK,HID-TZAK (TmUSAM)    21780.0   27000.0      3482.0
DIN  POPUXATION (0Z  O TAL)         19.3      2L8         28.3            21.7                  34.7
POPMAT4710 PROnZCTION
POPMATIC I  MRr 200D 0a1)                               52.9
s2ATICn FPOPULATOIO (NUL)                               115.0
POPUIATION NONEIIIS                                       L.8
POPULATTIK UISITT
PE SQ. M8.                        32.2      39.9        50.4           166.6                 261.9
PE SQ. EL AURL LUD               209.4     250.0       327.7           345.5                1735.1
POPULATIOW ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YUS                         38.2      40.3         41.0           35.8                  39.0
15-64 13                          59.2      56.3        55.4            59.8                  57.6
65 ANED A61O3                      2.6       3.3         3.8             4.3                   3.3
POPUATION CREIZE NE (C)
TOTL                               1.9       2.1         2.!             1.9                   2.3
URBAN                              3.7       3.9         3.9             4.1                   4.3
IIIE B1111 RAUE (PER US1)           42.9      40.1        38.0            27.7                 30.1
cauoDEA TH RAIE CPU THrS)           21.0      16.8        12.9            10.1                  9.5
9MS SEPRODnuCTIOu RATE               2.8       2.8         2.4             1.0                   2.0
FAMILY PLANEIIG     -In
ACCEPTORS. ANNUL (1300)             ..        ...
1USRS (CZ OF LAUD   )f)             ..         .2 ..                      ..                  52.7
IN'X OF FOOD PIOD. Pu CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0     101.0       113.0           112.8                 123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (ZOF 0RIQUIRUWTS)        96.0      106.0       113.0           97.7                 114.4
PROTEI  (GRAMS PU DAY)            52.0      57.0        63.0            56.8                  57.0
OF U0ICH ANUIAL AID PULSE       11.0      Il.ZO        12.0 c         14.9                  14.1
CHILD (AGrS 1-4) DLI RA WE          24.7      18.3        11.8             9.8                  7.2
LIFE EPECT. AT I1R1 (YEARS)         43.5      48.5        56.6            60.0                 60.4
IIFANT MOUI. RATE (PUR mOlzS)      158.0     127.9        95.6            83.8                 66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WAXER (IPOP)
TOTAL                               ..       18.0        17.0 Id        32.9                  37.0
DRUAN                               ..      35.0        30.0 7Td        70.9                  54.8
RURAL                               ..       13.0       13.0 Id         22.1                  26.4
ACCESS TO EVEI DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUMATIN)
TOTAL                               ..       35.0        33.0 Is        18.1                  41.3
UnBAI                               ..      45.0        38.0 7r         72.8                  47.4
RUAL                                .        32.0       32.0 e           4.6                  33.3
POPULTIONI PU PRYSICIAN          15560.0    8790.0      4660.0 If       3484.2                7749.4
POP. PEu NUING PERStN             8520.0 Js ?380.0      4750.0 W        4793.1                2460.4
POP. PEu DOSPITAL UDM
TOrAL                           1520.0    1170.0       1100.0 Ie       1066.5               10U4.2
IRUID                            330.0 /I  350.0       370.0 7-        298.0                 651.2
R1RAL                               ..   15220.0       7160.0 7c      5993.4                2594.6
AD1ISS0XIS PEU EOSPTAL IM             ..        .0          ..              ..                  27.0
AVERAE SZIE OF EDUSIOLD
TOAL-                              4.6        ..
RaN                                 ..        ..          .                ..
RMRAL                               ..        ..
AVUArZ N0. OF PERSONS/jOOS
TOTAL                               ..        -'
1RBAN                               ..        ..
RIUAL                               ..        ..
ACESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DIiEL1S)
TOTAL                               ..        ..
RURL                                ..        ..          .                ..



-19-                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BMWu,                  - SOCIL NDITORS DATA 
311344                             BUREMCE GORUPS (IIEIGUTE  AVERAGrB) La
IOIT                 (MUST RECENT EThE) b
Rhim          UN 71ic1S            MIDDLE DKCQE
19601k    1970k    ISSIAL b    AsIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
ADSTED 333011N3  RATIos
PRDUA:  TOMAL                      56.0       67.0        84.0            97.4                  102.0
NAZZ                     61.0      92.0         87.0 /e        110.5                 105.9
FUZALE                   52.0      O3.0         81.0            83.7                  98.2
SECODZNe TOTAL                     10.0      21.0         20.0            35.9                   46.0
RZmZ                      3.O      26.0         22.0            44.6                  48.7
13(4Z1                    7.0      17.0         18.0 7;         26.8                  63.1
OCATIOAL (Z Ol SECONDA)               0.5       0.8          0.1            2.2                   17.5
PUPIL-TErnAM RATIO
P7a11Q                             42.0       47.0        54.0k           38.!                   31.B
SECOWDAU                           40.0       32.0        37.0 e          18.7                   23.5
ADULT LITUACT RATE CZ)               59.7 &        , ,   65.9               53.4                   72.9
PASSIR  CAR/TOD     P                 0.8       1.1          L3 /h           0.9                   10.1
RADIO RECE1TBRSIO POE                 5.3       14.8        21.0           IIL                   113.6
TV U7VCR SD POP  -                     ..         ..          ..             15.7                 50.1
SPAPCT (DM1LY GENERAL
7_TZIST") CIRCULLTIOR
PM  TIUSAND POPMATIOI              11.3       15.3        10.1 if          16.2                  53.9
CIXMIA ANUIAL ATTDANECAPA             6.0 /I    7.9 /j        ..             3.6                   3.4
TOTAL LUO  PFORCZ ( M)            10404.0   11577.0      13858.0                
FKALZ (PER)                        40.1       36.9        35.4            33.3                   33.5
AGRXCUTIRE (PC )                     ..       69.9        67.1             69.6                  52.2
IDUSTn (PczT)                        ..        8.0         9.8             ISS                  17.9
PARTICIPATIO RATE (PERCEN)
TOTAL                              C7.8       42.9        39.7            42.6                   38.7
RAZ1                               5S.0       54.7        51.4             54.7                  50.9
FEMALD                             37.8       31.3        28.1            29.8                   26.6
ECOSORIC DCPTIICr RATlD               0.9        1.0         1.1             1.0                   1.1
33133 132IMTE13O
PERW OF PRIVATE 110CIE
RECEIVD Br
IIIE 56 or OU        DS            14.6         ..           -               ..                  22.2
HIRES  20Z or  "O551D6              4.7       40.0 /        .               ..                  48.0
1ANES? 20? 0F 2DUSXLDS              6.57      8. 0.                         ..                   6.4
LO1E  40? Or IODUNOLES             16.5 7i   21.0 2         ..              ..                   15.5
ESTIMD  ABSOLUM POV3XT XMcw
LVL CUSS PER CAPTA)
URBKAN                               ,          ,,        94.0            133.9                 188.6
RUAL                                 ..         ..        68.0 k          111.6                 152.0
ESTIMATED RELATI  POVwT XNCUM
lZVEL (US PER CAITZA)
R..                                             ..        50.0/             ..                  177.9
RUAL                                 ..         ..        36.0 7F           ..                  164.6
ESTSMADU POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
r                iovEr rcum lIEr. CZ)
UIUI*                                ..         ..        40.0              b 43.8               23.4
RURAL                                ..         ..        40.0           51.7                   37.7
Ngr AVAILABL
NOT E S
I/  DI sop averagsfor each Ifdicator are popUlatio-ugbted arlItmtic mana. Covera  of cntrles mmg the
indlcators depands on avallability of data and la not unifam.
/b  Unla  otbsrula. noted, -ftta for 1960  refer to my year betwen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' betwen 1969 and
1971; ad data for 'Mat RAcet Fatimate between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Jd 1976;    1975; /f 1979; ,A 1962;  b 1978; A  1964; LI 1972; /k 1958, 1angsam only.
JUNe, 1984



IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
'4 8 01 0   'Kl1   } 00t 5~~~~~~~~~~  ti *'' ' I  l' -    [
h ii !a 41 ~14    fil.414t
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
I            S~~~~~~~~I



-21-                            P        4 of 5
676,531 eq ha          35.7 milLion (1M)                               53 POT eq he
Rate of graet: 2.0S (frm 1912 to 1983)         192 PMr q he of megbla lau
Crude brth rate (per '000):                37.2           lopeltlas per p&yaicia:            4,558
Crude death rate (per '000)                13.6           Pobplatim per wmpLtal bed:         1,407
Infant mortAlity (per '000 live birthl):
INC1K DIsTII1o  (1972)                         D15                2OSF LAW tIU         P (75)
S of national income, highet quintile:       40           S cend by top 141 of  _o:             42
Iest quintile:         J           S   e by mllest 6   of d ewis:        26
ACCSS TO IPIS VATURAl3                                    ACCIU TO XN    cCnC   (197
Z of population - urban:                   30.0           Z of population:                     6.6
rural:                   13.0
Total:                   17.0
Calorie intake an I of reuuxets:            106           Adult literacy urte:                 671
Per capita protein intake (grin per day):   59            Wieray echool emeolimt:              1
MS XATIONAL PROUCT IN 111983                              ANUL I=  or Gom  (CZ 
Mat maket prices              6,124    101.0                  -5.7             6.0         5.9
Gross capital fo.mation       1.344     22.0                   24.1            5.7        15.3
Groes  atigul aving           1.003     16.                    10.7           11.5        11.3
Foreign saviag ^                341      5.6                   36.6           1.0         15.5
eprts of goods. mg              491      5.0                   -5.7           16.5         5.1
Xmports of goods. N             790    12.9                    13.6            6.7         35
OWT, LUJA ORC9, AMD
PnOUCTrWIm  IN 712983
!.oIue  Ad         1      Lsubor Force         T.A. PMr gdur
-  illige    -3           KLlo    _L_
Agriculture _/                 2,99%    43A              9.6      66.3             312
Xnduatzy A/                      101    12.9             1.5      10.3             5u
Bervicetrade 2e3 3              j       iLZ             A        iAL& A/
TOTAL                     6.192  100.0             14.5    100.0             427
Puli Uect.r                  Umio      _
Prato Millio    Z of  W        EteilWlim         i...
m            inu               nm    BR
Curant receipts                      8,179 1/       16.5 f/          6,595          13.9
Current ezpeudit-a                   6,1m2          13.7             6,640          13A
Current aurple                       1,377           2.8               255           0.5
Capital ezpenditures                 8,053 &I       16.2 X/          2,157           4A
Reterual Assistance (gross)          2.550           5.1
'All data for M3 (1983/11) are revisd etimates of the Govermut of  emz.
a/ Moat recent eatimtes, referring to any yea betwee  1979 ad 1981.
hi Defined as anternal current account balane excludin grant-.
3j  Muclniss livestock, fiary, ad forestry.
A/  Incudes miing power, and co,etructiom.
/ Icwludes  arker not elsewher upcified.
Z/ Inludes cozra_t urplusldeficit of public corporatione.
Z/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
uot available



. -22- r~o 
* A 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                              , I
um   ~-Tv MIAM                       n         ml   km   im    nul   im    1366
|E anti" antstamn at               NET.     KW.       VW.       Kw.       NW.      Na:.      MST.
mem   n quami busy                              6,631     3.017     3.619    11,213    13,135    14,737    17,011
Oak heElt to Paiul learn                        6,530    7,166    *.30    103,    13,407   15,7is    is a
huh bails ta Pvt.        mod                    1,706    1733       1,53       1,51    1,743     1,607    1,715
Coopeative katega
busy ad QOmi Nee  am   e of GM                   214       25.2      2.1       21.0      20.7      31.5      34.1
Cawsmus  Price ludm at sense"
(1373 * 100)                                  100.0    106.1    107.2        107.5    112.0    l1.O    116.5
ummal Pereintsg Chane  Lu:
C"su   J*PrimeIiezat Iagoe.                    -4.0       6.1       1.0        0.3      4.2       5.6       0A
louk c.dit to Publi  sector                     5A        P.S      25.0       21.1     23.3      16.5      16.2
Ban Credit to Private ad                       14.6       1.3      -4.3      -0.1       5.9      -3.5       6.6
Cooperative leacts
naimuan or PAfl5                                                     naiunraML      rt (VTs) Kilf             1
ma  ma  .a                                                      IJLW            L
mrta (mCU)                            515.0   437.t   491.0               lie ad Rice Products              170       38.6
aets (CGM)                             M6.5    5O.7   790.0               Teok & Nmrdod                     113        25.6
Reaearce Ralauce                      -365.5  -512.9  -219.0              Pause cd Amo                       28         64
Same Natal. and Drum .             37        A
AaiM&I iFadstuf             _      10        2.3
not Factor Zic..                       -22.0   -4.7   -67.0               All Other Ca_mditia1
mot C_raC TraSfer                       17.6   2D.7    25.0
iOdA                        41        100.0
Cureast Accaot Dlemac                -370.9  -535.3  -341.0
Offjc'al Great Aid                     5S.A     794      76.0
ngt uz l_m   (34) /                     47.6   332.3   242.0                                                  tlMi
Diber_aits                           431.1   401.0   328.0
tapsymmmto                            83.5    68.2    66.0              Otstatdlug and Disbursed               2.221.8
Xhort-tezn Captid                         0    -0.7         0
Ortatandicl ig, Inludiu
Other Nadi= & Lon Tem Capital St    -77.4    21.3    21.0                   PAdiebrsed                           3,360.3
Overall haid                           -42.1  -102.5    -2.0
cak Eaete. (_ad-March)                 221.7    70.7    98.1
Not aPescrya  (cad-March)              158.4      L.5     4.9           EnTAUCE P61rK  t           3 U2IS
Rati of debt servic to efports of         29.6
soots and services C(zeludig w'
111 tndf Celmandr year)
an 1.00 - 5 6.51
1IS 1.00 - X 7.A
zmrIYew)Dea U     Maroh 31. 195 (Ut xilIlse)
8  1.0 - X 3.51                                                                                           zm
US 1.00 - X 7.78
O1uttanding ad DIsbwra                        315.5
136  (U. of Caledr Y_ar)
GA  1.00 - K 6.51                                                       lndisburemi                                    277.6
DE 1.00 - K 8.22
Oatsta ,dsg  i-lud
ha of 3.1. 31~ 1353                                                        11Dai     ddr                      -        64M.1
8U 1.00 - K 8.51
1w8 1.00 - K 3.4
A   EaPorted - thIPem  Main
h    1 s ct atie  reported to the WiU lanks debt z_eetig "ton.
CM).
Sovth Asia Pbograms Dpartomnt
Disai  A
Narch 31, 198



-23-
ANNEX IT
STATUS OF IBRDIIDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million
Loan or                                              Amount (Less cancellation)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose            IBRD    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and seven credits fully disbursed         33.1    119.4        -
597      1975   Burma   Livestock                    -      7.5        0.61
642      1976   Burma   Paddyland Development        -     30.0        5.95
745      1977   Burma   Seed Development             -      5.5        0.12
835      1978   Burma   Paddyland Development I'   -       34.5       16.58
879      1978   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation        -      4.5        0.93
949      1979   Burma   Forestry II                  -     35.0       15.61
958      1979   Burma   Telecomuunications II        -     35.0        8.78
1031      1980   Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam      -      90.0      30.55
1092 b/   1981   Burma   Grain Storage               -      23.0       6.75
1114 b/   1981   Buma   Wood Industries I            -      32.0       6.70
1245 b/   1982   Burma   Power I                     -      80.0      44.82
1253 bi   1982   Burma   Construction Industry I    -       20.0       8.54
1315 bl   1983   Burma   Tank Irrigation             -      19.0      13.31
1372 b/   1983   Burma   Third Port Project          -      50.0      45.87
1381 b/   1983   Burma   Groundwater Project I       -      14.0      12.85
1385 b/   1983   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation II   -        9.0       8.33
1425 b/   1984   Burma   Textile Finishing Plant    -       29.7      27.78
1444 b/   1984   Burma   Wood Industries II          -      25.0      23.49
Total                                    33.1   663.1
of which has been repaid               33.1      1.1
Total now outstanding                      -    662.0
Amount sold                      2.7
of which has been repaid       2.7       -
Total now held by IBRD & IDA a/            -    662.0
Total Undisbursed                                          277.57
a/ Prior to'exchange adjustments.
b/ IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits. Principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations as shown in the President's Reports,
and undisbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1985.



-24-
AMNE III
Page  of 2
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTIOM PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to Prepare the Project
2 years
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project
Ministry of Transport and Comuunications
(c) Date First Presentation to the Bank
October, 1982
(d) Date of Deitarture of Appraisal Mission
February, 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations
April 26, 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness
October, 1985
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action
Nil



-25-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) PCG to complete a review of more urgent transport
problems, prepare transport plans and initiate
implementation (para 42).
(b) Undertake a Comprehensive Study and initiate a
program of action to implement recommendations
(para 43).
(c) Establish operations and maintenance arrangements
between HOTC and concerned transport agencies
(para 44).
(d) Drawdown timber stocks at Rangoon port, forestry
extraction sites and timber depots in accordance
with an agreed schedule (para 45).
Ce) Consolidate loading stations (para 45).
T



C                       ~~~~~ ~~INDIA r
BURMA        
!1              -t 
~~a,Lr3)                       ,~~~~~~~~   KACHINjCHN
~             TIWILSD    \                           _i
-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA
I-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..:                                   .
*            . _ X. A f
X.ARA .KAEP
SE~~~%D                                               ,.4t5 ~ 1'4 
Ir                                                      -mIEi, frAy4   
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION 
:., av oRouneD-o ~~iir-.                    jS33\                               TALAND
PROJECT                                                                        TALN
IR--     I  '       A              '       "'
-     K__   HAV CW6RULTIONf       DMS*OM!/           DIVISION
PNAVED ONDAD LROA
*   .,UWA"EOOK-CART"     mRAR
- StSTRACKSALS
*   I-.-fl  TRACK RAILWAYS
ir *-  0   IVES                  *               .IAAA,.LW4          -                                     s
OUIRUATRWAL IOuDIaRIIEs
WEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSERM' J .
--ATE
0      So 1,       o       xc                                                                                   C;J
-C  :, c:K:. --= .  K    01   
,@..                     ;      e       e     _       _            : _           -Q'vj        '     
c-*-          :                         ;        -     -                -      ,:-.l                        ,        t



