Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C $?/ / 
Report No. 5461-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BUR4A
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 30, 1985
Power & Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kyat (K)
US$1.00       =  K 8.90
K 1.00        =  rJS$0.112
Value of Kyat is tied to SDR and floats against US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)  =  1.273 cubic feet (cu. ft.) true
geometric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (Ht)   =  50 HF in round logs, equivalent to
50.64 - 63.66 cu. ft. depending on log
shape = 1.4-1.8 cubic meter (M) of
wood underbark depending on log shape
1 sawn ton (St)      =  50 cu. ft. of sawnwood, or 1.416 m
1 metric ton (mt)   =  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AAC      -   Annual Allowable Cut
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BFSSC    -   Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation
BPC      -   Burma Ports Corporation
3RC      -   Burma Railways Corporation
CC       -   Construction Corporation
CAO      -   Central Accounts Office
CMCC     -   Central Movement Coordination Committee
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
FAG      -   Food and Agriculture Organizaticn of
the United Nations
FD       -   Forest Department
FFS      -   Forest Feasibility Studies
FFYP     -   Fourth Five Year Plan
FOB      -   Free on Board
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB      -   Government of the Socialist Republic of
the Union of Burma
Ht       -   Hoppus Ton
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
IWTC     -   Inland Water Transport Corporation
K        -   Kyats
LTT      -   Lanaing Tank Type
MAF      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
hOC      -   Ministry of Construction
MOPF     -   Ministry of Planning and Finance
MOTC     -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
PCG      -   Project Coordination Group
PU       -   Project Unit
RTC      -   Road Transport Corporation
SEE      -   State Economic Enterprise
St       -   Sawn Ton
TC       -   Timber Corporation
TFYP     -   Third Five-Year Plan
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   ECONOMIC  SETTING  ......................................                                  1
II.   FORESTRY AND TRANSPORT  SECTORS  ........................                                   2
The Forestry Sector:
A.   Introduction  ......................................                                 2
B.   Forestry Sector Objectives  ........................                                 2
C.   Forest  R-sources  ..................................                                3
D.   Forest  Management  .................................                                3
E.   The  Timber  Corporation  ............................                               4
F.   Timber  Management  .................................                                5
G. Teak Sales and Export Pricing ....................                                     6
H. Manufacturing Facilities ..........................                                    7
The Transport Sector:
I.   Introduction  ......................................                                 7
J.   Transport  Planning  and  Coordination  ....                     ...........         8
K.   Transport  Agencies  ................................                                8
L.   Road  Systems  and  Transport  ........................                              9
M.   Rail  System  and  Transport  .........................                             10
N. River Transport ...................                                                   12
0.   Rangoon  - Log  Depots  ..............................                              12
P.   Ports  and  Ship  Loading  ............................                             13
Q. Ocean Shipping .......................                                                13
III. THE PROJECT ..........................................                                      14
A.   Project  Genesis  and  Strategy  ......................                             14
B.  Project Objectives ................................                                  14
C.  Project Components ................................                                  14
D. Cost Estimates ...................                                                    16
E. Financing Plan ...................                                                   17
F.  Implementation ....................................                                 18
G.   Operational  Conditions  ............................                               20
H. Procurement ..........................-...-.....                                     21
I.  Disbursements ..................-...............                                    23
J. Environmental Impact ..........................-. 23
K. Reporting .............-...............    23
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Dank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................    24
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ...................    24
B.  Economic Evaluation of Subcomponents ....  ..........   25
C. Overall Evaluation ..........................--. 29
D. Sensitivity Analysis .........................        29
E. Risks .............................................    29
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   ............    30
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Selected Documents Available in the Project File     32
Annex 2 - Central Movement Coordination Committee .... .......   34
Annex 3 - List of Railway Stations to be Developed as
Primary Timber Shipping Points ....   ..............    37
Annex 4 - Details of Project Components .....................   38
Annex 5 - Implementation Schedule ...........................    45
Annex 6 - Project Coordination Group ........................    46
Annex 7 - Expected Annual Traffic Volumes to be Transported
in the Main Proposed Project Subcomponents   ......   48
Annex 8 - Details of the Economic Analysis of the
Myitkyina Region Component ......................    49
TABLES
Table 1 - Logs and Sawn Timber Transported to Rangoon   .......   51
Table 2 - Timber Distribution Performance -
Teak and Hardwood ..................-----. 52
Table 3 - Sawmill Capacity ..................................    54
Table 4 - Transportation of Logs by Rail ....   ................   55
Table 5 - Logs Inventory at Railway Stations ....  ............   56
Table 6 - Inventory of Timber Wagons ........................   58
Table 7 - Inventory of Logs at Storage Depots, Rangoon ......   59
Table 8 - Detailed Cost Estimates ...........................    60
Table 9 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....  ...........    64
CHART
World Bank-25042 - Timber Corporation - Organization Chart
MAP
Map No. IBRD 18518 - Burma Timber Transport/Distribution Project
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alikhan, Auzmendi, Melrose, and
Sabeti (ASPPT), and Messrs. Holmsen and Burns (Consultants)



BURMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC SETTING
1.01      Burma covers an area of about 262,000 square miles and consists
of lowlands in the basins of the rivers Irrawaddy, Chindwin, Sittang, and
Salween, surrounded by hills and mountains to the east, north, and west
and divided by a hill range running from north to south in central Burma
(Map IBRD 18518). The country has a total population of about 35 million,
which is growing at a rate of about 2.0% per annum. About one-quarter of
the population lives in urban areas and the rest is dispersed in a large
number of villages located in the main agricultural areas, i.e., the river
basins and the Irrawaddy delta. The main centers of population and
economic activity are Rangoon and Mandalay, the former being the capital,
the seat of Government, and the country's main international port.
1.02      Per capita income (FY82 current value) is reported to be K 1,275
(US$143), up from K 1,145 (US$129) in FY81. The real growth in per capita
income during the Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) period was 4.6% p.a.
Because of a sharp reduction in rice exports, export earnings declined
significantly in FY83, resulting in a balance of payment deficit of
K 915.4 million versus the targetted K 213.7 million. The foreign
exchange reserves were consequently reduced from K 1,586.5 million
(US$178.3 million) (March 1982) to K 781.8 million (US$87.8 million) at
the end of September 1982.
1.03      Because of damage suffered during World War II, internal unrest
and a decade of economic stagnation during a period of social restructur-
ing (from the mid-60's to the mid-70's), Burma has only recently begun to
expand per capita output of major commodities and to augment export earn-
ings in real terms. During the mid and late 70's, the Government of Burma
(GOB) carried out a series of major reforms aimed at reorienting economic
policies in a more open and pragmatic fashion. These reforms included
shifts of investment priorities in favor of the primary producing sectors,
adjustment of producer and retail prices to enhance incentives and ration-
alize the price structure, and increased emphasis on commercial principles
in the management of State Economic Enterprises (SEE). Mainly as a result
of these reforms, real GDP increased approximately 6.5% p.a. between
1976/77 and 1980/81, against only 2.9% p.a. between 1971/72 and 1976/77;
while growth rates in the transport sector were 7.3% p.a. and -0.4% p.a.,
respectively.



-2-
1.04      The GOB's main economic goals under the Fourth Four-Year Plan
(FFYP) 1982/83-85/86 are to maintain overall economic growth and to
realize a surplus on the balance of payments, while avoiding undesirable
inflationary pressures. This will require, among other things:
(a) recovery and maintenance of forestry and agricultural production;
(b) further improvements in capacity utilization and productivity, espe-
cially in transport and industry; (c) a more selective approach to public
investment projects; and (d) sufficient resources, both foreign and domes-
tic to carry out the planned investment program. Continued economic
development will be reflected in increased pressures on all transport
systems as well as on the forest resources.
II. FORESTRY AND TRANSPORT SECTORS
THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01      Burma is well endowed with natural resources.  Forests form a
major element of this endowment. Climate and topography together have
contributed both to a rich variety of forest species and to a river system
providing access for timber extraction. Teak and a few other valuable
hardwood species have historically formed the major part of forest output.
2.02      Burma's forests cover about 96 million acres or about 50% of
total land area. GOB has classified about 24 million acres as national
forest reserves. About 54% of all forest land is mixed deciduous forest,
26% is hill and temperate evergreen forest, 16% is tropical evergreen
forest, the rest being swamp land. About 35% of Burma's forest resources,
including 15% of standing teak volume and 25% of the teak Annual Allowable
Cut (AAC), are currently inaccessible for security reasons. Planned
forestry operations in these areas are usually not possible.
B. Forestry Sector Objectives
2.03      The principal GOB sectoral objectives are: (a) to maximize teak
log export revenues in the near term; (b) to satisfy the domestic market
for sawn hardwoods; and (c) to develop a strategy to maximize long-term
economic returns from the forest resource.
2.04      External assistance has been provided to Burma over the past
from various sources to meet the above sectoral objectives. The major
forestry projects undertaken in Burma in the past ten years are: IDA
Forestry I (of which the Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS) is one of the
components), IDA Forestry II; IDA Wood Industries I and II; ADB Forestry I



-3-
and II; UNDP/FAO National Forest Survey and Inventory, and the UNDP/FAO
Forest Research Institute at Yezin. In the foregoing projects, the main
issues concerning the forestry sector are addressed and therefore they are
not dealt with in the proposed project.
C. Forest Resources
2.05      While forestry activities account for less than 3% of CDP in
current prices, the sector is important in export trade where it tradi-
tionally has been the second largest foreign exchange earner; in FY81/82
forest products earned about K 696 million (US$78 million). In addition,
the sector is an important source of funds for the national budget and in
FY81/82 made a net contribution of about K 600 million (US$67 million) to
public sector resources in the form of royalties, taxes, duties, and
surplus of Timber Corporation (TC). The proposed project would reduce
transport/distribution costs enabling the sector to further increase its
net contribution.
2.06      The sector is an important source of construction material, and
in 1981/82 supplied about 350,000 sawn tons (St) of lumber and 25 million
sq. ft. of plywood. A shortage of these construction materials has con-
strained implementation of many projects in Burma. The proposed project
will help to improve the hardwood and teak sawnwood availability.
2.07      Forest products provide a high proportion of rural energy con-
sumption through firewood and charcoal. The rural population is also
dependent on forest products such as bamboo for housing construction. The
sector provides total permanent employment to about 160,000 persons.
Arrival of logs and timber products to Rangoon by all transport modes
totalled about 340,000 Hoppus ton (Ht) during 1982/83. A breakdown of
transport volumes by various modes over the period 1977/78 to 1982/83 is
summarized in Table 1.
2.08      A description of Burma's forest resources and a discussion of
their development potential can be found in a number of documents and
reports which are briefly described and listed in the Project File (Annex 1).
D. Forest Management
2.09      All forest land in Burma is owned by the State, and the Forest
Department (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) is
primarily responsible for its management. FD, which was founded in 1856,
manages Burmese forests in accordance with the Forest Act of 1881 as
amended in 1902 and 1941. The Act authorizes the creation of reserved
forests. FD sets annual allowable cuts (AAC) within these forests. FD
periodically calculates AAC of teak and hardwood in each forest division,
which would theoretically ensure a sustainable yield from the forest stock
in perpetuity. The AAC is based on old forest inventory information, but



-4-
GOB is currently updating its forest inventory information with UNDP/FAO
assistance. The new inventory will be completed by 1986. FD marks trees
that meet the criteria for extraction by TC, including girdling of teak
trees in forest areas that supply dry teak. After extraction, FD assesses
royalties on the logs extracted at rates of K 200/Ht for teak and
K 15-30/Ht for other hardwoods. GOB also receives substantial contribu-
tions from wood industries operations through export taxes of about
K l,100/Ht and local taxes of about K 110lHt. The combined royalty and
tax level is higher than in most other timber exporting countries.
2.10      FD has also a forest plantation program under which about
170,000 acres of teak and about 80,000 acres of other hardwood species
have been planted. The program is supported in part by the IDA-assisted
Forestry II Project (Credit 949-BA) and is expected to increase the teak
supplv in future. Another project with a significant forest plantation
component is ,-urrently being prepared for possible IDA assistance.
E. The Timber Corporation (TC)
2.11      TC is a Government-owned corporation, formed under the State
Timber Board Act of 1950 as a separate legal entity. TC has three main
areas of responsibility: (a) extraction of all teak logs and half of the
hardwood logs produced in Burma; (b) operation of most of the wood
processing industries in Burma including all teak sawmills, plywood and
veneer mills, furniture and flooring products factories and about 40% of
the hardwood mills; and (c) marketing of wood products, both within and
outside Burma.
2.12      TC is a large corporation with about 40,000 full-time employees
and 600 professional staff. It is divided into four functional depart-
ments: extraction, marketing and milling, engineering, and accounts and is
headed by a Managing Director (Chart 1). In 1976 an attempt was made to
modify the organization, but in practice, the emphasis is still on func-
tional specialization. TC has also created project units (PU) for
developmental purposes. These PU have typically been formed to implement
large, externally assisted development projects. PU have considerable
authority and autonomy within TC, reflected in higher level staffing,
direct access to the Managing Director when needed, and separate financial
statements and audits. This arrangement has been successful in con-
centrating effort on areas with the greatest potential for TC.
2.13      TC currently has a central training school for workers in
Rangoon, but the training school has few permanent staff, and therefore
TC relies almost exclusively on practical training in the mills. A
UNDP-financed and FAO-executed training project (the Technical and Voca-
tional Forestry and Forest Industries Training Project) is strengthening
local training within TC by setting up a Forest Industry Training School
and developing skills within TC.



-5-
F. Timber Management
2.14      Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 million Ht in 1972/73
and declined after that, reaching a low of 1.0 million Ht in 1975/76. The
decline was due to shortage of extraction equipment and fuel. Since then
the IDA-assisted Forestry I and II Projects (Credit 493-BA and Credit
949-BA) and the ADB-assisted Sagaing Forestry and Second Forestry Projects
have provided substantiaL assistance for extraction, in the form of new
equipment and technical assistance. The decline has been reversed, and
about 1.4 million Ht of teak and other hardwood logs were extracted in
1981/82. Teak extraction, which is a state monopoly, contributed about
0.5 million Ht, other hardwood extraction by TC contributed 0.7 million Ht
with the remaining 0.2 million Ut coming from private sector extraction of
nonteak hardwoods.
2.15      Traditionally TC's management was extraction oriented, with
insufficient emphasis on wood processing industries and marketing. This
resulted in declining product quality and marketing efforts so that TC's
exports declined sharply. Over the five years ending in 1977/78, export
volume of teak sawnwood declined by 40% (63,400 St to 38,700 St) and of
teak logs by 15% (53,700 Ht to 45,600 Ht). Since 1977/78 increasing
attention has been devoted to processing and marketing, and in 1981/82 the
export volumes of processed teak products and logs have increased to
72,000 St and 75,000 Ht respectively, thereby recouping previous declines.
2.16      While sufficient attenticn in the past has been given to extrac-
tion and sawnwood activities, transport has lagged behind. Transport/
distribution problems, mainly of coordination, allocation of traffic to
appropriate modes, and investment in necessary infrastructure need to be
addressed if the export levels attained and expected to increase are to be
sustained. The proposed project tackles some immediate problems, par-
ticularly that of coordination and transport capacity constraints, and it
will address the medium- and long-term issues under a comprehensive study.
These problem areas are described in detail in subsequent paragraphs.
2.17      Burma's timber can be broadly categorized into teak and
hardwoods. Ideally, most of the teak should be exported and hardwood
should be left for local consumption. There is, however, an important
inter-relationship between the two as less production and/or transport of
hardwoods results in increased consumption of teak locally, thus depriving
the country of valuable foreign exchange earnings. Therefore, the tran-
sport needs of both teak and hardwood, with emphasis on export oriented
products, have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
2.18      The present AAC for teak is about 400,000 Ht, of which about
350,000 Ht are from accessible areas. The AAC for all types of hardwoods
is set at 1.1 million Ht. Although only about 70% of the AMC for total



-6-
hardwoods has been cuc, extraction of teak has, for the past 5 years,
exceeded the AAC for the country as a whole (Table 2), because greater
emphasis is being placed on exportable teak.
G. Teak Sales and Export Pricing
2.19      Because of the nature of Burma's wood processing industry and
the quality and efficiency problems facing the industry (para 2.22), TC
has a policy of exporting its best teak in log form. In 1981/82, TC
exported about 75,000 Ht of high-grade logs worth about US$44 million.
Lower grades of teak were exported as sawnwood. Sawnwood exports in
1981/82 were about 72,000 sawn tons 1/, worth about US$45 million. The
lowest grades of teak sawnwood are sold locally. Local demand for teak is
high because of a shortage of durable sawn hardwood. In 1981/82, local
teak sawnwood sales were about 75,000 St, worth about US$12 million. The
local prices are lower mainly because of the lower grade of the teak
sawnwood sold in local markets.
2.20      TC has a strong position in world teak markets, supplying vir-
tually all natural teak logs and 70% of natural teak conversions (sawn)
entering international markets. Logs and lumber from Burma are considered
superior in quality to plantation-grown teak that is being supplied in
increasing quantities from countries such as Indonesia. Ceneral difficul-
ties expressed by buyers of Burma teak and hardwood log and lumber buyers
worldwide include a requirement to pay 100% in advance, slow deliveries on
contracts because of inadequate transport, expensive and unreliable ship-
ping, declining product quality, and damage and loss in shipping. Despite
this, there is a high demand for Burma's forest products. The proposed
project will address some of these problems.
2.21      Export prices for wood products are set by TC, which is the sole
Burmese exporter of those products. Prior to 1978/79, TC management
instituted sharp price increases without sufficient notice. This led to
a contraction of teak markets as many consumers switched to other
hardwoods. Since 1978/79, TC has instituted a more organized pricing
policy. TC revises export prices only once every year in April. The
market is informed about price increases sufficiently in advance of that
date, and the price increases have been moderate at about 10% per year,
which is only about 2% to 3% above infLation. As a result of this and
improvements in marketing, TC has been able to regain most of its cus-
tomers. The current average export price for teak logs is K 4,900/Ht and
for teak sawnwood K 5,500JSt, which is about 5% higher than the Indonesian
teak price and reflects the quality premium for Burmese teak. Most of the
high grade teak is exported. Small amounts (about 1%) of other hardwoods
1/  Equivalent to 166,000 Ht in log form.



-7-
are exported in log and sawn form. Hardwood logs, depending on the type,
range in prices from K 500/Ht to 4,000/Ht. The average price of sawn
hardwood is about K 840/Ht.
H. Manufacturing Facilities
2.22      The manufacturing facilities operated by the TC include about
130 teak and hardwood saw mills, one waste-paper mill, and minor plants
such as small furniture factories. About 80 small, private firms receive
lumber from TC for resawing, and these account for roughly 25Z of the
hardwood sawing capacity. With the exception of the Okkyin mill, most
teak and hardwood mills are old, small and simply operated with 2,000 to
10,000 Ht annual input. Table 3 lists the capacity of TC and hired saw-
mills by State/Division. The milling processes are generally inaccurate
and inefficient, with an average recovery rate of only 34% for teak and
42% for hardwoods (Table 2). All principal teak mills are in the Rangoon
area, while hardwood production is widely dispersed in the country.
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
I. Introduction
2.23      Although forestry accounts for less than 3Z of CDP, it has a 30%
share of all freight transport in the coulatry. In the national accounts,
there is not a separate breakdown for transportation and communication.
Both accounL for about 5% of CDP. About 470,000 (3.3% of total labor
force of about 14 million) are employed in transportation and communication.
2.24      Past and current Bank Group lending strategy to the transport
sector in Burma has emphasized the improvement, rehabilitation, and main-
tenance of transport facilities to achieve greater utilization of the
existing assets. Major projects in this sector include: Railways I, II,
and III; Inland Water Transport I and II; Ports I, II, and III, and a
Construction Industry Project. Ports III and Construction Industry
Projects are currently being implemented. The Railways, Inland Water
Transport, and Por:s I and II have been satisfactorily completed. Project
Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports on Railways III
(1973 - Credit 414-BA), Inland Water Transport II (1973 - Credit 413-BA),
and Ports II (Credit 671-UP) have been issued, and the expost economic
rates of return have been respectively 12%, 10% for the railways and water
transport projects. It is not available for the Ports II Project. These
IDA projects have contributed towards curtailing deterioration of tran-
sport capacity, have improved operations of entities through technical
assistance, and have achieved modest improvements on institutional and
financial aspects of entities involved.



-8-
J. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.25      Transport planning and coordination is undertaken within the
context of overall national planning, which is based on objectives estab-
lished by the Party Congress. On the basis of the overall targets for the
transport sector, the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC),
through the Central Movement and Coordination Committee (CMCC), estab-
lishes the commodity priorities and prepares a four-year plan for all
transport modes. The CMCC is chaired by the Deputy Minister of MOTC with
the members being the Managing Directors of the following corporations:
Burma Railways (BRC), Road Transport (RTC), Burma Five Star Shipping
(BFSSC), Burma Ports (BPC), and Inland Water Transport (IWTC). All of
these agencies are involved in the distribution of timber. An outline of
the organization, aims and objectives of the CMCC is found in Annex 2.
2.26      The main aim for creating CMCC was to move Government goods
expeditiously and at the lowest cost to the economy by allocating traffic
to the various modes in accordance with perceived commodity transport
needs and capacity. However, the system has proven to be ineffective and
detrimental to the already inefficient operations of the state-owned
transport corporations. The traffic allocations are based on priorities
among different commodities (e.g., rice has absolute priority over all
other goods) and on a certain order of availability of different public
carriers, without any consideration for the most economic mode for dif-
ferent types of movements and cargoes, no consideration of return cargo,
etc. Moreover, CMCC has serious staff and information data constraints,
and user agencies are not formally represented in CMCC. The comprehensive
study (para 3.16) included in the proposed project will examine the role
and -.urkings of the CMCC and recommend improvements. At the same time,
lessons to be learned from the operation of a Project Coordination Group
(PCG) (para 3.13) would also help in defining possible improvements to
CMCC.
K. Tran_ort Agencies
2.27      The topography of the country, the location of population along
the rivers. and deterioration of the railway system have resulted in river
and road transport becoming the dominant modes of transport, while the
railway is limited to serving the most important population and economic
centers. The north-south transport corridor ronnecting Rangoon with
Mandalay and Myitkyina represents the main artery of the transporr system.
The corridor is served by road, river, and railway.
2.28      MOTC overviews the operation of the BPC, BRC, IWTC, RTC, BFSSC,
and other agencies not relevant to the proposed project. Transport
activities are within the purview of MOTC, except for highway planning and
construction, which come under the Ministry of Construction (MOC). MOTC
is responsible for enforcing Covernment policies regarding transportation



-9-
by: (a) approving the budgets of transport agencies in consultation with
the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF); (b) appointing top level
officers at transport agencies; (c) setting tariffs and tariff policies;
and (d) enforcing relevant regulations in the operation of the sector.
L. Road Systems and Transport
2.29      MOC, with the Construction Corporation (CC) as the executing
agency, is responsible for che administration, construction, and main-
tenance of the primary and secondary public road network. Forest roads,
which are mainly fair weather roads, are constructed and maintained by TC.
About 2,200 miles of this type of road -ere constructed by TC in the
period 1978/79 to 1981/82, wich technical assistance from CC.
2.30      CC is constructing a major road on the west side of the
Irrawaddy River to connect Sagain and Myitkyina. Parts of this road are
becoming increasingly important for truck transport of logs. Construction
on some sections is still to be completed to tie the system together.
Public roads also connect this north-south main road system with the
Irrawaddy River at Naba/Katha and Shwebo/Kyauk Myaung. In addition, the
TC has extraction roads connecting to the Irrawaddy at Kanbalu/Khayansakan,
Kyaikthin/Khayansakan, and Kabo (Mu River)/Zigon/Male. Joint TC/CC road
systems also connect Wuntho and Nankhan with the Meza River (Tawma). The
road at Wuntho connects west to the Chindwin River via Pinlebu. While
the CC main roads are all-weather roads, most of the TC roads are only
passable during fair weather. In line with one of COB's main objectives
for improvement of the road infrastructure, the proposed project would
include the construction of important road links for log transport (Map
IBRD 18518).
2.31      Road transport of logs and timber is primarily carried out by
TC, which operates a fleet of more than 2,000 trucks. Less than 70Z of
these are reported serviceable. TC's trucks are mainly used for long
distance haulage, while private trucks, mainly owner-operators or small
companies, are used for the local and short-distance log and lumber tran-
sport. All private and most TC trucks are of 6-ton capacity or less.
Because of the shortage of rail wagon capacity, CC transports by truck a
substantial amount of lumber from mills in Upper and Central Burma to
Rangoon (over 400 miles) for its own use. The proposed project would
provide sufficient rail capacity to eliminate long distance movement of
teak and lumber by uneconomic road transport.
2.32      Logs moving by traditional means of stream floating could take
3-5 years on average to reach Rangoon, because the movement is
weather-dependent. Where mechanized means are utilized, this time car, be
considerably reduced. Teak-log inventories along roadsides, rail sta-
tions, and at rafting and log depots range from 1.5 to 6 times the AAC,
depending on the location. Because of the lack of all-weather roads (and



-10-
to make the best use of the limited truck supply>. logs are trucked out of
the forest on fair-weather roads during the dry season and placed in
interim storage near an all-weather road. The logs are reloaded and
transported on all-weathe.r roads to local sawmills, railway, or rafting
depots during the wet season. Railway-transported teak on the Myitkyina
line is dumped into the Irrawaddy River at Sagaing where rafts are con-
structed for towing to Rangoon, while hardwoods are generally absorbed by
Mandalay sawmills. Logs trucked directly to the main rivers are formed
into rafts. Dry and green teak are towed to Rangoon, hardwoods to the
closer local mills.
2.33      Log production in Upper Burma has been adversely affected by
the poor state of the transport system. Storage of logs at roadside
landings or along seasonal streams for long periods has resulted in losses
from theft and natural deterioration. The proposed project would help
coordinate transport activities and provide funds for investments of urgent
nature to meet the near-term needs of the timber dstribution system.
M. Rail System and Transport
2.34      The railways are operated by the publicly owned BRC, which is
under the MOTC. The system comprises 2,000 route miles of meter gauge
track. Movements of logs and timber products by rail are primarily con-
centrated on the following three lines: (a) the Mandalay-Myitkyina railway
line, which runs for 338 miles through parts of the ADB Forestry I and II
project areas; (b) the Pyinmana/ Taungdwingyi-Rangoon line, which runs
through IDA II Forestry Project areas; and (c) the Prome line serving
parts of the IDA I Forestry Project area (Map No. IBRD 18518). While an
annual average of about 173,000 Ht of logs (91,000 Ht teak and 82,000 Ht
hardwoods) and 13,000 St of sawn timber products were transported by rail
during 1980/81 and 1981/82, rail movements were down to 53,000 Ht of logs
(47,000 Ht teak and 6,000 Ht hardwoods) in 1982/83.  About 20,000 Ht of
logs have annually been transported on the Myitkyina line during the past
3-4 years (Table 4). The volume for 1983/84 will be substantially down
from this level because BRC is unable to supply railway wagons. Projected
future annual rail transport demand on this line is about 80,000 Ht.
Although only about 25% of all timber products are transported directly to
Rangoon by rail (waterways are the major transport mode), railways are
essential for moving logs from areas relatively distant from rivers and in
places where only the rail mode is viable.
2.35      BRC owns and operates 23 cranes at 21 stations throughout its
national networks for log-handling purposes. Because transport capacity,
as well as loading equipment and associated facilities are expensive and
quite limited in nature, it is advisable that loading operations be con-
solidated in the fewest stations. To this end, nine stations on the
Mandalay-Myitkyina section have been identified for development as primary
timber shipping points, while other smaller ones should be closed. At
negotiations, agreement was reached on consolidation of loading points at
nine stations (Annex 3).



-11-
2.36      Transport components under previous and current forestry
projects have been project-specific, and financing, which was provided
within them, focussed on construction of access and feeder roads (from
points of extraction in forest areas to main water depots and railway
heads) and to a limited extent on railways. IDA Forestry I (1974) and ADB
Forestry I (1977) Projects did not have transport components for railways.
In 1977, 34 timber wagons were procured under bilateral assistance, the
only addition to the fleet in the last ten years. Under the IDA Forestry
II (1979) Project, a modest provision of K 6.5 million (about US$1.0
million at the time of appraisal) was made for the repair of 190 timber
wagons. A large proportion of these now need to be rehabilitated. Host
recently, the ADB Forestry II (1982) Project has provided for rehabilita-
tion of 120 timber wagons, while the assessed project requirement was for
150 timber wagons. The balance of 30 timber wagons were supposed to be
rehabilitated by BRC, which cannot undertake this work due to a shortage
of foreign exchange. The proposed project would provide financial assis-
tance for the rehabilitation of those 30 timber wagons.
2.37      Severe capacity constraints on timber transport by rail have
resulted in log and timber accumulation at stations and depots along the
railway, particularly on the Hytkyina line (Table 5). This constraint
is caused by the deteriorating condition of BRC's rolling stock, which is
overaged and lacks spare parts due to foreign exchange shortages.
Although the rolling stock inventory shown in Table 6 indicates 538 timber
wagons serviceable for log transport, on average only 25% (135) of its
timber wagons and 60% of its locomotives are in operation at any given
time. Almost none of the wagons are classified as "good" by BRC and most
of them are 25-40 years old. BRC estimates that only 10% of its timber
fleet has vacuum brakes left on them because of pilferage of brake com-
ponents. In addition, the multiplicity of wagons (nine types of bogie
wagons) and locomotives and continual shortage of durable ties is creating
vexing problems of maintenance. These factors are reducing the operating
speed of trains and the efficiency of BRC's timber operations.
2.38      Of the 538 timber wagons mentioned above, only 440 wagons are
within an operationally economic age profile, 6-29 years. If timber
wagons were in good serviceable condition and transport activities well
coordinated, then about 440 timber wagons should be sufficient to meet the
near term transport needs of timber. These should form the mainstay of
timber transportation and should be the target group for rehabilitation
and maintenance. Under the proposed project, immediate short-term remedies
to capacity constraints experienced by BRC are being addressed; the
medium- and long-term problems will be the subject of a comprehensive
study (para 3.16). Specifically under the proposed project, although some
new wagons would be procured, the thrust is towards rehabilitation of
railway wagons and locomotives on routes (discussed in detail in Chapter
III) where large volumes of timber can be most economically moved by rail.



-12-
N. River Transport
2.39      Traditionally, rafting and towing of logs on the main rivers has
been the principal method used for transporting logs in Burma. This is
the responsibility of TC, which has iLs own crews, and additionally uses
private contractors. Dry teak logs, which float, are formed into rafts
and towed by launches to Rangoon. Hardwood and green teak, being
"sinkers", are rafted by mixing dry teak for buoyancy, interweaving bamboo
pontoons, or being suspended by slings between country boats. These
rafting techniques, however, result in lengthy delays and log losses in
transit (Table 2). Other externally assiste%1 forestry projects have
provided technical assistance for improving rafting techniques.
2.40      The state-owned Inland Water Transport Corporation (IWTC), also
under the MOTC, carried about 1.9 million tons of goods traffic in
1982183.  No logs, and only minor volumes of lumber, have been carried by
barges in the past. Under the proposed project, a component of experimen-
tal nature comprising of one pusher tug and five 500 t barges will be
utilized in dedicated routes service to transport high valued hardwood
logs and lumber. This will be the first time that a barge system, which
has the potential for reducing lengthy delays and log losses in transit,
will be utilized in Burma to transport logs.
0. Rangoon - Log Depots
2.41      Logs rafted to Rangoon are held at ten riverside depots (Table 7)
pending grading and allocation to mills or export sales depots. Total
storage capacity of these depots on land and water is about 320,000 Ht.
The Okkyin depot is a major processing area for sinkers (hardwoods and
green teak) from the Irrawaddy/Chindwin river systems. The rafts are
brought into a shallow channel and dismantled during high tide. As the
tide goes out, the logs are left exposed and yarded out. Skidders and
loaders are used to bring the logs to road side and onto the trucks. Logs
are sorted for trarnsfer to the adjacent Okkyin teak sawmill or to hardwood
sawmills in the Ran='oon area. Soft ground, poor roads, and inefficient
handling account for low productivity. Provision has been made in the
proposed project to improve movement of log and lumber to and from the
major Okkyin depot.
2.42      To transport volumes on the Myitkyina corridor by river mode,
improvements are necessary to the Sagaing and Katha log depots (Map No.
IBRD 18518). For smooth operations, the interface between rail and river
operations have to be compatible, and appropriate design layouts are znder
advanced preparation in Burma. At negotiations these preliminary designs
were reviewed and agreed with GOBJMOTC.



-13-
P. Ports and Ship Loading
2.43      The ports are administered by the Burma Ports Corporation (BPC),
also under the MOTC. Export shipments through the Port of Rangoon have
averaged about 250,000 tons of logs and 110,000 tons of lumber annually
over the past five years.
2.44      Heavy timbers and long lumber for export is transported by
trucks from the sawmills to ship side in loose form, while short lumber is
steel banded and scantlings floated in rafts to ship side or transported
by truck to dock side. Also, logs for export are transported by truck or
floated by river to ship side. Loading of logs and sawn timber is slow
and inefficient and often subject to lengthy delays waiting for logs to
arrive. The bundled or crated teak shorts and scantlings often break or
are damaged during positioning in the hold. Stowing is particularly
difficult if the ship is equipped with narrow hatches. The new container
handling facilities in Rangoon, supported by the IDA Ports III Project,
will accommodate an increasing amount of containerized forest products
shipments. Buyers of teak products from Burma welcome this development.
Provision has been made in the proposed project to handle increased
volumes of sawn timber in containers and to transport sawn timber by an
efficient barge system, thus avoiding truck transport through the con-
gested Rangoon City. Container handling will also involve, for the first
time in Burma, the placing of containers directly at saw mills for loading.
Q. Ocean Shipping
2.45      Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC) owns and operates
ten coastaL and fourteen ocean-going vessels, eight of them above
10,000 dwt. In addition, a number of foreign-flag vessels are chartered
to meet the overall needs of the country's exports, mainly rice and tim-
ber. Although most of the log and lumber exports are carried by BFSSC,
only about 37% of Burma's foreign trade is carried with its own or
chartered vessels. Freight rates of buyer chartered vessels are reported
to be significantly lower than BFSSC rates. Although there is no official
regulation requiring shipment of logs by BFSSC, the GOB expresses a
preference for use of these ships. Since logs and timber products are
sold FOB, problems are experienced in the coordination, timing of ship-
ments, and slow ship loading. Shipping practices need to be examined in
depth and the proposed comprehensive study would address these and make
appropriate recommendations.



-1b-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy and Genesis
3.01      The Government's export promotion objectives ovec the short to
medium term are to increase the unit value of export rice through improved
grading and milling, and to raise foreign exchange from teak exports
through greater efficiency in handling, processing, and transport. IDA's
country strategy and lending program support these objectives.
3.02      Recognizing that transport bottlenecks are adversely affecting
exports, GOB has begun to tackle specific commodity distribution problems.
Since rice and timber are the two major export commodities, initial atten-
tion focussed on the flow of these two commodities. After completion of a
review by IDA in 1982, it was concluded that each commodity poses its own
unique distribution problems requiring a specialized approach. Since
timber distribution problems are more acute and need immediate attention,
they are being tackled first. Lessons learned from this project could be
applied to other key commodity distributions in Burma.
B. Project Objectives
3.03      The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) achieve significant improvements in the planning and allocation
of transport services concerned with the movement of timber;
(b) arrest further deterioration of the existing timber transport/
distribution capacity, with a subsequent improvement in timber
quality, quantity, and reliability of supply and export;
(c) reduce timber transport, handling, and storage costs; and
(d) test new timber transport systems.
C. Project Components
3.04      The proposed project approach is designed to be experimental in
nature in that: (a) it improves the management of timber transportation
witbin the context of the existing institutional framework; (b) it will
introduce the possibility of employing different modes of transportation
to meet the logistic requirements of a changing timber market; and (c) it
will improve transport to inaccessible areas, permitting better utiliza-
tion of forestry resources. One fundamental component of the proposed
project is the creation of a Project Coordination Group (PCG) (para 3.13),
including user agency participation, with specific responsibility to plan



-15-
and coordinate activities relating to the movement of timber. The inter-
action of this group wiLl inevitably have an impact which would result in
an overall improvement in the distribution of timber. It is envisaged
that further Bank involvement would develop from the positive demonstra-
tion effects of the proposed, approach. The proposed project addresses the
immediate need to arrest further deterioration in transport capacity,
while the overall institutional and financial aspects of agencies involved
in the distribution/transport of timber will be analyzed in a comprehen-
sive study (para 3.16) with the objective of strengthening the system.
3.05      To achieve the objectives indicated in para 3.03, the proposed
project comprises the components described below. Cross-references indi-
cate the identification of each component with the objectives described in
para 3.03.
(a)  Creation of a Project Coordination Group (PCG) - to plan and
coordinate activities related to the movement of timber (para
3.03 (a));
(b)  Comprehensive Study - to analyze and make recommendations con-
cerning the major issues affecting the transport/distribution
of timber (para 3.03 (a));
(c) Training and Technical Assistance on: - (i) strengthening the
PCG; (ii) new timber transport systems to be tested under the
proposed project; and (iii) specialized operator training (para
3.03 (a));
(d) Myitkyina Corridor
i)  Naba-Katha - rail and road improvements for increased log
traffic by provision of additional railway infrastructure
and rehabilitation of rolling stock for log transport,
introduction of new fastener techniques for prevention of
pilferage of critical brake components, Katha log depot
improvements, loading/unloading equipment, and improvements
of the Naba-Katha Road (para 3.03 (b) and (c));
(ii)  Wuntho-Irrawaddy River road connection - upgrading of
existing roads to aLl-weather transport and provision of
additional construction equipment capacity (para 3.03 (c));
(iii)  Sagaing Log Depot - redesign of rail yard, improvements to
depot yard, and provision of additional log loading and
unloading equipment (para 3.03 (b) and (c));
(e) Prome Rail Line - provision of additional rolling stock for log
transport (para 3.03 (c));



-16-
(f) Pyinmana Rail Line - rehabilitation of rolling stock for log
transport para 3.03 (b) and (c));
(g) Transport of CC.Sawn Timber - provision of additional railway
rolling stock (para 3.03 (c));
(h) Containerization and Ship Loading - improvements in the
efficiency of forest products container loading and ship loading
of logs (para 3.03 (b), (c), and (d));
(i) Barge System - provisions for trials of barge transport of logs
on the Irrawaddy/Chindwin river systems (para 3.03 (b), (c), and
(d)); and
(j) Rangoon Harbor - tug and barges for transport of timber products
to ship side in Rangoon and yard improvements at Okkyin Log
Depots (para 3.03 (b), (c), and (d));
Details of the above project components are given in Annex 4.
3.06      The proposed project includes transport and related components
which will close the gaps presently existing in the distribution of timber
from the points of origin to the destined markets. The physical com-
ponents of the proposed project are interdependent because the solution
adopted for the improvement of one bottleneck may affect other phases. As
an example, a substantial increase in the railway capacity to transport
logs to the Sagaing depot must be accompanied by improvements in the
operations at the depot. Otherwise, the result would be only a transfer
of the bottleneck from one place to another. A similar case would occur
if no adequate provisions are made in the Rangoon area to receive an
increased number of logs. Therefore, under the proposed project, the
selection of the physical subcomponents has been based on an adequate flow
analysis. This integrated system approach has taken into account the
interdependence of the different subcomponents.
D. Cost Estimates
3.07      The proposed project components are estimated to total K 258.10
million (US$29.00 million equivalent), of which the total foreign exchange
component is US$17.00 million. Principal components and cost estimates
are detailed in Table 8 and summarized below.



-17-
--- Kyats Million ---  ---- US$ Million ----  Foreign Z
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  TotaL  of Total
Myitkyina Line          44.69   50.40   95.09   5.02    5.66   10.68    52.99
Prome Line               7.33   12.69   20.02   0.82    1.43    2.25    63.55
Pyinmana Line            6.73   11.80   18.53   0.75    1.33    2.08    63.94
CC Timber Transport      6.45   14.33   20.78   0.72    1.61    2.33    69.10
Container Equipment      2.89    6.42    9.31   0.33    0.72    1.05    68.57
Barging System          11.77   12.89   24.66   1.32    1.45    2.77    52.35
Rangoon Harbor Equip.   4.36    4.87    9.23   0.49    0.55    1.04    52.88
Training & T.A.          1.78    1.78    3.56   0.20    0.20    0.40    50.00
Total Base Cost         85.99  115.19  201.18   9.65   12.95   22.60    57.30
Physical Contingency    6.88   11.52   18.40   0.78    1.29    2.07    62.32
Price Contingency       13.03   20.15   33.18   1.47    2.26    3.73    60.59
Total                  105.90  146.86  252.76  11.90   16.50   28.40    58.10
Comprehensive Study      0.89    4.45    5.34   0.10    0.50    0.60    83.33
Total Project Cost    106.79  151.31  258.10  12.00   17.00   29.00    58.62
Notes:  - Taxes and duties of about K 65.3 million (US$7.3 million)
are included in the local costs.
3.08      Cost estimates are based on March 1985 prices.  The foreign
exchange rate used in the above estimates was US$1.00 = Kyats 8.9. Physi-
cal contingencies are calculated at about 9%. Price contingencies are
based on estimated foreign cost escalations of 7.0% for 1985, 7.0% for
1986, 6.0% for 1987 and thereafter, and local cost escalations of 6%
annually. The average local and foreign price contingencies are based oni
the nature of goods involved in the proposed project. During negotiations,
the project cost estimates were discussed and agreed with GOB.
E. Financing Plan
3.09      IDA would finance the foreign exchange component of the proposed
project, which amounts to about US$16.50 million equivalent, the local
cost of the training and technical assistance component (US$0.2 million),
and US$1.05 million equivalent for local labor and materials as agreed at
negotiations. Thus, the proposed credit represents about 61% of the
project costs. UNDP would finance the total foreign exchange component of
the comprehensive study (para 3.16), estimated to be US$0.5 million.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with COB/MOTC that MOTC will
provide local funds for the project, amounting to K 95.68 million



-18-
(US$10.75 million equivalent), and release funds in a timely manner and in
accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 5). The proposed
financing plan is summarized as follows:
----------(US$ 000)         
IDA       COB       UNDP    Total
Foreign       16,500                500    17,000
Local          1,250    10,750              12,000
Total         17,750    10,750       500    29,000
F. Implementation
3.10      The primary responsibility for implementation of the proposed
project will rest with MOTC, acting through the PCG (para 3.13).
Day-to-day implementation will be carried out by MOTC's various agencies
(BRC, IWTC) and by CC and TC. By making MOTC ultimately responsible, more
effective control can be established over the transport agencies, which
are executing a substantial portion of the project and are under the
direct control of MOTC. With all agencies connected with timber opera-
tions represented on the PCG, the coordinating body, better control, and
expeditious implementation would be achieved. During negotiations, draft
arrangements to be signed between MOTC and the respective agencies (BRC,
IWTC, TC, and CC) for implementation of the applicable components of the
proposed project were discussed and agreements were reached on the content
of those documents and that they should be signed by October 1, 1985.
3.11      Under the proposed project, the recipient of funds will be MOTC,
which will also provide local funds. MOTC will temporarily retain owner-
ship of the new and rehabilitated assets (para 3.18). The assets to be
rehabilitated will be transferred from the respective agencies to MOTC
records for a nominal sum for a fixed period. Proper project accounts and
register of assets will be maintained by MOTC. At negotiations, agreement
was reached with GOB/MOTC that:  (a) MOTC will retain ownership of assets,
including rehabilitated assets; (b) records for assets procured and
rehabilitated will be maintained by MOTC; and (c) project accounts will be
subject to annual audit, and that the audited report will be submitted to
IDA within six months after the close of the fiscal year of MOTC.
3.12      In order to improve timber movement, a Project Coordination
Group (PCG - Annex 6) including user agency (TC) representation has been
created by GOB/MOTC as a subgroup of CMCC. PCG will be responsible for a
medium- and long-term planning of timber transport, as well as for solving
the day-to-day problems affecting the system. PCG should clearly identify
timber transport demands in quantity, location and time, define priorities
and the most economic way of satisfying the demand, and manage the ade-
quate functioning of the system. While PCG is not a new organization, it



-19-
differs from the CMCC in that it comprises representatives (technical
level traffic managers) from all the operational agencies involved in the
movement of timber. The purpose in creating PCC is to establish interac-
tion - currently lacking - between the transport agencies and the user
agency at a technical working level to deal specifically with timber
distribution problems. This is an important aspect of the experimental
nature of the proposed project in that it fosters the creation of such
subgroups within CMCC for planning and managing the inovement of key com-
modities and will demonstrate that such subgroups would be effective in
solving transport problems given proper backing. In support of this
concept, the PCG has been given direct access to the Deputy Minister of
MOTC, and it will function independently of CMCC proper. The Government
has accepted the recommended conceptual framework of the PCG. It has been
staffed and given an office and necessary equipment. For PCG to carry out
its coordination responsibilities, two permanent staff members of suffi-
ciently high rank from MOTC have been assigned to it with appropriate
support staff. The proposed project will include technical assistance and
training to further strengthen the PCG.
3.13      The PCG will arrange for the necessary counterpart support staff
to be drawn from appropriate agencies involved in the distribution of
timber as needed and requested by the consultants selected for the com-
prehensive study. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB/MOTC
confirming the role of PCG, its responsibility and authority, the adequacy
of provisions for its continual functioning and its responsibility for
arranging counterpart staff to the consultants undertaking the comprehen-
sive study.
3.14      In line with the proposed project, PCG is working on developing
efficient distribution plans for timber. At negotiations, these timber
transport plans were discussed and agreement reached with COBIMOTC that
the plans will be implemented. Supervision missions will monitor progress
and adjustments subsequently needed.
3.15      The comprehensive study included in the proposed project would
aim to: (a) examine the medium- and long-term constraints affecting the
distribution of timber; (b) review relevant completed studies; Cc) recom-
mend improvements in the general transport management of timber; (d) make
specific recommendations on measures Lo be taken by COB to improve the
coordination among the different agencies responsible for the distribution
of timber; and (e) recommend an indicative time-phased and priority-ranked
investment program to relieve current transport bottlenecks and economi-
cally improve the distribution of timber. The study, which would require
about 50 man months of consultant services, would not be restricted to
transport aspects, but would encompass all the elements needed to improve
the efficiency of the timber distribution system. The draft terms of
reference for such a study have been agreed with GOB; funds therefore have
been formally earmarked for it under the UNDP Umbrella Project III. During



-20-
negotiations, agreement was reached with COB on: (a) a short list of firms
who would be invited by IDA, acting as executing agency, to submit
proposals for conducting the study; and (b) a timetable for initiating and
completing the study, for review of the recommendations with IDA, and for
preparing an action program to implement recommendations, which should
start by June 30, 1989. The results of the study should be discussed and
agreed with IDA within six months after completion of the study, which is
expected to occur in mid 1988. Any follow-up project will be conditional
upon the satisfactory impLementation of selected recommendations of the
study agreed between COB and IDA. The TOR of the study are on Project File
(Annex 1).
3.16      Technical assistance and training for about 20 individuals from
the concerned organizations is proposed in three main areas: (a) training
in methods related to the new timber transport systems introduced under
the project; (b) technical assistance to PCC; and (c) operator training
for loading and unloading of logs (details in Annex 4). In addition,
special fasteners, commonly used elsewhere in the world, will be installed
on timber wagons and tried for the first time in Burma to prevent pil-
ferage of vacuum brake components. During negotiations, technical assis-
tance and training for the proposed project were discussed and agreed with
COB/MOTC.
C. Operational Conditions
3.17      In order to provide effective control and expeditious implemen-
tation, MOTC would be the beneficiary of the proceeds of the proposed
credit. In the interest of an efficient operation, and until such time as
the comprehensive study (para 3.16) is completed, MOTC would retain owner-
ship of equipment procured and also bear the cost of rehabilitation of
equipment under the proposed project. Thereafter, the matter of ownership
will be decided in the light of the recommendations of the comprehensive
study. The operating and maintenance costs of assets placed into service
and operated by the respective transport agencies (BRC and IWTC) would be
financed by TC through payment of normal tariffs, which cover these costs.
Assets (about 14% of the total) acquired under the proposed project and
assigned to TC should be operated and maintained by it. Project roads
should be maintained as part of the national highway system. During nego-
tiations, suitable arrangements between GOB and relevant agencies for the
operation and maintenance of the financed assets were discussed and
agreed, and it was also agreed that those arrangements should be signed by
October 31, 1985. The execution of this will be a condition for disburse-
ment.
3.18      The recovery of capital cost from the project beneficiary (i.e.,
the TC) is not an immediate and pressing issue. The project is experimen-
tal in nature; all agencies involved are Government corporations; it is
confined in scope to deal with timber transportation operations and does
not address, at this stage, the broader issues affecting the efficiency of
agencies involved in the movement of timber. Moreover, the financed



-21-
assets will only become fully operational five years after initiation of
the project, and the capital cost recovery issue, as well as the eventual
ownership of assets issues (para 3.18), can therefore be fully analyzed in
the comprehensive study (para 3.16), which is to be completed by mid 1988.
At that time COB, in consultation with IDA, will decide on the most
appropriate capital cost recovery system.
3.19      Operational targets have been set with the purpose of increasing
the efficiency of the system. Currently, about 3 1/2 years' production of
timber is stored at the forestry extraction sites, and about one year's
export volume is stored at the Port of Rangoon. The proposed project
would increase the transport capacity between the 1!xtractinn sites and
Rangoon, thus reducing the timber stock of up-country and increasing the
requirement for efficient trans-shipment at Rangoon in order to avoid the
build up of timber stocks there. An important precondition to achieving
the purposes of the project, therefore, would be to improve timber
trans-shipment at Rangoon. During negotiations, agreements with COB were
reached on an inmmediate reduction to a level equivalent to about half the
estimated annual arrivals for the timber stocked at the Port of Rangoon
and longer-term targets for the substantial drawdown of timber stocks in a
period of about seven years at forestry extraction sites, as well as at
road and railway timber depots. While the timber stock drawdown at Rangoon
would begin immediately, the drawdown of timber stock at the extraction
sites would commence only when the project components have been acquired
and have become operative from the third year onwards.  The present high
level of stocks is due to inefficiencies in the distribution system rather
than to unfavorable world market conditions because of the already stated
quasi-monopolistic position of Burma in world forest product markets,
specially for teak (para 2.20), which represents a high percentage of
current stock volumes.
H. Procurement
3.20      All items financed by the Bank Group will be procured by the
respective agencies on behalf of MOTC through internationaL competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines except for:
(a) contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or less, where the advantage
of ICB would clearly be outweighted by the administrative burden
thereof;
(b) the Training and Technical Assistance component, which will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency; and



-22-
(c) proprietary items which COB procures from particular sources
because of the need for procurement under license or for con-
tinued standardization of equipment.
Proprietary items, materials and parts of specific make required for
fasteners and rehabilitation of locomotives were identified and agreed
with COB/MOTC during negotiations. Total amount of contracts less than
US$100,000 equivalent, not covered by ICB, is estimated to represent less
than US$1.0 million. Local manufacturers are expected to bid for some
items under the project, and a domestic preference of 15% or the import
duty, whichever is less, would be applied in bid evaluation.
3.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Arrangements
(Estimated Cost in US$ Million)
Project Element                           Procurement Method
Departmental
ICB    LCB    LIT    Process I/   Other    Total
Civil Works                                      2.12                  2.12
(-)                   (-)
Plant & Machinery &    19.70   1.40   3.50       1.28                 25.88
Materials            (13.45) (1.40) (2.50)    (-)                  (17.35)
Training & T.A.                                              0.40 2/   0.40
(0.40)    (0.40)
Comprehensive Study                                          0.60 3/   0.60
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   C - )~~~~~~~,  _   ( - )
Totals                  19.70   1.40   3.50      3.40        1.00)    29.00
(13.45) (1.40) (2.50)    (-)         (0.40)   (17.75)
Note:  Figures in parentheses indicate proposed IDA financing and estimated
total costs are inclusive of taxes and duties.
l/ Railway forces to be used for railway track work and
highway forces to be used for highway improvement work.
2/ According to Bank/IDA guidelines.
_/  To be financed by UNDP/COB.



-23-
I. Disbursements
3.22      Previous experience, as reflected in actual disbursements
profiles of prior IDA transport projects, indicates that implementation
has been generally on schedule. However, there are no projects in the
package for which the disbursement profiles have been prepared with which
a comparison for the proposed project can be drawn. Therefore, given that
preparation work has been adequate, GOB is fully supporting the project,
and the project implementation unit (PCG) is already in place, the
estimated schedule of disbursement is reasonable for the proposed project
(Table 9). Disbursements are expected to be completed by September 30,
1989. The closing date of the proposed project will be March 31, 1990.
Disbursements under the project will be made against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported items;
(b) 100% of exfactory cost of locally manufactured items;
(c) 65% of local cost of locally pro-ired items, off-the-shelf; and
(d) 100Z of the foreign and local costs of training and technical
assistance.
Subject to review and agreement with the Bank Group, savings in any
category of the proceeds will be available to cover increases in any other
category except proprietary items. During negotiations, the disbursement
schedule, shown in Table 9, was discussed and agreed with GOB/MOTC.
J.  Environmental Impact
3.23      The logs transfer system by barge and container operations in
az1 around the city of Rangoon will reduce congestion in the city. None
of the other proposed works in the project are expected to have any
adverse influence on the environment.
K. Reporting
3.24      To facilitate monitoring the implementation of the proposed
project,
agreement was reached at negotiations with GOB/MOTC to: (a) submit
quarterly reports to IDA in agreed specified formats; (b) submit minutes
of the formal meetings held by PCG within one month of the date of meet-
ing; (c) maintain a separate register for assets acquired under the
proposed project; (d) maintain a separate account of expenditures relating
to the project; and (e) prepare a project completion report within six
months of the closing date of the credit.



-24-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The proposed project is in line with both the country's and
IDA's objectives in the agricultural and transport sectors and is designed
to help improve transportation and distribution of timber by establishing
a mechanism (PCG) for improved planning ard allocation of traffic, upgrad-
ing transport capacity of various modes iLJolved, introducing new, more
efficient and cost-effective methods for timber handling and movement, and
improving operations and maintenance. Quantified benefits from the
proposed project would accrue mainly in the form of transport (88%) and
handling (12%) cost savings. Nonquantified benefits would also accrue in
terms of reduction in timber losses, and in gradual reduction of inter-
mediate log inventories.
4.02      Benefits indicated in the preceding paragraph are mainly due to
the physical components of the project, whose main purpose is to remove
some of the transport/distribution bottlenecks in the present system. But
there is also a sizable number of nontransport bottlenecks which are the
result of marketing, traditional operations, logistic and various proce-
dures internal to the handling of timber, which greatly- aggravate the
strained transport capacity. Improvements in these area , which will be
thoroughly analyzed in the comprehensive study (para 3.16) included in the
project, will enhance the efficiency of the whole operation, with sub-
sequent savings in transport and handling costs.
4.03      The increased transport capacity for hardwoods is expected to
have an indirect, nonquantified beneficial effect on teak export earnings
as well, because domestic needs for sawnwood would be satisfied to a
greater extent by hardwoods, where at present exportable teak is consumed.
Other nonquantifiable benefits will accrue through technical assistance
and training.
4.04      TC would be the iiiain beneficiary because the proposed project
aims: (a) to facilitate the movement of timber in the country and for
export; and (b) through the study, to identify and find solutions for the
major issues affecting the transport/distribution of timber. Also, tran-
sport agencies would be able to provide improved services to adequately
satisfy the traffic demand.
4.05      Economic evaluations have been undertaken separately for the
main subcomponents, which comprise railways and handling improvements,
road rehabilitation, and utilization of new systems in Burma for transport
of timber such as barges and containers. No separate economic evaluation
has been carried out for the improvement of the Okkyin log depot, the
study, and technical assistance and training, all of which amount to 4% of



-25-
total project costs. However, these costs were included without quantify-
ing their benefits in the calculation of the ERR for the entire project.
Conservatively, only benefits to timber traffic have been included,
although other kinds of traffic using the same infrastructure, e.g, roads,
which has been improved under the proposed project but is not confined to
timber use alone, might also benefit from improvements of some facilities.
DetaiLs of the calculations of benefits and costs can be found on the
Project File (Annex l), and Annex 7 includes the expected annual timber
traffic volumes which wilL be transported by the main proposed project
subcomponents.
4.06      The economic cost of each subcomponent has been obtained by
deducting from the financial cost all relevant taxes, duties, and price
contingencies. Also, economic benefits are exclusive of taxes and duties.
Moreover, certain materials and labor components have been shadow priced.
For example, the economic cost of labor was estimated on the basis of an
assessment of marginal productivity in alternate employment and has been
assumed to be 66% of wage rate for unskilled labor while no adjustment was
made for skilled labor. Also, the economic price of diesel has been
assumed to be 12 K/Imp. gallon as opposed to the official price of 2.5
K/Imp. gallon. The economic analysis assumes a period of investment of
three years, followed by an operating period of 20 years.
B. Economic Evaluation of Proposed Project Subcomponents
Myitkyina Region
4.07      This region has the natural conditions for producing a sizable
volume of timber, but because of the growing gap between the needed and
available transport capacity to transport timber out of the region, the
backlog located at different railway stations in the region is estimated
to be about 65,000 Ht of dry teak, 5,000 Ht of padauk, and 10,000 Ht of
hardwoods, and the expected annual production in the region is estimated
to be 36,000 Ht, 2,000 Ht, and 26,000 Ht, respectively.  Transport is a
severe bottleneck to the materialization of the economic benefits of
timber in this region, and therefore it is urgent to find ways of improv-
ing its performance.
4.08      Transport improvements in the region should be analyzed as
integrated systems because of the strong interdependence of possible
subcomponents. Two main alternatives were selected for the analysis based
on two different criteria: (a) the first alternative aims to concentrate
all the expected traffic on the present transport facility, Myitkyna-
Sagaing railway line, which will obviously demand major improvements; and
(b) the second alternative is designed to divert part of that traffic to
other suitable transport means, thus relieving some of the pressure on the
existing railway line.



-26-
4.09      The first alternative requires improvement in operation and
maintenance of the railway line Myitkyna-Sagaing to be able to carry the
expected annual production and to eliminate the backlog in a period of ten
years; this would require the provision of adequate motive power and
rolling stock units, major improvements in the track, substantial improve-
ments in repair facilities and spare parts, and redesign of some depots,
together with the provision of adequate handling facilities in the whole
system and major improvements at Sagaing depot to cope with the big
increase in volume to be rafted at this important intermediate station.
The second alternative is based on the fact that the railway line Myit-
kyna-Sagaing runs basically parallel and close to a navigable portion of
the Irrawaddy River, and consequently it seeks to improve and/or
rehabilitate traffic links between the railway and the river to which
timber traffic can be diverted, such as: (a) Naba-Katha, which provides
rail as well as road connection (approximately 15 miles) between the
Myitkyna-Sagaing railway line and the Irrawady River; and (b) Wuntho-
Tigyaing road connection (approximately 50 miles). This system would
require also consistent improvements at the rafting depots at Sagaing,
Katha, and Tigyaing. The annual volume to be moved by either alternative
is 72,000 St, which represents the annual production plus one-tenth of the
present backlog.
4.10      For the economic analysis 1/, the first alternative was compared
with the do-nothing alternative, which it was assumed would be able to
transport only 41,000 Ht 2/ per year as compared with the total annual
volume of 72,000 Ht to be carried by either one of the two analyzed alter-
natives. Under conservative assumptions, the first alternative was found
to be economically feasible with an ERR of 25Z. Next, a marginal economic
analysis of the two subcomponents of the second alternative was carried
out: the Naba-Katha improvement has an incremental ERR of 45% and the
Wuntho-Tigyaing road an incremental ERR of 15%, both over the first alter-
native. Therefore, the second alternative is selected; the ERR of this
alternative, with respect to the do-nothing, is 23%.
IVTC Barging
4.11      One set of barges, comprising one pusher tug and five 500 t
barges (four in operation and one spare), will be procured on an
experimental basis to serve Monywa for padauk logs only and Sagaing for
padauk logs and teak export lumber. It will be a dedicated service,
carrying a total annual volume of 6,000 Ht of padauk logs (4,000 Ht from
1/ Details would be found in Annex 8.
2/ The maximum volume reached in any one year over the past five years.



-27-
Monywa and the rest from Sagaing) and 3,500 St of lumber destined for
Rangoon.
4.12      Benefits from the barge system have been estimated in terms of
transport and handling cost savings with respect to the following alterna-
tive system: (a) the entire 4,000 Ht of padauk at Monywa would be taken
out of the water, trucked to the next railway station (14 miles), loaded
on wagons, and railed to Rangoon (457 miles); and (b) padauk logs and sawn
timber originated in Sagaing would be sent by rail to Rangoon (392 miles).
It was also assumed conservatively that there would be no railway capacity
constraints to the provision of the described service. Under these condi-
tions, investment in the barge system would be justified with an ERR of 27%.
TC Tug and Barges
4.13      The proposed project would provide one tug boat and four 100 t
Landing Tank Type (LTT) barges to transport export sawn timber from the
local mills in Rangoon to ship side, where the lumber will be directly
loaded into the ship. While the movement of logs from Rangoon depots to
shipside is also envisioned, sawn timber should have priority on the use
of the equipment and therefore, conservatively, the full cost of the unit
is analyzed only against the projected bargeable sawn timber export volume
of 10,000 St/year.
4.14      Benefits are estimated as savings in transport cost due to the
utilization of the barge system as opposed to trucking the sawn timber to
the ship side.  It was further assumed that the barge system wilL permit
some reduction in ship loading time. Under these assumptions, the barge
system is well justified with an ERR of 37%.
Prome Line Log Transport
4.15      The proposed project would provide needed railway equipment to
permit a more economic allocation of log traffic volumes originating in
this area and destined for Rangoon. Break-even analyses indicate that the
dry teak and hardwood logs arriving at Prome (12,000 Ht/year) and Hmawza
(8,500 Ht/year) should continue to be trucked to water and towed to Ran-
goon, while the rest (20,500 Ht/year) should more economically be tran-
sported by rail to Rangoon. At the present time, only 2,000 Ht/year is
transported by rail from this area.
4.16      Benefiti are calculated as transport cost savings with and
without this project component. The no-project situation assumes, as is
now happening, that apart from the above-mentioned Prome and Hmawza
volumes, which are trucked/towed to Rangoon, the remaining is trucked to
the Rangoon River (average distance 60 miles) and rafted and towed about
20 miles to Rangoon Port. Under these conditions, the additional railway
equipment is well justified with an ERR of 39%.



-28-
Pyinmana Line Log Transport
4.17      Lack of availability of railway equipment is distorting log
traffic allocation and consequently increasing the total transport cost.
The proposed project includes additional railway equipment to improve the
present situation. The center of gravity for the projected volumes from
the Pyinmana area (50,000 Ht/year of green teak and 10,000 Ht/year of
hardwood) was assumed to be at a place located at 257 rail miles from
Rangoon. The railway equipment presently available in this region has the
capacity to transport 50,000 Ht annually, and the additional requirement
of 10,000 Ht will be met by the proposed project's equipment.
4.18      To estimate benefits in the project situation, it is assumed
that the 60,000 Ht/year would be moved by railways, whereas in the
no-project situation the shortfall of 10,000 lt would be moved to Rangoon
by truck, which is an expensive proposition but was found to have lower
transport cost than trucking to Magwe (90 miles) followed by rafting to
Rangoon (90 miles). Under those assumptions, the additional railway
equipment is justified with an ERR of 76%.
Containerization of Lumber
4.19      This subcomponent would provide transport and handling equipment
to permit the utilization of some of the containers which at present
arrive in Rangoon with imported cargo and are returned empty. Twenty-five
percent of lumber, scantlings, and log ends originated in sawmills around
Rangoon Port are expected to be containerized, which will reduce ship
loading time, damage and losses and will also improve marketing conditions.
4.20      Benefits are estimated as the difference in total transport and
handling cost between moving the lumber in containers or using the tradi-
tional trucks. The estimated total annual volume to be containerized is
17,500 St, and a potential damage/loss of noncontainerized shipments is
estimated at 0.5% of the lumber value. Under these assumptions, the
subcomponent is well justified with an ERR of 36%.
CC Sawn Timber Transport
4.21      Due to unavailability of railway equipment, CC transports at
present all its needs of sawn timber from Upper and Central Burma to
Rangoon by truck, in some cases over distances where railways has clear
economic advantages as compared with trucks. The project would provide
railway equipment to permit rail transport of about 12,000 St of sawn
timber for CC from Sagaing, Honywa, and Handalay to Rangoon (average
distance of 475 miles). The economic analysis is based on transport and
handling costs savings, and the result is a high ERR of 57%.



-29-
C. Overall Evaluation
4.22      The project's overall economic return is 35Z, including the cost
of components not separately evaluated. A sensitivity analysis indicates
that a decrease in benefits of 20% would reduce the overall rate of return
to 25%, while a 20% increase in costs would reduce it to 26%; a combina-
tion of a 10% increase in cost and 10Z decrease in benefits would yield a
rate of return of 26%.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
4.23      The following table presents the economic rates of return for
these sensitivity cases: (a) 20% increase in capital cost; (b) 20%
decrease in economic benefits; and (c) 10% increase in capital cost
together with a 10% decrease in benefits. Under these assumptions, the
ERR of all components remain above the opportunity cost of capital assumed
to be 12%.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR Z)
20% Cost   20% Benefit    10%, Cost Increase
Component                      Increase    Decrease       and Benefit Decrease
Myitkyina Line                    19           18                 19
IWTC Barging                      22           21                 21
TC Tug and Barges                 30           28                 29
Prome Line                        32           31                 31
Pyinmana Line                     61           59                 60
Containerization of Timber        29           28                 29
CC Sawn Timber Transport          46           44                 46
TOTAL                             26           25                 26
E. Risks
4.24      All project components involve proven technology and therefore
technical risks connected with the project are small. The project
impLementation would require a good coordination of the activities of
several agencies. Risks from inadequate project implementation are there-
fore present, but mechanisms have been proposed, e.g., PCG (paras 3.13 to
3.15) and MOTC control (paras 3.11 and 3.18) under the project to minimize
risks.



-30-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOB/MOTC on
the following matters:
(a) consolidation of loading points (para 2.35);
(b)  design of the Katha and Sagaing log depots (para 2.42).
(c)  project cost estimates (para 3.08);
(d)  MOTC will provide local funds for the project (para 3.09);
(e)  implementation schedule (para 3.09);
(f)  arrangements between MOTC and respective agencies (BRC, IWTC,
TC, and CC) for implementation of applicable components
(para 3.10);
(g)  MOTC will: (i) temporarily retain ownership of assets, including
rehabilitated assets; (ii) maintain records for assets; and
(iii) submit audited accounts within six months after the close
of the fiscal year (para 3.11);
(h)  definition, responsibility, authority of PCC, and that it will
arrange for counterpart staff for the comprehensive study
(para 3.13);
(i)  agreed timber transport plan(s) will be implemented (para 3.14);
(j)  (i) short list of firms for conducting a comprehensive study
on timber distribution; and (ii) timetable for initiating and
completing the study, for review of the recommendations with IDA
and for preparing an action program (para 3.15);
(k)  details of technical assistance and training (para 3.16);
(l)  suitable arrangements between GOB and relevant agencies for the
operation and maintenance of the financed assets; execution of
those arrangements will become condition of disbursements
(para 3.17);
(m)  immediate reduction to a level equivalent to about half the
estimated annual arrivals for the timber stocks at Rangoon and
longer term targets for the substantial drawdown of timber
stocks in a period of about seven years at extraction sites and
at road and rail depots(para 19);



-31-
(n) list of proprietary items (para 3.20);
(o) disbursement schedule (para 3.22); and
(p) reporting requirements (para 3.24).
5.02      Based on the agreements reached on the foregoing, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$17.75 million
equivalent.



-32-
Annex 1
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. GOB Forest Feasibility Study, Timber Extraction Studies, Sandwell
Management Consultants, December 1977
2. GOB Forest Feasibility Study, Forest Resources Study, Sandwell
Management Consultants, February 1978
3. Burma, IDA Identification Mission, Timber Transport/Distribution
Project, Consultants Messrs. N. Davey and K. Paulsen, July 1983
4. Burma, Appraisal of the Second Forestry Project, ADB, June 1982
5. Burma, Review of the Project Implementation East Pegu Yoma Forestry
Project, Timber Corporation, September 1983
6. Burma, Review of Project Implementation, ADB (II), Timber Corporation,
September 1983
7. Burma, Review of Project Implementation, ADB (I), Timber Corporation,
September 1983
8. Burma, Performance and Planned Targets of ADB (I), Timber Corporation,
February 1984
9. Burma, 1983 Export Prices for Teak and Hardwoods, Timber Corporation,
October 1983
10. Burma, Proposals for Improvement of Export Timber Movement, Timber
Corporation, November 1983
11. Burma, Functions of Log Sales and Depots, Timber Corporation,
November 1983
12. Burma, Improvements for Log Storage and Export Depots at Rangoon,
Timber Corporation, November 1983
13. Burma, Railway Operations, ADB II, Mr. K. Thapar, December 1983
14. Burma, Appraisal of Forestry Project, IDA Report No. 374a-BA,
May 1974
15.  Burma, Staff Appraisal of Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project,
IDA II, Report No. 2463-BA, JVLy 1979
16. Burma, Staff Appraisal of Wood Industries I Project, IDA Report
No. 3162-BA, February 1981



-33-                                Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
17. Burma, Staff Appraisal of Wood Industries II Project, IDA Report
No. 4596-BA, December 1983
18. Burma, Appraisal of a Third Railway Project, IDA Report No. 172-BA,
May 1983
19. Burma, Appraisal of an Inland Water Transport Project, IDA Report
No. 171-BA, May 1973
20. Burma, Appraisal of the Burma Railway Development Project, IBRD
Report No. TO-263a, January 1961
21. Burma, Appraisal of the Rangoon-Prome Road Project, ADB Report
No. BUR-AP-23, September 1983
22.  Burma, Some Facts on Production for Export Commodities Transport,
Timber Corporation, May 1983
23. Burma, Staff Appraisal for Third Port Project, IDA Report No. 4339-BA,
April 1983
24.  USA, set of papers concerning Inland Water Transport, August 1983
25. Bangladesh, Staff Appraisal for Fertilizer Transport, IDA Report
No. 2957-BD, July 1980
26. Burma, Priorities for Continued Growth, WB Report No. 3852-BA, May 1982
27. Burma, Policies and Prospects for Economic Adjustment and Growth,
WB Report No. 4814-BA, December 1983
28. Burma, Transport Sector Memorandum, Draft, WB, September 1984
29. Burma, Staff Appraisal for Third Port Project, IDA Report No. 4339-BA,
April 1983
30. Burma, Staff Appraisal for Construction Industry Project, IDA Report
No. 3809-BA, April 1982
31. Economic Analyses, ERR Calculations, Computer Print-outs, Sensitivity
Analyses for the Proposed Project
32. Agreed Terms of Reference for the Comprehensive Study Included in the
Proposed Project (para 3.16)
33. Burma, Notes for Discussions at Negotiations, April 1985



-34-
Annex 2
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Central Movement Coordination Committee
Organization
1.      The Movement Coordination Committees are formed by the Ministry of
Transport and Communications at three levels, viz., the Central Movement
Coordination Committee, the State/Division Movement Coordination Committee,
and Township Movement Coordination Committees. Composition of these movement
Coordination Committees is as follows:
Central Movement Coordination Committee
D- Deputy Minister,                                     Chairman
Transport and Communications Ministry
-- Managing Director,                                    Member
Burma Railways Corporation
-- Managing Director,                                    Member
Road Transport Corporation
=- Managing Director,                                    Member
Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation
-- Managing Director,                                    Member
Burma Ports Corporation
-- Director General,                                     Secretary
Transport and Communications Planning
and Operations Department
State and Division Movement Coordination Committee
-- Chairman                                              Chairman
(E.C.) State/Division Peoples Council
(or)
-- One of the E.C. members nominated by the              Member
State/Division (E.C.) Peoples' Council



-35-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
-- Two E.C. Members nominated by the State/               Member
Division (E.C.) Peoples' Council
-- Representatives from the State Transport               Member
Organization
-- Sales Manager,                                         Member
State/Division Petroleum Products Supply
Corporation
-- Representative,                                        Member
State/Division Vehicles and Machinery Stores
Trade Corporation
-- State/Divisional Officer                               Secretary
State/Division Transport and Communications
Planning and Operation Department
Township Movement Coordination Committee
-- Chairman,                                              Chairman
(E.C.) Township Peoples' Council
-- Two E.C. Members nominated by the Township             Member
(E.C.) Peoples' Council
-- Representatives from the State Transport               Member
Organizations
-- Township Officer,                                      Secretary
Township Transport and Communications
Planning and Operation Department
2.      All official functions of the Central Movement Coordination Committee
and State/Division Movement Coordination Committees are carried out by the
staff of the Transport and Communications Planning Operation Department. At
the township levels where Transport and Communications Planning and Operation
Department township offices are located, all official duties of the Township
Movement Coordination Committee are undertaken by the staff of the Transport
and Communications Planning and Operation Department.
3.      Township Movement Coordination Committees are not established in each
and every township, but only in townships where it is deemed necessary and
crucial in the way of transport.



-36-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Aims and Objectives
4.      Aims and objectives of the Movement Coordination Comnittee are as
follows:
(a) to coordinate the smooth flow of state-owned freight by using all
available transport in the following order: state-owned, coopera-
tive-owned, and private-owned;
(b) to coordinate the utilization of transport facilities with a view to
achieve optimum benefit to both users and caterers of transport;
(c) to coordinate and make necessary arrangements when problems and
difficulties arise in the transportation of passengers; and
(d) to collect necessary data and statistics, which will be useful in
planning of transport.
Operational Aspects
5.      Transport demands are categorized into planned movement and non-
planned movement:
(a) Planned movements are haulage and distribution of seasonal and major
commodities such as paddy, rice, fertilizers, c-ment, and timber. To
implement this type of movement the Movement Coordination Committee,
at various and respective levels, initiate and sponsor regular weekly
and monthly coordination meetings between the users and carriers.
The Movement Coordination Committees are also responsible for the
allocation of fuel for the carriers.
(b)  Nonplanned movements, as opposed to planned move;ents, are for the
haulage of goods and commodities for nonpredictable demands and, as
such, are implemented on an ad-hoc basis.
(c) Utilization of carrier priority are state-owned carriers, coopera-
tive-owned carriers, and private-owned carriers.
Source: Ministry of Transport and Communication
February 1984



-37-
Annex 3
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
List of Railway Stations to be Developed
as Primary Timber Shipping Points
1. Hopin
2. Kadu
3. Nansiaung
4. Nankhan
5.  ''untho
6. Chatthin
7.  Zawchaung
8. Thantabin
9. Namma



-38-
Annex 4
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Details of Project Components
Myitkyina Line
1.      Katha, located at the navigable portion of the Irrawaddy River,
has road as well as rail connection to Naba on the main north-south
road/rail system between Sagaing and Myitkyina. Presently only a rela-
tively small log volume is transported to Katha by truck and rafted at
this location. The appraisal mission identified Katha as a potential
major rafting depot for logs presently transported by rail from the north-
ern section of the Myitkyina line.
2.      Use of the Katha rail routing could relieve some of the pressure
on the presently overtaxed rail capacity. The main constraints to the
immediate use of this line for log transport are: heavy gradients,
shortages of powerful locomotives, and lack of braking systems on the log
wagons as well as shortage of wagons. The Katha station is located within
about one mile of the river depot. Although trucks could be used for the
short rehaul to the river, it is feasible to extend the rail line along an
abandoned grade directly to the river depot. Under this concept, it is
proposed that improvements also should be made to the depot facilities.
About 40,000 Ht of the traffic volume on the Myitkyina line could
favorably be shipped through Katha. The Naba-Katha road improvement would
aid in reducing some of the accumulated inventories in the area and create
additional revenues to the GOB. The road is presently quite rough and
needs upgrading to all-weather standard. This improvement work can be
implemented in a short time.
3.      The project proposes to upgrade existing roads and construct new
roads to provide an all-weather road connection from Wuntho to Tigyaing on
the Irrawaddy River. While this road will allow truck transport of logs
directly to the rafting depot at Tigyaing from accumulated inventories at
Wuntho railway station, it will also serve concurrent production tributary
to the road to the east and west of the Nyitkyina rail line. When railway
capacity is restored, log production near and to the west of the rail line
is expected to revert to rail transport for economic reasons. While the
road will continue to serve the forest areas and public access between the
rail and the river, it will also provide an alternative route for log
transport should the railways experience future capacity problems. A
concentrated effort should be made to complete this road link as soon as
possible to be able to move some of the inventory located at Wuntho.



-39-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
4.      The rail yard at Sagaing is presently the termination point of all
logs (with the possible exception of export padauk) transported by rdil on
the Myitkyina line. Rail wagons are unloaded by front-end log loaders,
and the logs are dragged to the water by mechanized log skidders or water
buffalos. The wagons often suffer substantial damage to the stakes and
bolsters under the present unloading procedure. The area along the track
is congested, irregular, and poorly surfaced.
5.      To provide efficient log handling and improved turn-around time
for log trains at the Sagaing yard, new equipment and moderate redesign of
the yard layout is proposed. It is proposed that the outside track be
removed to accommodate a 20-rail wagon long, 60-foot wide, all-weather
surfaced unloading and intermediate storage area along the next track. It
is also proposed that a well-anchored concrete runway be constructed at
grade level from the unloading area down to the low water level of the
river, preferably as close to the center of the working area as possible.
Crawler-mounted hydraulic grapple log loaders are proposed for unloading
of the rail wagons and intermediate stacking, while rubber tired front-end
log loaders are considered most efficient for carrying the logs to the
water for rafting. This component will include:
(a) repower three diesel locomotives;
(b) purchase 30 new log wagons and 2 brake vans;
(c) land acquisition, survey, level crossings, service buildings,
earth work, track work, etc.;
(d) depot lighting equipment, all-weather surfacing, concrete runway;
(e) purchase one new crawler-mounted hydraulic grapple log loader and
two rubber tired front-end log loaders;
(f) improvement to the 15 mile road section from Naba to Katha;
(g) provision of bitumen for same section;
(h) purchase of one road roller;
(i) upgrade to all-weather standard about 16 miles of the Wuntho-Zigon
road from Wuntho to its intersection with the new Shwebo-Indaw
highway;
(j) provide bitumen for about 24 miles of the Shwebo-Indaw highway
from the Wuntho-Sigon intersection to the Meza Bridge;
(k) construct or upgrade to all-weather standard about 10 miles of
road from Meza Bridge to the rafting depot at Tigyaing;



-40-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
(l) purchase one new road grader (CC) and one new road roller;
(m) redesign of the Sagaing rail yard;
(n) levelling and all-weather surfacing of working area;
(o) construction of concrete runway; and
(p) purchase of one new crawler-mounted hydraulic grapple log loader
and two rubber-tired, front-end log loaders.
The Myitkyina Line improvement is estimated to cost K95.1 million
(US$10.68 million) with a foreign exchange component of K 50.4 million
(US$5.66 million).
Prome Rail Line - Log Transport
6.      Shortage of railway rolling stock has reduced log transport on the
Prome line from over 20,000 Ht in 1978/79 to a mere trickle of 2,000 Ht in
1982/83. This has resulted in expensive, fuel-consuming truck transport
over distances exceeding 50 miles to the Rangoon River near Hmawbi and
additional assembling, rafting, and towing costs for a distance of only 20
miles down river to Rangoon. A large proportion of the production from
the area is in the form of green teak and hardwoods. It is important that
the green teak is expediently transported to the market to recover as high
a price as possible for the logs. Furthermore, rafted green teak is
subject to degrading water stain. It is, therefore, essential that rail-
way capacity for log transport on this line be increased as needed. This
component will include:
(a) repower 2 diesel locomotives;
(b) purchase of 10 new timber wagons and 2 brake vans; and
(c) rehabilitation of 30 timber wagons.
This project component is estimated to cost K20.01 million (US$2.25 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of K12.7 million (US$1.43 million).
Pyinmana Line
7.      To replace 30 old rail wagons, scheduled to be scrapped and to
provide additional locomotive power, the project proposes to provide
financing for the following:
(a) repower 2 diesel locomotives;
(b) rehabilitate 30 timber wagons for log transport; and
(c) purchase 2 new brake vans.



-41-
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
This project component is estimated to cost K18.5 million (US$2.08 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of K11.8 million (US$1.33 million).
Transport of CC Sawn Timber
8.      The Construction Corporation annually transports about 24,000 St
of timber products by truck to Rangoon from mills located in Upper and
Central Burma. Shortage of rail wagons is again cited as the main reason
for this expensive and wasteful mode of transportation. The project
therefore, proposes to provide financing for the following equipment to
transport a portion of CC needs:
(a) repower one diesel locomotive; and
(b) purchase 20 new hi-side wagons for sawn timber.
This proposed project component is estimated to cost K 20.8 million
(US$2.33 million) with a foreign exchange component of K 14.3 million
(US$1.61 million).
Containerization and Ship Loading
9.      Most containers presently arriving in Rangoon with goods are
returned empty. The pilot project proposes to use some of these con-
tainers for return shipment of lumber, scantlings, and log ends. While
this will reduce ship loading time, damage, and losses, marketing will
also be improved. It is proposed that simple loading ramps be constructed
at selected sawmills. The containers will be left on trailers at the
sawmill and end-loaded manually or by fork lift truck from the ramp.
Refinement of palletizing will be required for some types of material.
Facilities are available at the Rangoon Harbor container yard for trailer
unloading and loading. Financing is proposed for acquisition of the
following equipment and supplies:
(a) four fork lift trucks for container loading (TC);
(b) twelve trailers for container transport (TC);
(c) two truck trailer tractors (TC); and
(d) various packing items, such as steel banding, tools, etc., (TC).
This proposed project component is estimated to cost K 9.3 million
(US$1.05 million) with a foreign exchange component of K 6.4 million
(US$0.72 million).



-42-
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Barge Transport - IWTC
10.     Rafting and river towing of sinkers, particularly high value
species such as green teak and padauk, is exepnsive and time consuming.
It is therefore proposed that one of the components of this proposed
project tests the feasibility of barge transport of logs. No logs have
been transported by barge system in Burma. Under the proposed project it
will be tried for the first time and it holds good potential for wider use
of this type of system in the future. The transport of padauk and sawn
timber on the Chindwin River appears to offer an opportunity to test the
barge.
11.     Monywa, on the Chindwin River, is served by rail and highway from
Mandalay from Sagaing, and by river transport on the Chindwin and
Irrawaddy River systems. A shortage of serviceable timber wagons has
resulted in an accumulation of about 4,300 Ht of padauk logs at the Monywa
rail depot. Almost one half of the logs stored at this location, or
2,000 Ht, are already sold to foreign buyers. This is the only known
location to which log buyers actually travel outside Rangoon to purchase
export logs. At the past year's rate of rail transport, it will take
almost a year to transport the logs already sold. Continued production at
projected levels will gradually increase the depot inventory, unless other
means of transport are developed. Padauk is subject to more serious
cracking during storage than teak. Any lengthy storage on dry land will
therefore have a deteriorating effect on quality and price. The loss in
foreign exchange earnings and damage to customer relations caused by these
delayed shipments are substantial.
12.     The project provides barge trains an pusher tugs to IWTC for log
and sawn timber transport on the Chindwin and Irrawaddy rivers. Financing
is proposed for the following equipment purchases in this component:
(a) purchase of engines and steel for 1 new pusher tug;
(b) purchase of steel for 5 log barges; and
(c) purchase of 1 five-ton, long boom, crawler-mounted log crane with
log grapples.
The tug barges will be constructed by IWTC's own shipyard in Rangoon. The
proposed project component is estimated to cost K 24.7 million (US$2.77
million) with a foreign exchange component of K 12.9 million (US$1.45
million).



-43-
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Rangoon Harbor Area
13.     The project proposes to supply funding for additional TC barge
capacity to increase the efficiency of ship-side loading of logs and
lumber in Rangoon harbor. The barges are proposed to be non-power landing
craft type for efficient roll-on loading of logs and lumber. The project
component consists of the following items:
(a) purchase of 1, 200 HP tug boat;
(b) purchase of steel for 4, 100 ton barges, which will be constructed
by TC's own shipyard; and
(c) road and yard improvements including bitumen for Okkyin Log Depot.
This project component is estimated to cost K 9.2 million (US$Sl.04 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of K 4.9 million (US$0.55 million).
Training and Technical Assistance
14.     Training and technical assistance is proposed in these areas:
(a) PCG, a subgroup of CMCC, will be responsible for planning and
managing the distribution of timber. Considering the complexity
involved in these tasks and the inefficiencies found at present in
CMCC (text, para 2.26), the project will provide financing for PCC
members and technical supporting staff to visit similar types of
organizations and/or attend relevant university courses outside
the country. PCG will also get technical advise through maintain-
ing a permanent contact with the consulting firm in charge of
conducting the comprehensive study;
(b) the proposed project would assist GOB in introducing timber trar-
sport systems which have not been used before in Burma, such as
barges, containers, and some handling equipment. Therefore,
provisions have been made in the proposed project to finance
training in these areas; and
(c) needs have been identified for specialized operator training in
log barge loading and operation, hydraulic log loader operation,
container lumber and pallet loading, and ship log loading.
Details of the technical assistance and a training program for about 20
individuals from the concerned organizations, including costs of consult-
ing services, was discussed and agreed with COB at negotiations. The
estimated cost for this project components is K 3.6 million (US$0.4
million) with a foreign exchange component of K 1.8 million (US$SO.2
million).



-44-
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Comprehensive Study
15.     The study is described in general terms in para 3.16 of the text
and in detail in the Terms of Reference already agreed with GOB and which
form part of the Project File.



-45-
Annex 5
BNUKA,
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
-Implementation Schedule
Year:                           I 19851    1986   1    1987   1   1988   1 1989
Quarter:                         1 31 41 11 21 31 41 11 21 31 41 11 21 31 41 11 21
Activity Schedule
I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I  1  l   I  I  I  I  I  I
Credit  Effective                  I    I  I    I    I    I    I    I    I  I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Specification & Tendering       11-I1n1I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Procurement & Delivery              '==  f.M MMMui=iIrn.i-l  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Rehabilitation or ConstructLuu  J--in-InIl           lII-IinI1f   I  I  I  I
Commissioning                   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I   I   I"-1    1  1  1
Road Construction                      I I mm I mm IoinI' IMMIMmI '   I =ImmI   1   1   11
Other Civil Works               1  1  I--II-I-1-          II       I     I      I
Operations Schedule             I  I  I  I  I  I  |  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Naba-Katha Rail Haul            I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1
' '-- Katha Trucking             I  I  I  1  I                                m I  I  I  I  I   1-I""'mIMM
Rail Expansion            I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  11inIIin-1         I-I.1
Timber Rail Haul           I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1  1-1''1I-'I'I
.ana Rail Expansion         I  I  1  1  1  I  1  1  1  11in1 1 -mII'1
16  do Trucking                  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I''inIII**'I
Sagaing Operational             I  I  I  I  I  I --I-II--IIi--IIII--
Log Barging - IVTC              I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I   l--lI-a-u
Rangoon Barging                 I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1  1''1''11
Containers/Ship Ldg.            I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I inIminIIIf-Ii1I-1I1-I
Okkyin Log Depot                I  I   I  I  1   1''1-1-1'-1-1-1--1'1-1-'
Comprehensive Study,                              I  I  I                     I  I
Invitations                        I    I  I  I    I    I    I    I    I  I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Receive Proposals               lil  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Reviev and Award                I  11   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Mobilization                    I    I-   I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Study & Draft Report            I  I  II--I--I--I--I--I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Comment by GOB and IDA          I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1111   1  1  1  1  I
Final Report                    |  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  l--l--l
Trainingtand Technical Asst.     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1
TraininR snd Technical Asst.  ~I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Machine Operators               1  1  1  1  I-I--I- I  I 'I''1-I   1  1  1  1  1
Railway Sleeper Studies         I  I  I--I--I  1  1  I  I  I  1  1  I  1  1  1  I
PCG Management Training         I  I  I  [--   I..mI  I  l  1 -I- I  1  1  I  1  1
II      I  1     1     1    1    1    1I   1    1    1    1I   
Source: GOB and mission estimates
September 1984



-46-
Annex 6
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Project Coordination Group (PCG)
1.        The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) formed a Timber
Transport Distribution Project Coordination Group (PCC) of the following
members (vide MOTC's letter No. 439-Pass/Xhwe (2)83 of January 24, 1984):
PCC      Office
Title    Telephone
1.  U Khin Maung Soe  Planning & Operation Department    Chairman        32332
Director General, Ministry of
Transport and Communications
2. U Kyaw [hin 1/    Deputy General Manager                Member        81951
Timber Corporation (TC)
3.  U Mya Than         Chief Traffic Manager               Member        76527
Burma Railway Corporation (BRC)
4.  U Saw Lwin         Deputy General Manager              Member        78613
(Transportation)
Inland Water Transport Corp. (iWTC)
5.  U Thein Aung       Staff Officer II
Road and Bridge Section
Construction Corporation (CC)       Member        73912
6.  U Myint Sein       Deputy Traffic Manager              Member        73153
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC)
7.  Dr. Thein Swe      Deputy Director                     Member        85011
Foreign Economic Relations
Department (FERD)
1/ User Agency



-47-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
PCG      Office
Title    Telephone
8.  U Shwe             Deputy Director                      Secretary    32727
Planning and Operation Department
Ministry of Transport and
Communications
9.                     Burma Five Star Shipping
Corporation (BFSSC) 1/
Project Coordinator - PCG
U Shwe                 Secretary of the Project                           32727
Coordination Group
Project Officer - PCG
U Thadoe Maw           Office in Charge                                   32727
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Address:
Chairman - PCG
Timber Transport Project Coordination Group
Transport and Communications
Planning and Operation Department
Sinmalaik Dockyard
University P.O.
Rangoon, Burma
1/ One member of PCG from the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC)
was not yet nominated as he was not essential at this stage (February
1984) of project preparation. At negotiations, name and title of the
member from BFSSC will be confirmed.



-48-                         Annex 7
BURMA
T.IMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Expected Annual Traffic Volumes to be Transported
in the Main Proposed Project Subcomponents
The following are the expected annual traffic volumes to be
transported, on a dedicated basis, by assets to be procured under the
proposed project:
(a) Naba-Katha: 35,000 Ht (rail);
(b) Prome-Rangoon: 20,000 Ht (rail);
(c) Pyinmana-Rangoon: 10,000 Ht (rail);
Cd) Sawn timber for CC to Rangoon: 12,000 St (rail); and
(e) Sagaing area - Rangoon: 6,000 Ht and 3,000 St (barges).
The following are the expected annual traffic volumes to bp
transported in roads to be partially financed by the proposed project:
(a) Naba-Katha: 5,000 Ht (road); and
(b) Wuntho-Htigyaing: 5,000 Ht (road).



-49-
Annex 8
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Details of the Economic Analysis of the Myitkyina Region Component
1.      The alternatives analyzed are as defined in paras 4.08 and 4.09.
Benefits have been estimated in terms of total transport and handling cost
savings, as well as value added of timber. Traffic was allocated based on
break-even analyses of different alternative flows. The first alternative
was compared with the do-nothing alternative, which it was assumed would
be able to handle only 41,000 Ht 1/ per year, as compared with a total
annual requirement of 72,000 St. Therefore, the net value added of the
difference in volumes is included as a benefit in the economic analysis of
the first alternative. It is a common forestry practice to regard unused
allowable cut as unrecoverable if a period of more than ten years has
elapsed beyond the established rotation age. The ACC is generally
calculated on the maximum yield over a given rotation, which is determined
by mean annual increment. Carrying a forest capital beyond its optimum
age has a diminishing return. In the case of the teak forests in Burma,
the delay in cutting in the no-project situation will reduce the overall
volume yield, although a value appreciation on individual larger trees
will take place provided they are still alive and growing. Therefore, the
total value of the foregone annual allowable cut may not be lost. The
actual loss is, however, very difficult to determine and will approach
total net value of the timber as the time delay increases. It might also
happen that the annual cutting would not be reduced with a subsequent
increase in backlog volume and further deterioration of logs to an extent
that they could be considered lost. If timber of similar cutting maturity
can be substituted from other areas of the country, the economic loss for
the economy would also be reduced. In practice, a large amount of
substitution appears to take place in Burma presently. The substitution
is, however, seldom from timber stands of sin lar nature and cutting
maturity, but often from considerably younger and smaller dimension timber
stands of better accessibility, which would bring another type of loss
which is difficult to evaluate. The preceding arguments point out that
although it is clear that the first alternative will bring an important
benefit in terms of the additional volume which will be taken out of the
region, the valuation of such a benefit poses some uncertainties.
However, under the reasonable assumption of establishing it as the net
value added, the ERR is so high, 76%, that it can be concluded, with a
good degree of confidence, that it is clearly feasible even with
substantial deviations from the estimated value of benefits. For example,
1/ The maximum volume reached in any one year over the past five years.



-50-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
if only 50% of the net value added is considered as benefit, ERR becomes
25%. Next, the second alternative was compared with the first one and
benefits were estimated based only on transport and handling cost savings,
because the assumed annual volume transported is the same for both
alternatives. Under these conditions, the Naba-Katha improvement has an
incremental ERR of 45%, and the Wuntho-Tigyaing road an incremental ERR of
15%, both over the first alternative which was found to be feasible in the
previous analysis. Therefore, the second aLternative is selected as the
best analyzed transport system in the Myitkyina region.



TIIOU DISTIIIUT10H PROJECT
Logo and Sawn Tibir Transnorted to Rangoon
1977-7 8                   19__9-                     17-_          -      -     1980-81             ...j19   - 2                      1982-83
-hFrpit/Divioigv             Rail    Raf.t  g1b*.   Jal          Raft    Otz        RAi_  1  Rf _t Other    Rail   JAIL.                  Ral        f L   -abet    Rail   JIfLL       Ot.br
PeAu Division (2)
Teak loge (MT)              20,216  81,268              22,928  100,751            14,310  108,210            12,645  85,210              2,568  100,192              1,239  92,102
Hardwood (HT)                         1,705                154    2,918             2,292   13, 297               192   7,781                       8,138                     3,600
Savn wood (STI)                                            139               106       211               226   1,174               835    1,986             1,926    1,174                 213
EPP Forestry Proleet
Teak logo (HT)                                                                     38, 965   46,641   1,000  33,993  62,007   1, 500   34,844   67, 585  2,000   27,913  71,413    7,000
HNrdvood (HT)                                                                          563                                                4,958                         329
Sewn wood (ST)                                                                     11,381                     11,713                      9, 704                        186
ADD I Foreetrv _UgigJ
Teak logo (HT)                       54, 960                     174,920                     75, 810                   72, 880                     77,370                    75,780
Hardwood (HT)               12,780   2,210              15,600    9,260            11,310    4,170             7,700   5,320               9,200    2,180             4,560      220                1
Sewn vood (ST)               4,120                       3,400                      6,040                      4,650                      3,420                       3,680 sL
ADS 11 Forestry Proiect
Teak logo (HT)                                                                                                                                                               10, 700
HNrdwood (HT)                                                                                                                                                         1, 850
Sawn wood (ST)                                                                                                                                                        1,470
Extraction (Kain)
Teak logo (IIT)             26,944  90, 751             36, 551  102,606           51,427   96,413             4,254  31,145              9,950   20,346              9,349  25,240
Nerdwood (NT)                         9,036              2,925    9,273       47       863   18,450      954            2,469                           54                       100
Sawn wood (ST)
Timbgr Corp. Total
Teak loge (HT)              47,160 226,979       0      59,479  378, 277       0  104,702  327,074   1,000  50, 892 251, 242   1,500   47,362  265,493   2,000  38, 501 275,235    7,000
Hardvood (HT)                12,760  12, 951     0      18,679   21,451       47   15,028   39,917       954   7,892  15, 570        0   14,158   10,372         0   6,739   3,920           0
Savn wood (ST)               4,120         0     0       3,539         0    106   17,632          0      226  17, 537       0      835   15,110          0   1,926   6,510         0       213
Source: Timber Corporation
February 1984
m



NU RKL
TIMBER DISTRIUJTION PROJECT
Timber Distribution Perfortmince
Tink
EXTRACTION                                  SANHILLING                  EXPORT          LOCAL SALE   TOTAL CONSUMPTION
Cubic Ton
Cubic Ton HODDUs                  Thruput   Outturn              Cubic Ton              Cubic Ton   Cubic Ton   Z of          Z of
Year    In Transit    Input    AlyLYi         Lose   Z Lose   HOpPuY    Solid    x ConV    RODIDU         Sawn Ton   HOPDuC        HODDUe      IaDut    Arrivlsn
63.66       50.00
1974-75      840,000   350,571    257,806   92,765  26.46    188,278    83,870   34.99    33,409            63,902      2,993        224,680   64.09       87.15
1975-76                 312,117   236, 833   75, 284  24.12    183, 149    83, 288   35.72    32, 157       67, 502     7,341        222,647   71.33       94.01
1976-77                 333,832   280,177   53,655  16.07    196,879    91,501   36.50    25,775            50,296      6,125        228,779   68.53       81.66      v"
1977-78                 357,987   316,209   41,778  11.67    215,521    95,193   34.69    44,256            38,653      9,767        269,544   75.29       85.24
1978-79                 462,413   375,584   86, 829  18.78    251,476   106,007   33.11    92,733           86, 981     3,774        347,983   75.25       92.65
1979-80                 478, 214   394,243   83,971  17.56    290, 538   121,325   32.80    48,236          54,812      3,588        342,362   71.59       86.84
1980-81                 485,081   401,332   83, 749  17.26    292,980   125, 850   33.74    54, 546         82,372      2,927        350.453   72.25       87.32
1981-82                 516, 886   435,423   81,463  15.76    297, 565   125,401   33.10    75,069          72,219      3,906        376,540   72.85       86.48
1982-83   1,160,000   500.000   423.689   76,311  15.26    312.643   129.794   32.61    81.366              61.091                   394.009   78.80       92.i9
Total                 3,477,101 3,121,296  675,805  19.44  2,229,029   962, 229   33.91   487, 547    583, 828    40,421           2,756,997   79.29       88.33
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Foreats, 1983-01-01
Notes on Forestry in Burma
'-
pa



ThUgER DISTUIITI0  PROJECT
Timber Distribution Performanee
lxardvood
EXTRACTI0O N    _                         SAWHILLING                  UPORT           LOCAL SALE   TOTAL C0ESUMnPTI0
Cubic Topk --
Cubic Ton Roonus                 Thruput    Outturn             Cubic Ton             Cubic Ton   Cubic Ton   2 of         X of
Year    In Transit   Innut    Arrival    Lose  I2 Loss  HODD             Solid   I goay   RoDpu       Sawn Ton   H       ODDUs HInmu.     Itinut    Arrival.
63.66        50.00
1974-75               534,789   501,896   32,893   6.15   426,586         237,117   43.66    11,206       1,916     29,778       467,570   87.43       93.16
1975-76               401,275   381,968   19,307   4.81   347,109         188, 847   42.73     3,142     6,128      37,101       387,352   96.53      101.41
1976-77               401,603   360,617   40,986  10.21   257,002         137,629   42.06      6,123      1,900     27,780       290,905   72.44       80.67
1977-78               374,167   368,060    6,107   1.63   327,540         173,204   41.53      9,630        171     43,716       380, 886  101,80     103.48
1978-79               469,224   480,099  -10, 875  -2.32   355,196        188, 850   41.76    45,950      1,027     30, 554      431,700   92.00       89.92
1979-80               7 23, 1 87   679,310   43, 877   6.07   403, 4 85   213, 136   41.49    56, 691      350      29, 280      489,456   67.68       72.05
1980-81               723,632   682,333   41, 299   5.71   483, 239       258,449   42.01    6i, 581         82     51, 509      596,329   82.41       87.40
1981-82               624,043   579,858   44,185   7.08   496,206         261,744   41.43    55,108                 44,522       595,836   95.48      102.76
1982-83               630,000   586.380   43.620   6.92   501.591         264.942  4jLA       43.430          6                  545,021   816.51      92.95
TOTAL               4, 881,920 4,620,521  261,399   5.35  3,597,954  1,923,118   42.00   292, 861    11, 580    294,240    4, 185, 055   85.73         90.58
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, 1983-01-01
Notes on Forestry in burma
0
hi



-54-
Table 3
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Sawmill Capacity
Teak Sawmills                  Hardwood Sawmills
State Mill      State Mill        Hired Mill         Total
State/Division   No's  Capacity  No's  Capacity  No's  CaDacity  No's  Capacity
Kachin                               2     5,000      4     6, 000     6    11,000
Kayah                                                 4     6, 500     4     6,500
Karen                                2     3, 500                      2     3, 500
SaRains
Sagaing                             13    41,500    17    41,700    30    83, 200
Monywa              1     8, 500    12    56, 700     1     2, 500    13    59, 200
Tenessarin                          3      8,600                       3     8,600
Pe_Yu
Tauugoo             2    17,000    11    77,500       8    29,500    19   107,000
Prome               1     8, 500    10    59, 000                     10    59, 000
Magwe (West)        1     9,000      5    18, 500     1     5,000      6    23,500
Magwe (East)                        4    12,000       5    11,000      9    23, 000
Mandalay
Mandalay            4     4,100    13    88, 000      3     8, 500    16    96, 500
Pyinmana                            10    66,000    14    48,000    24   114,000
Mon                 1    12,000      5    20,000      2     3,000      7    23,000
Rakhine                             4    17,000       4     5, 500     8    22,500
Rangoon            12   327,000     3    13,000                        3    13,000
Shan                1     1, 000    4    10, 500    10    10, 000    14    20, 500
Irrawaddy               _           6    31.100       8    15. 000    14    46.100
Total              23   424,000   107   527,900    81   192,200   188   720, 100
Source: Tizmber Corporation
February 1984



BU RMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Transportation of Logs by Rail (in HT)
Asency          Proiect   Svecies   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981182   1982/83   1983/84
West Katha      ADB I       Teak                             3,050       2,080     2,430      1,940      1,610
H/W                                                    1,400      1,380        120
Padauk                             660                                         120
Kawlin          ADB I       Teak          280     6,030    10, 890      4,780    15,510    15,340    10,480
H/W                     300      1,000        300        140
Padauk       570      2,500      1,100        240         50
Shwebo          ADB I       Teak       4,210      2,580      2,170      3,340    10,600         970      2,210
H/W                     696      3,080        786      1,210      3,820
Padauk                  860      6,500      1,990      1,280        660
Hyitkyina       ADB II      Teak       9,830    10,300    12,380                  12,920         580       611
H/W
Padauk
Myitkyina Line Total        Teak      14,320    18,910    28,490    10,200    41,460    18,830             611
H/W            0        996      4,080      1,086      2,750      5,200        120
Padauk       570      3.360      8.260      2.230      1.330        660        120
All       14.320    19.906    32.570    11.286    44.210    24.030             611
Mavmvo                      Teak                             1.070                    860
Monyva                      H/H                                                                          3,070
Padauk                                                                      3.520
North of Mandalay           Teak      14,320    18,910    29,560    10,200    42,320    18,830             611
Total Rail Transport        H/H             0        996     4,080      1,086      2,750      5,200      3,070
Padauk       570     3.360       8.260      2.230      1.330        660     3.640                             W
All       14, 890    23,266    41,900    13, 516    46,400    24,690         7,321
Source: Timber Corporation
February 1984



-56-                                                 Table 5
M RNA
TIMIR DlSTISIIlTION PROJECT
Loam Inventory at Railwvay Station.
Sp Ia&lav/Nvitkvina Rail Line
(As at October 1, 1983)
Distance                 Distance                                          Hard-
to Rangoon  Destination  to Rangoon  Transport  Distance   Teak   Padauk woods   Total
station     (Kiley)        Depot   (AMilea)        Made      (miles)    ST       IT       IT      IT-
Kanbalu        490      Sagaing          392      Rail           98       150                      150
Thityabin      498      Sagaing          392      Rail          106       150                      150
Pintha         506      Sagaing          392      Rail          114     1,270                    1.610
Mandalay        380      Rail          126                         30
Rangoon           0      Rail          506                310
Zauchaung      521      Sagaing          392      Rail          129     6.040                    6.040
Chatthin       516      Sagaing          392      Rail          124     7.180                    8,050
Kandalay        380      Rail          136                        570
Rangoon           0      Rail          516                300
Kodaungbo      527       Kandalay        380      Rail          147                        470   2.830
Rangoon           0      Rail          527              2.360
Kawlin         535      Mandalay         380      Rail          155                      1.160   1.160
Vuntho         543      Sagaing          392       Rail         151      14,390                 16. 960
Kandalay        380      Rail          163                      1.630
Tigyaing                 Truck Alt.    50
Rangoon           0      Rail          543                940
Cyodaung       552      Sagaing          392      Rail          160      1,030                   1,030
Katha           380       Rail Alt.    172
Nankhan        559      Sa-aing          392       Rail         167     12.490                  13, 560
Mandalay        380       Rail          179                       540
Katba           605       Rail Alt.     46
Rangoon           0      Rail          559                530
Indaw          585      Mandalay         380      Rail          205                      1,150   1.150
Nabs           590                       590                      0
Katba          605                       605                      0
Pinve          597      Mandalay         380      Rail          217                         70      70
(awlu          606      Mandalay         380      Rail          226                        320     320
lansiaung      612      Sagaing          392      Rail          220      4,643                   5,133
landalay        380       Rail         232                        490
Katha                     Rail Alt.     37
Kadu           628      Sagaing          392      Rail          236      4, 800                  4, 800
Katba                     Rail Alt.      53
Kamas          641      Sagang           392      Rail          249      4,381                   4,381
Katha                     Rail Alt.     66
Hopin          651      Sagaing          392      Rail          259        628                     628
Katha                     Rail Alt.     76
Pinbaw         661      Sagaing          392      Rail          269        664                     664
Katha                     Rail Alt.     86
TOtAL                                                                    57, 816  4,440   6,430  68,696
Alternative: Katha   Rail (truck/river)                                 28,636
Tigyaiag - truck/river                                    14,390
Sagaing - Rail Direct                                     14,790



BU RKA
TIMBER DISTRIUITION PROJECT
Lok Inventory at Railway Stations
(As at October 1, 1983)
Distance
to Rangoon  Destination  Transport  Distance    Teak   Padauk  Hardwoods  Total
Rail Line/Station       (Kileq)        Depot        Mode       (Miles)      BT       HT       HT         HT
Kandalav/Monvva
Monyva                     457         Rangoon       Rail                           3, 800              3, 800
Mandalay/Kayoyo
Htonbo                     392         Rangoon       Rail                             268                  268
Mandalay
Dewun                      385         Rangoon       Rail                             180                 180
Mandalav/Shwenvauna
Yepu                       341         Rangoon       Rail                    634                          634
Yirarpin                   329         Rangoon       Rail                  1,006                        1, 006
Pvimana (North)
Ywadaw                     230         Rangoon       Rail                  1,027                        1,027
Pyimana                    225         Rangoon       Rail                  2,902                        2, 902
Pyudwin                    229         Rangoon       Rail                    946      217               1,163
Aungchantha                            Rangoon       Rail                  7,930                        7,930
Maysagon                               Rangoon       Rail                 11,000                       11,000
Kuolaybin                              Rangoon       Rail                  3,787                        3, 787
Taungnyo                               Rangoon       Rail                  3,683                        3,683
Pantin                                 Rangoon       Rail                  3,794                        3,794
Levin                      23 5        Rangoon       Rail                  1,476                        1,476                           0 m
Takkon                     253         Rangoon       Rail                             155_155_
TOTAL                                                                     38,185   4,620       0       42,805
Source: Timber Corporation
February 1984



-58-
Table 6
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Inventory of Timber Wagons
Carrying               Condition                       Average
Capacity  Nos. in           Z             Nos.           Age
Wagon Type            (tons)    Stock   Good  Fair  Poor  Running   Z    Years
Log Transport
Bogie Wagons (WBYV)    30         395       -    80    20    352        89  70% over 25
Bogie Wagons (WBY)      30        173       -    10    90      94       54  90% over 40
Bogie Wagons (WBHV)    36         103       -   100      -     58       56  About 13
Bogie Wagons,
Others 1/               30         44       -     -   100      34       77  Over 40
Total                   -         715       -    60    40    538 6/   75
Sawn Wood
4-wheel timber                                                              55% over 40,
wagons, 5 types        18        214       -    45    55    152 6/   71  rest about 25
Bogie high-sided, open
wagons (Sugarcane w.)
Type SMBV              27        264      100    -      -    235 5/   89  6 to 18
Others 2/               27        269       33   57    10    171 5/   64  67% over 37
Total                   -         747       47   33    20    558        75
1/ Six different types, capacities 22-33 long tons.
2/ Five different types, all sugarcane type.
3/ Excluding wagons set aside for scrapping.
41 Includes stock used in unit trains.
5/ Available only outside sugarcane season, i.e., 5-6 months of the year.
In this period. 50% used for other purposes.
6/ Timber wagons (Bogie, 4-wheelers) also used for
other purposes (about 33% of the numbers of wagons are not available
for timber), and up to 50% of the remainder are awaiting running
repairs.
Source: BRC
February 1984



-59-
Table 7
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Inventory of Logs at Storage Depots - Rangoon
(As at October 1, 1983)
Distance                Lor CaDacity
from E.Q.   Length   on Land   Afloat
Depot        Township    Group    (Miles)       Feet      HT         ET
Kyar Chaung     Hlegu         East        12        6,600    41,400      8,600
Obo             Thaketa       East         7        7,640    38,000    12,000
Ahlone          Ahlone        East       H.Q.       3,000      2,400     2,400
Daing Su        Insein        West         5        4,300      3,800     8,200
Shan Chaung     Insein        West         6       10,400      9,200    29,000
Insein          Insein        West         6        9,560    11,600    15,200
Kasin           Insein        West         7        4,000      2,000     9,000
Wataya          Htantabin    West         20         5,960    12,000    13,000
Htantabin       Htantabin   West          23.5      3,000      5,000     6,000
Nyaung Waing    Hmawbi        West        22       12,200    65.700    24.000
TOTAL                                                        191,100   127,400
Source: Timber Corporation
February 1984



-60-
Tabl e 8
3U RKA
TINDI DISTRINI TION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
----   Kyats x 1,000    -       - -USS Killion
Local    Foreign      Total     Local Foreign Total
A. KYITRIYA LINE
(i  Noba-Kotb
Repower 3 Locos      4,842.00  10,560.00  15,402.00   0.54    1.19    1.73
30 New Wagons        5, 535.00  12,300.00  17, 835.00   0.62    1.38    2.00
2 New Brake Vans       237.60     528.00     765.60   0.03    0.06    0.09
Repair Shop            658.35   1,463.00   2,121.35   0.07    0.16    0.24
Wagon Spares         1,900.00   4,188.00   6,088.00   0.21    0.47    0.68
Rail Ezt. & Yard     1,210.00     881.00   2,091.00   0.14    0.10    0.23
lmprove Depot/Light    799.20     n6.0O   1,635.20   0.09    0.09    0.18
1 Hydr. Grap. Ldr.   1,201.50   2,70.00   3,871.50   0.13    0.30    0.44
2 F.E. Loadprs       1,188.00   2,640.00   3, 828.00   0.13    0.30    0.43
Loader Spares          396.00     880.00   1,276.00   0.04    0.10    0.14
Road Improvement     5,197.80   1, 584.00   6,7 81. 80   0.58   0.18    0.76
Road Roller            128.70     286.00     414.70   0.01    0.03    0.05
PCG Equipment          445.00      89.00     534.00   0.05    0.01    0.06
Subtotal            23,739.15  38,816.00  62,555.15   2.67    4.36    6.98
-ii)  Wuntho Road
Improve Existing     5,704.30     334.00   6,038.30   0.64    0.04    0.68
Construct Bew       10,797.00   2.200.00  12,997.00   1.21    0.25    1.46
load Roller            259.70     286.00     545.70   0.03    0.03    0.06
Road Grader            383.40     852.00   1,235.40   0.04    0.10    0.14
Spares                 103.05     229.00     332.05   0.01    0.03    0.04
Subtotal            17,247.45   3, 901.00  21,148.45   1.94    0.44    2.38
(iii ) Sagaing Depot
Resurfacing            289.95     111.00     400.95   0.03    0.01    0.05
Nydr. Grap. Loader   1,201.50   2,670.00   3, 871.50   0.13    0.30    0.44
2 F.1. Loaders       1,188.00   2,640.00   3, 828.00   0.13    0.30    0.43
Spares                 396.00      880.00   1,276.00   0.04    0.10    0.14
Lighting               222.75     495.00     717.75   0.03    0.06    0.08
Workshop Equipment     400.50      890.00   1.290.50  0.05    0.10    0.15
Subtotal             3,698.,C   7,686.00  11,384.70   0.42    0.86    1.28
TOTAL BASE               44,685.30  50,403.00  95,088.30   5.02    5.66   10.68
Physical Contingency      3.574.82   5,040.30   8,615.12   0.40    0.57    0.97
Price Contingency         7.46L.34   8.970.95  16.432.28   0.84    1.01    1.85
TOTAL COMWIUT            55,721.46  64,414.25 120,135.71   6.26    7.24   13.50



-61-
Table 8
Page 2 of 4
Kyats x 13000              US$ Million -
Local    Foreiin    Total   Local Foreign Total
S. PROMS LINE
Repover I Loco         1,584.00   3,520.00   5,104.00   0.18   0.40   0.57
10 New Wagons          1, 845.00  4,100.00  5, 945.00   0.21    0.46   0.67
1 New Brake Van          118.80    264.00    382.80   0.01   0.03    0.04
Repair Facilities        456.50     570.00   1,026.50  0.05   0.06   0.12
Spares & Radio Equip.  2,003.20   1,565.00  3,568.20   0.23    0.18   0.40
Rehab. 30 Wagon.       1.321.50   2.670.00  3991.50   0,15   0.30   0L4I
TOTAL BASE             7,329.00  12,689.00  20,018.00   0.82   1.43    2.25
Physical Contingency     586.32   1,268.90  1, 855.22   0.07    0.14    0.21
Price Contingency      1.223.76   2.258.44  3.482.21   0.14    0.25    0.39
TOTAL COHPfNUT         9,139.08  16,216.34  25,355.43   0.03    1.82   2.85
C. PYINNANA LINE
Repover 2 Locos        3,168.00   7,040.00  10,208.00   0.36    0.79    1.15
2 New Brake Vans         237.60     528.00    765.60   0.03    0.06    0.09
Rehab. 30 Wagons       1,321.50   2,670.00   3,991.50   0.15    0.30    0.45
Spares & Rado Equip.   2.003.20   1.565.00   3. 568.20   0.23    0.18    0.40
TOTAL BASE             6,730.30  11, 803.00  18, 533.30   0.76    1.33  -2.08
Physical Contingency     538.42   1, 180.30   1, 718.72   0.06    0.13    0.19
Price Contingency      1.123.79   2.100.75   3.224.54   0.13    0.24   &J6
TOTAL CONPONOT         8,392.52  15,084.05  23,476.57   0.94   1.69   2.64
D. CC TImBER TRANSPORT
Repover 1 Loco         1, 584.00  3,520.00   5,104.00   0.18   0.40    0.57
20 Nev Wagons          3,690.00   8,200.00  11, 890.00   0.41    0.92    1.34
Spares                 1.174.50   2.610.00   3.784.50   0.13    0.29    0.43
TOTAL BASE             6,448.50  14,330.00  20,778.50   0.72    1.61   2.33
Physical Contingeacy     515.88  1,433.00   1,948.88   0.06   0.16    0.22
Price Contingency      1.076.74   2. 550.52  3.627.26   0.12   0.29    0.41
TOTAL CNPWEffT         8,041.12  18,313.52 26,354.64   0.90   2.06   2.96



-62-
Table 8
Page 3 of 4
---- -Kyats x 1.000 --------          USS Million 
Local     Foreign      Total     Locel  Foreign  Total
E. CONTAINER IRU IPMENT
4 Forklift Trucks         792.00   1,760.00   2,552.00   0.09    0.20    0.29
12 Contr. Trailers        475.20   1,056.00   1,531.20   0.05    0.12    0.17
2 Truck Tractors          594.00   1,320.00   1,914.00   0.07    0.15    0.22
Packing Items             237.60      528.00     765.60   0.03    0.06    0.09
Spares                    792.00   1.760.00   2.552.00   0.09    0.20    0,29
TOTAL BASE              2,890.80   6,424.00   9,314.80   0.32    0.72    1.05
Physical Contingency      231.26     642.40      873.66   0.03    0.07    0.10
Price Contingency         482.69   1.143.37   1.626.06   0.05    0.13    0.18
TOTAL COMPCNENT         3,604.76   8,209.77  11,814.53   0.41    0.92    1.33
F.  BARGING SYSTEM
1 Pusber Tug            2,771.50   3,850.00   6,621.50   0.31    0.43    0.74
J Log Barges            6,096.85   3,765.00   9,861.85   0.69    0.42    1.11
1 Log Crane             1,38b.00   3,080.00   4,466.00   0.16    0.35    0.50
Loading Site Sagaing      626.00      220.00      846.00   0.07    0.02    0.10
Spares                    889.20   1.976.00   2.865.20   0.10    0.22    0.32
TOTAL BASE             11,769.55  12, 891.00  24,660.55   1.32    1.45    2.77
Physical Coningency    941.56   1,289.10   2,230.66   0.11    0.14    0.25
Price Contingency   l1965.22   2.294.40   4,259.62    0.22    0.26    0.48
TOTAL COMPONENT        14,676.34  16,474.50  31,150.83   1.65    1.85    3.50
H. RANGOON HARBOR B)UIPMENT
1 Tug Boat 2001P        1,125.25   1,945.00   3,070.25   0.13    0.22    0.34
4 Barges 100 Ton        2,139.60   1,288.00   3,247.60   0.24    0.14    0.39
Improve Okkyin Yd         405.70      106.00     511.70   0.05    0.01    0.06
Spares                    689.40   1.532.00   2.221.40   0.08    0.17    0.25
TOTAL BASE              4,359.95   4,871.00   9,230.95   0.49    0.55    1.04
Physical Contingency      348.80      487.10     835.90   0.04    0.05    0.09
Price Contingency         728.00      866.96   1.594.97   0.08    0.10    0.18
TOTrAL COMPONENT        5,436.75   6,225.06  11,661.81   0.61    0.70    1.31
I.  TRAINING & T.A.
Training                  890.00      890.00   1,780.00   0.10    0.10    0.20
Technical Assistance      8".(00      890.00 89 0 1.780.00    0.10          0.20
TOTAL COMPONENT         1,780.00   1,780.00   3,560.00   0.20    0.20    0.40
J.  COMPREHENSrVE STUDY       890.00   4,450.30   5,340.00   0.10    0.50    0.60



Summarv
--- Kyats Million              USS Million 
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  x of Total
Myitkyina Line             44.69    50.40  .95.09    5.02    5.66    10.68         52.99
Prome Line                  7.33    12.69   20.02    0.82    1.43        2.25      63.55
Pyinmana Line               6.73    11.80   18.53    0.75    1.33        2.08      63.94
CC Timber Transport         6.45    14.33   20.78    0.72    1.61        2.33      69.10
Container Equipment          2.89     6.42    9.31    0.33    0.72       1.05      68.57
Barging System              11.77    12.89   24.66    1.32    1.45       2.77      52.35
Rangoon Harbor Equip.       4.36      4.87    9.23    0.49    0.55       1.04      52.88
Training & T.A.              1.78     1.78    3.56    0.20    0.20       0.40      50.00
Total Base Cost(June'84)  85.99   115.19  201.18    9.65   12.95    22.60          57.30
Physical Contingency       6.88    11.52   18.40    0.78    1.29        2.07      62.32
Price Contingency         13.03    20.15   33.18    1.47    2.26        3.73      60.59
Total Project Cost        105.90   146.86  252.76   11.90   16.50    28.40         58.10
Comprehensive Study         0.89      4.45    5.34    0.10    0.50       0.60      83.33
Total Project Coat        106.79   151.31  258.10   12.00   17.00    29.00         58.62
0D
0^



-64-
Table 9
BURMA
TIMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                    at End of Quarter.           Percentage
1985/86  December 31, 1985                     0.20                     1
March 31, 1986                        0.30                     2
June 30, 1986                        0.50                      3
1986/87  September 30, 1986                    0.70                     4
December 31, 1986                     1.00                    6
March 31, 1987                        1.30                     7
June 30, 1987                         1.70                    10
1987/88  September 30, 1987                    3.30                    19
December 31, 1987                    5.00                    28
March 31, 1988                        7.40                   42
June 30, 1988                        10.70                   60
1988/89  September 30, 1988                   13.20                    74
December 31, 1988                   15.70                    88
March 31, 1989                       16.40                   92
June 30, 1989                       17.15                    97
1989/90  September 3, 1989                    17.75                   100
Closing Date: March 31, 1990
Source: GOB and Mission Estimates
April 1985



-65-
BURMA
nMBER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Organization Chart
Tlilt>l Cla>Xtbn
Mront ConT
cotv~~~~ of                     Dloiect
Dnectu~~~~~~~~ orene
.                h Plo~~~~Acnnht.fi  l   _ ooa wX*Abbm I           MtioWalMWAling              .v-w                       Account
DepDcrt                     Detm        |             lCt  n                  Depatr-                   Depftr                    D      epfn
Gener Managw              Genel M                         P D                 Gernol Manager               GFIAD GAM                   OG.M
1<~~~~~~~~~~~Amhrtc 1                    1--- 1                                E1a3   1da3                                              lon
I~ ~~ --
L      PreDWr 
PD               ~MangrlwP                                             D0GAM                   Manager-6                 Moruger-6
Ea. pew                                           EcAlIrnet                 Teak SoRnf                    __
Yarna                    Rarwilng               lrfixrowenent               PlyeAad Mill                WOocrton
Pmo ctLksI         _alecr                                                       & FO_
P.D                      Ua                        P D                       DGM                      Mnager              M|       t
Sagarrgn                 itesear,   I &r    ,PIa     a                                                   Static    1              klhIg &
PeCt Unit                  Trorgrduristj|tho                                                            WabhaNk                   Marlod-ietg
PD.                     MDa ae                                         j      GM       |           DeguxMnoger |M|aher
__                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ha"deaod  SIateu
(ADS) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  ~~~~hfrrug a                                          Dlrrre
(ADO)P IJ                                                                      sales                     Sltat
PD0                                                                            D.GM       |           Dv Manager-38 ||DV- MaJr-7|
slow
DMeons
|    Manar                                                                                                                     Ward Banlr-2500



BURMA
$ .D=IBTA RE\CC-; ...                                                .       ..........2KS- )>THit
I *s>s -     JT  a,OEM         " N-                             D ;KACHIN
-  REP.. II -    ,.  'ID"n^zaze   -   |  -  .   t^. ;-.'   Ii-  t   \CHINA
IN SFAT ~   ~      I''      SlT
.    4.'     ^t,t-    --  -s.r .                        7 -         .s
X~~~ ...ffAf~                                         --;. ' 
'fr J                           .;-
At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l
TM            *           CHINPiOR  .T               -
?4:: p K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HALN
D  X^4,L   *,  -z_  { |  _ L                             _       W  =. rT !                 PEt *ES
I'A  ON G AVISIRPMN
* TIMBERTRANSPORT 
DISTR  FIBUION    PROJCT1i
C'.'Icc.TUGagUCTAiOM VllO
AN    UAEDO-NAWROA                          I"
*  A ---- - WCUTNACZRAIIW*YU .ENASIERIM
*II  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
*   I',.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
AAn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Vo        no       te



