Report No. PID9728
Project Name                     Ghana-Ghana AIDS Response Fund (GARFUND)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       GHPE71617
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address GHANA AIDS COMMISSION
Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare
P.O. Box CT 5169
Contact Person: Mr. Alhaji Muhammad Mumuni,
Minister of Employment and
Social Welfare
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 18, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 19, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
National awareness of the spread of HIV/AIDS dates back to the
mid-eighties when the GOG established the National Technical Committee on
AIDS. Soon after, the National AIDS/STD Control Program (NACP) was
established within the MOH to coordinate the national response to the
epidemic. However, its impact has been limited. Part of the reason is
that prevention works primarily through behavior change, and the NACP/MOH
has focused more on medical/clinical aspects. Although the MOH has
developed some IEC programs and has worked on a limited basis with NGOs,
it has been unable to mobilize civil society. An October 1999 mission of
the International Partnership against HIV/AIDS in Africa noted the need
for a multi-sectoral approach to increase the effectiveness of the GOG's
response. The GOG established a multi-sectoral national commission to
coordinate all HIV/AIDS activities in the country. It also assessed the
adequacy of its response to the epidemic to date and based on the results
developed a National Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana. It is estimated
that at least 4.6 (1998 figures) of the adult population of Ghana is
infected with HIV. At least 600,000 Ghanaians are estimated to be living
with HIV. Prevalence almost doubled between 1994 and 1998. At current
rates of infection, it is estimated that 1.2 million Ghanaians will be
infected by the year 2005. Prevalence rates are highest among commercial
sex workers, with rates as high as 82 percent in Kumasi in the Ashanti
region. The actual number of AIDS cases is difficult to estimate given
the strong stigma associated with the disease and the culture of silence
it imposes.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the proposed project (Ghana AIDS Response Fund, Garfund)
are to reduce the spread of HIV infection, and reduce the impact of AIDS
on those infected and their families by enabling the Government of Ghana
(GOG) to implement a balanced, diversified multi-sectoral response,



engaging all relevant government sectors, non-governmental organizations
and grassroots initiatives. The only sector not being financed is the MOH
which is already receiving donor/IDA support through the Health Sector
Program Support Project (HSPSP, Cr. 2994-GH). The project would support
the implementation of the GOG's "Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in
Ghana.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Availability of sufficient funding for HIV/AIDS: Many donors are
supporting Ghana's efforts to step up efforts to combat HIV/AIDS.
However, no other donor is able to mobilize the amount of resources
necessary for a fund which could finance the efforts of non-governmental
and community-based groups as well as public agencies.Cross-country
experience: The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and STD control
projects and has ample experience in the design, implementation and
evaluation of these programs in all continents the Bank works in.
Moreover, the Bank has ample experience in the management of investment
and community development funds all over the world in which implementing
entities are largely organizations of civil society and local district
governments.Analytical capacity: The Bank has authored numerous studies
analyzing HIV/AIDS and its impact, drawing upon knowledge in epidemiology,
public health, and economics in order to make recommendations on defining
priorities, strategies to confront it, and the measurement of its impact.
The Bank can provide added value in its technical assistance on monitoring
and evaluation.
4. Description
The project would finance a US$25.0 million, 4-year component of the
non-health components of the Government's Strategic Framework for
HIV/AIDS. Garfunds's objective is to intensify multi-sector activities
designed to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS and to reduce its impact on
those already affected. To achieve its objective, the project includes
support for the following activities:Prevention and Care Services (US$21.0
million) by financing governmental (excluding health) and non-governmental
entities to provide a broad spectrum of preventive and care activities at
national, regional and local levels. Approximately seventy-five percent
of funding will be earmarked for non-governmental and community-based
initiatives. The size of any single activity financed under the fund is
not expected to be large (generally less than US$100,000). Prevention
activities are designed to reduce high risk behavior and exposure to risk,
and to reduce the vulnerability of those who are unaware of their risk by
raising their awareness, and "de-stigmatizing" the disease so as to
increase access to prevention and care. For families affected by HIV/AIDS,
Garfund would reduce their vulnerability by financing services to protect
their rights, income generation activities, care for orphans and
home-based care for the ill.Strengthening Public/Private institutions for
HIV/AIDS Control and Care Giving (US$2.4 million) by supporting training
and technical assistance for institutions on technical and practical
aspects of working with HIV/AIDS, and when required, some training on
community participation and project management. Only entities
implementing subprojects are eligible for training. The training will be
subcontracted to NGOs and line ministries with expertise on the issue in
question. Financing of this component will strengthen the impact of
activities financed under Component l.Knowledge Management (US$1.4
million) by providing support for the establishment of a
- 2 -



mechanism/strategy to collect, organize and disseminate up to date
information on AIDS prevention and care, best practices of existing
projects, research results, and any reports that would be useful to
implementing entities. It would also finance activities to bring together
subproject representatives to share experiences with subprojects with
similar orientations. Financing of this component will strengthen the
impact of activities financed under Component l.Project Management and
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.0 million). The project would finance the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system which will assess the
progress attained in the fight against AIDS nationwide on the basis of the
targets defined in the Strategic Framework and will monitor the advance of
Garfund financed activities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               27.8
GOVERNMENT                       1.8
IDA                              25.0
Community/NGOs                   1.0
6. Implementation
The credit is would be disbursed over a four year period. IDA would
retroactively finance expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior to
credit signing, including those relating to the setting up of the GAC
Secretariat and its premises (rent, office equipment, supplies, salaries),
and any other necessary preparatory activities including the setting up of
Garfund's financial management system, up to an amount of US$1.5 million
(or 6% of the value of the credit). The proposed project would be placed
under the authority of the Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) which would be in
charge of the definition of broad priorities for action, the selection of
eligible proposals, and the monitoring of the performance of those
receiving funding. The Secretariat of the GAC would implement the GACs
decisions. The GAC includes high level representatives of all line
Ministries that can play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS, religious,
occupational, NGO affiliations, women's and student organizations and
other interest groups. It is located in the Presidency under the
chairmanship of the President. The vice-chairmanship of the GAC will
rotate every year. The current vice-chair is the Minister of Employment
and Social Welfare.Garfund will employ a fund mechanism to finance
subprojects executed by a wide range of organizations at the national,
regional and local levels. The GAC will select a technical subcommittee
to review and select subproject proposals on a semiannual basis and to
submit their recommendations to the GAC for their final endorsement. The
Secretariat would be responsible for the financial and administrative
aspects of Garfund, as specified in a detailed operational manual. It
would contract the necessary technical support to guide executing entities
in preparing proposals and implementing subprojects. It would prepare and
administer contracts to selected executing entities and monitor their
technical and financial performance. The Secretariat would provide
financial and technical reports on a quarterly basis to the GAC, and
prepare annual reports for financing agencies.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability is more likely to result from: selecting low-cost,
preventive interventions and thus reducing the number of people who
- 3-



contract HIV/AIDS which would require more expensive treatment; and
strengthening capacity to deliver cost-effective interventions, especially
at the local level, and with major involvement of NGOs and community
organizations. The project will prevent substantial expenditures on
treatment of AIDS cases in the public sector, by virtue of the number of
HIV infections that are averted. Managerial sustainability would be
enhanced by strengthening the capacity of the Ghana Aids Commission to
oversee the program, and strengthening implementation capacity in the
public, private and NGO sectors at federal, state, and especially at local
level.   The project would include capacity building.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects key lessons learned from international
experience with HIV/AIDS. Key lessons learned are:n aggressive, preventive
interventions are required to slow the spread of HIV;n interventions
targeted to high risk behaviors and groups, within a broader campaign,are
the most cost-effective way to reduce transmission and the best way to
protect lower risk groups from infection;n information acquired through
personal contacts is the most effective in promoting behavior change;n
targeted interventions need to be complemented by broader advocacy,
awareness and information campaigns which inform and protect the general
population, build support for the program, and reduce the stigmatization
of those infected or members of marginalized groups;f and advocacy and
coordination across multiple sectors, including the NGO and private
sectors, is needed to stem the epidemic.The experience in Uganda, where an
advanced epidemic has been brought under control, and in Senegal, where a
generalized epidemic has been prevented, demonstrate that HIV can be
controlled through aggressive action combining strong government
commitment, energetic prevention programs targeted at high risk behaviors,
and sufficient resources from multiple sectors and sources.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed project does not raise any major
environmental issues. No construction activities are planned.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sandra Rosenhouse
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2747
Fax:   (202) 522-3135
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed during the week ending December 1, 2000.
- 5 -



