             Document of
          The World Bank




                                       Report No: 36119

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (IDA-34580)

                ON A

        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

               TO THE

               GHANA

                FOR A

    AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)




             June 29, 2006

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as June 29, 2006)

                         Currency Unit = Cedis
                               1 Cedis = US$ 0.00011
                                US$ 1 = 9193.36 Cedis
                            SDR 1 = US$ 1.49
                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1  December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBO        Community Based Organization
CCM        Country Coordination Mechanism
CDD                Community Development Driven
CSWs               Commercial Sex Workers
DAs                District Assemblies
DACF       District Assembly Common Fund
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DPRME              Directorate Policy, Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
DRIMT              District Response Initiative Management Team
DRI                District Response Initiative
FBO                Faith Based Organization
GAC                Ghana AIDS Commission
GARFUND    Ghana AIDS Response Fund
GOG        Government of Ghana
GDHS       Ghana Demographic Health Survey
GSMF       Ghana Social Marketing Foundation
HIV                Human Immuno Deficiency Virus
IAs        Implementing Agencies
IEC        Information Education Community
IDA        International Development Association
MDAs       Ministries, Departments and Public Agencies
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
MMWG       Multi-Sectoral Working Group
MLGRD      Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
NACP       National AIDS Control Program
NCTE       National Country for Tertiary Education
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NSF        National Strategic Framework
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PLWHA      People Living With HIV/AIDS

OVC          Orphans and Vulnerable Children
RACs         Regional AIDS Committee
STD          Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SWAP         Sector-Wide Approach
TA           Technical Assistance
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing

                         Vice President:   Gobind T.Nankani
                      Country Director     Mats Karlson
                        Sector Manager     William Experton
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Aissatou Diack

                                            GHANA
                            AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47

Project ID: P071617                                                  Project Name: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Team Leader: Aissatou Diack                                          TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-34580
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (85%); Central government administration (10%); Other social services (5%)
                  Theme: HIV/AIDS (P); Population and reproductive health (S); Participation and civic engagement
                            (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/29/2000                                     Effective: 05/08/2002                05/08/2002
     Appraisal: 10/19/2000                                         MTR: 03/26/2004                  03/26/2004
      Approval: 12/28/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/GHANA AIDS COMMISSION
                      Other Partners:      DFID, USAID

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Rosemary Bellow
Team Leader at ICR:             Aissatou Diack                                 Eileen Murray
ICR Primary Author:             Aissatou Diack; Kofi Amponsah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Project was to intensify multisectoral activities designed to combat the spread
of HIV infection and reduce its impact on those already affected by HIV/AIDS, by financing
interventions outside the Ministry of Health's (MOH) mandate. Specific objectives of the Project
were to: (i) provide resources that would enable the Government of Ghana (GOG) to implement a
balanced, diversified multi-sector response, engaging all relevant government sectors,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and grassroots initiatives; (ii) to expand contributions
made by the Ministry of Health (MOH) to engage the civil society in the fight against AIDS; and
(iii) to finance eligible activities conducted by civil society organizations including NGOs,
community-based organizations (CBOs), faith-based organizations (FBOs), trade and professional
associations, associations of People Living With HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs), districts, and line
ministries to ensure a rapid multi-sector scaling up of HIV prevention and care activities in all
regions of the country and at all administrative levels.

The objectives of the project were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistant Strategy (CAS),
which underpinned the need to continue to provide sector-wide support to the health sector in
Ghana and the urgent need to address the spread of HIV/AIDS through a multi-sector approach.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:

Component 1. Prevention and Care Services ($21.00)
This component was to finance governmental (excluding health) and civil society entities to
provide a broad spectrum of prevention and care activities at national, regional and local levels.
Seventy percent of project funds were allocated to these activities, out of which $15.0 million
were earmarked for non-governmental and community-based initiatives. The prevention activities
were designed to reduce high risk behaviors and exposure to risk, to reduce the vulnerability of
those who were unaware of their risk by raising their awareness, and to de-stigmatize the disease
so as to increase access to prevention and care. The project sought to reduce the vulnerability of
families affected by HIV/AIDS by financing services to protect their rights, income generation
activities, care for orphans and home-based care for the ill. The project provided access to funds
through three windows for financing of proposals that were categorized under three groups. The
first group (Window A) included proposals from the line ministries to finance activities for
internal and external clients. The second group (Window B) included financing for proposals for
civil society organizations including NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, trade and professional associations,
associations of PLWHAs, districts, and NGO affiliation networks (umbrella organizations). The
third group (Window C) provided seed money for activities conducted by small CBOs and
associations.




                                                 - 2 -

Component 2. Strengthening Public/Private institutions for HIV/AIDS Control (Capacity
Building) (US$2.40)

This component was intended to improve skills and strengthen structures to help achieve the
GARFUND's objective of scaling up the national HIV/AIDS response. The aim was to enhance
both the technical and managerial capacity of implementing entities to implement projects as well
as sustain the process of scaling up the HIV/AIDS response. The project provided support
through technical assistance (TA) to specific projects and training to groups of implementing
entities. In addition to some TA identified in the proposals of implementing entities, the project
was expected to identify additional needs through project supervision and the entity's experience
in the implementation of subproject activities. Training was subcontracted to NGOs, line
ministries, or pre-qualified training providers with expertise on HIV/AIDS. To monitor the
services provided, the beneficiaries would provide feedback on a regular basis and the Ghana
AIDS Commission (GAC) could undertake random site visits.

Component 3. Knowledge Management (US$1.40)

This component was to set up and maintain information clearing house database on HIV/AIDS
relevant to implementing entities to improve their effectiveness. The purpose was to provide
implementers with the latest information on HIV/AIDS prevention and care, best practice
examples from other countries, research results, and any other reports that would be useful to
them.    Additionally, the project provided a forum for information sharing and experience
exchange by implementing entities, as well as access to technical information on the project itself.
Information was to be disseminated in the various media, including newsletters, copies of
published papers, coordination meetings and via the internet. It was expected that umbrella
organizations could have a key role as vehicles of information. Once the regional AIDS
committees were all established, they would serve as a focal point for dissemination. Financing of
this component was expected to strengthen the impact of activities financed under component 1.

Component 4. Project management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.00)

The project was placed under the authority of GAC, which was to be in charge of the definition of
broad priorities for action, the selection of eligible proposals (through a technical subcommittee)
and the monitoring of project performance. The GAC includes high level representatives of all line
ministries which should play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS, religious, occupational, NGO
affiliations, women's associations, students' organizations and other interest groups. The
Secretariat of GAC was tasked to implement GAC decisions and was responsible for financial and
administrative aspects as well as overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project. In
addition, the Secretariat was to provide support to entities awarded contracts under the project
with basic training in financial management and procurement in order to ensure compliance with
Bank procedures. It was also responsible for preparing and administering contracts to selected
executing agencies, as well as monitoring their technical and financial performance. Finally, the
Secretariat was to provide financial and technical reports on quarterly basis to the GAC, prepare
annual reports for financing agencies, and ensure that annual audits were carried out in
accordance with agreements with International Development Association (IDA), to ascertain that



                                                 - 3 -

funds were used following procedures agreed upon with IDA in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) and the operations manual.




                                          - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory. The project development objectives
(PDO) were relevant to the sector related CAS overall goal of reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS
through a multi-sectoral approach, and the GOG's health sector priorities. The project design
incorporated lessons learned from similar operations in Africa as well as other parts of the world.
In particular, several design features of successful AIDS/STD programs in Africa and other
regions were reflected in the design. Moreover, risk factors such as, inadequate response from the
Ministry of Health (MOH), low capacity at the grassroots level, which could hamper strong
community response, and lack of implementation experience by the Secretariat were thoroughly
assessed and mitigation measures were proposed.             The project also built upon a strong
government ownership and supported the national program, which was expected to enhance
sustainability by building institutional capacity at national and local level. Finally, the project
design benefited from a series of consultations with key development partners, including DfID and
USAID.

However, major design flaws were noted in the project preparation. First of all, the use of HIV
prevalence as the golden indicator set in the PDO, against the written statement in the overall
MAP I project document and the QK advisor, was not appropriate as it could not have been
affected by a four-year project. Prevalence could even have increased as a result of successful
project implementation because of increased reporting of HIV cases resulting from greater
awareness raising and reduction in stigma and discrimination. The increased utilization of
antiretroviral therapy, though supported by the Global Fund and WHO, could decrease mortality
of PLWHA and thus increase HIV prevalence. Secondly, it was an error to exclude the Ministry
of Health (MOH) from project implementation and funding, based on the assumption that the
health SWAP would meet all the funding needs. This decision limited the GARFUND's capacity
to contribute to and be accountable for increased utilization of HIV-related health services such as
VCT, PMTCT, medical care and antiretroviral care, while unmet needs were clearly documented.
Finally, in the context of a concentrated epidemic, the project design should have focused more on
high risk groups, such as sex workers, prisoners and men having sex with men (MSM).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project was designed to achieve two main
objectives: (i) to intensify multisectoral activities designed to combat the spread of HIV infection,
and (ii) to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on those affected and their families.

(i)PDO 1: To intensify multisectoral activities designed to combat the spread of HIV
infection: The project likely contributed to noticeable changes in sexual behavior and
increased demand for HIV-related health services, by strengthening the national response
to HIV/AIDS. The Ghana Demographic Health Survey (GDHS) reported that the proportion of
people in union using condoms at their last intercourse, increased from 15 to 45% for men and
from 6 to 35% for women. The median age at first intercourse has also increased from 17 to 18.3


                                                   - 5 -

years for females and from 17 to 20.2 years for males indicating a noticeable improvement. The
national response to HIV/AIDS was greatly expanded through funding for approximately 3,026
subprojects in all communities across the country. GARFUND has been successful in expanding
the community response to HIV/AIDS by increasing the proportion of funds awarded to CBOs
which constitute about 72% of funded organizations. Furthermore, 71 ministries and departmental
agencies (MDAs) and all the 110 districts in Ghana implemented annual plans to address
HIV/AIDS from 2003 to 2005. Finally, GARFUND resulted in unprecedented government
ownership of the response to HIV/AIDS and was characterized by fast track implementation of
new and pilot interventions.




                                             - 6 -

The HIV prevalence among pregnant women remained well below 6% at the end of
project. Analysis of trend data from HIV/AIDS Sentinel Surveillance Surveys indicate that the
median HIV prevalence rate among pregnant women in Ghana was reduced from 3.4 % in 2002
to 2.7 % in 2005, though significant regional variations in HIV prevalence rates remain (1.2 % in
the Northern Region to 4.7 % in the Eastern Region). The Ghana Demographic Health Survey
(GDHS) published in 2003 showed a national HIV prevalence among 15 to 49 years old women
of 2.7%, which is well below the targeted 6%. However, the HIV prevalence among those
women is much higher than among 15 to 49 years old men (1.5%). It is lowest among the 15-19
years age group (0.5%) compared to older women (4.7% among 35-39 years). However, the ICR
team could not document the link between project interventions and a reduction in the spread of
HIV infections as national HIV incidence data are not available in Ghana. The HIV prevalence
among pregnant women 15 to 19 years old could be used as a proxy indicator to measure
incidence of new HIV infections and has greatly decreased from 2.3% in 2002 to 0.8% in 2005.
No rate is available for the proportion of men and women who have reduced their sexual partners
in response to perceived risk.

Data on female commercial sex workers showed mixed results as HIV prevalence decreased
among seaters, while it increased among roamers, in both Accra and Kumasi. HIV
prevalence among seaters decreased from 76% in 2001 to 52% in 2006 in Accra, and from 45%
in 2002 to 39% in Kumasi. On the other hand, there has been an increase in HIV prevalence
among roamers from 23% in 2002 to 37% in 2006 in Accra, and from 15% in 2002 to 24% in
2006 in Kumasi.

(ii) PDO 2: To reduce the impact of AIDS on those affected and their families: Through the
care and support interventions, the project has provided support to PLWHAs, Orphans and
Vulnerable Children (OVC). The project has provided substantial home-based and
community-based care services for more than 30,000 PLWHAs nationwide through 15% of
funded NGOs. The project has helped scaling up the Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC)
program, using the innovative Manya Krobo model whereby support was channeled through the
traditional leadership structures (chieftaincy). Approximately 17,500 orphans have benefited from
different kind of support ranging from payment of school fees, provision of nutritional
supplements, and medical assistance.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Prevention and care services (21.0=actual project cost)

This component is rated as satisfactory. It facilitated a nation-wide mobilization against the
epidemic through a broad range of partners. Through the project's intensive IEC campaigns,
there have been tremendous improvements in creating an almost universal awareness on
HIV/AIDS among men and women of reproductive age. It is estimated that 96% of women and
98% of men believe that there is a way to avoid the virus which causes AIDS. The project's
prevention interventions have also contributed to increasing the percentage of males and females
who know they can avoid HIV by using condoms from 40% to 86% for males and from 22% to
77% for females. According to GDHS (2003), 95% of males and 90% of females now know they
can avoid HIV by sticking to one unaffected partner, compared to 60% of males and females at


                                                 - 7 -

baseline. In the area of care and support, 35% of the 110 districts have organized care for AIDS
orphans and 50% have conducted community-based care for PLWHAs. The project also provided
support to several organizations for the benefit of 17,500 orphans and vulnerable children
(OVCs).




                                              - 8 -

The component was designed to operate through three windows: Window A for the public sector,
Window B for non public sector organizations, and Window C for small community-based
organizations (CBOs). A total number of 3,026 sub-projects were funded in various areas of
interventions through four calls for proposals. About 82% of those subprojects were fully
completed. Besides, through a parallel funding mechanism, DFID supported training and technical
assistance to beneficiaries with a grant of 20 million pound sterling. Major areas of GARFUND
under this component interventions include: (i)        HIV/AIDS in the workplace programs; (ii)
advocacy and counseling; (iii) condom promotion; (iv) information, education and communication
(IEC) and peer education; (v) behavior change promotion for commercial sex workers (CSWs);
(vi) voluntary, counseling and testing (VCT); and; (vii) care and support for PLWHAs and OVCs.
The project recorded that, through the first call for proposals, 91% of subprojects effectively
implemented and met their stated objectives. Analyses were not made for subsequent calls for
proposals. Compared to other organizations, the private sector received funding for only 21
subprojects, of which four were completed. The low funding of the private sector was due to its
late involvement in the GARFUND project, only from the fourth call for proposals.

The project allowed implementation of a wide range of community HIV/AIDS
interventions that covered the whole country. Recent data on project activities and statistics of
beneficiaries are illustrated in the table below:


                                        Activity              Number of people who have benefited
                                                                     from or utilized services
                            Medical care and psychosocial                                      482,526
                            support
                           Counseling                                                    638,495
                           Peer education                                              2,984,183
                           Condom distribution                                         7,334,295
                           IEC                                                         3,360,683
                           Advocacy        and   community                             4,251,922
                           mobilization
                           Capacity building and training                                587,379
                           Voluntary       Counseling    and                             210,000
                           Testing
                           Prevention of Mother to Child                                  60,000
                           Transmission
                           Anti Retroviral Treatment                                       3,800




                                                  - 9 -

The distribution of condoms has been very effective, with condoms generally sold at
affordable prices without supply disruptions. Throughout the life of the project, more than 7
million condoms were distributed by the implementing partners. With DFID and USAID support,
condom sales by Ghana Social Marketing Foundation (GSMF) have grown by 30% per annum.

Flexibility of funding allowed the implementation of community HIV/AIDS control
initiatives that can be considered as best practices. A remarkable accomplishment of the
project is the "Condom Purse" program of the Police Service, aimed at attaining 100% condom
use for casual sex among its work force. Police officers were portrayed to be equipped with a life
jacket against HIV, with a slogan "Condom Wallet, Your Life Jacket". Another example was the
targeted activities of the Prisons Service supported by the project. The program dubbed "AIDS is
real, clean the face of your HIV/AIDS infected friend" aimed to further improve awareness of the
reality of the disease and to support members of the prison community who have been infected.

A special focus was put on IEC, but its links with behavior change are unclear. The project
supported the production of several IEC materials and major radio, television, and music
productions that were used to raise awareness of the general population on HIV/AIDS prevention
and care issues. A special focus was put on awareness raising in rural areas, and 45% of
subprojects have developed IEC material meant for rural communities. To induce greater
emphasis on behavior change interventions, GAC produced national IEC/BCC strategy towards
the end of the project.

Despite these achievements, several shortcomings hampered smooth implementation of
component 1 activities: (i) insufficient targeting of high risk groups and priority areas with
higher HIV prevalence that received relatively low funding during the first rounds of proposals,
while disproportionately high amounts of funds were allocated to general population awareness
raising; (ii) inability of ministries to provide the required counterpart fund (10% but later reduced
to 5%) because they had no line items in the ministerial budgets for this purpose; (iii) low
commitment toward HIV/AIDS prevention and care in some ministries, which resulted in
inadequate staffing and lack of operational resources for their HIV/AIDS secretariats; (iv) slow
disbursement of funds to the benefiting organizations for the second and third installments, due to
lengthy processes for approval of their reports that tended to be incomplete; (v) insufficient
information on district referral systems between home-based and institution-based care; and ; (vi)
insufficient number of institutionalized NGOs umbrella organizations, which explains the low level
of funds disbursed for their support to smaller civil society organizations.

Component 2: Strengthening Public/Private Institutions to control HIV/AIDS (US$1.4m )

This component is rated as satisfactory. Extensive capacity building activities have been
completed for NGOs, CBOs, MDAs, DAs, FBOS and the private sector. GAC has produced a
technical manual on HIV/AIDS related issues, organized leadership training for beneficiary
organizations, and trained its field investigators on supervision, research and analysis. Focal
persons in 74 MDAs have been trained to prepare and implement HIV/AIDS plans and all line
ministries have provided adequate HIV/AIDS training for their trainers at the district level. More
than half of the MDAs have received support and training in preparing their strategic plans and



                                                  - 10 -

civil society institutions received training in budgeting and accounting. Proposal development
workshops were conducted in all regions to orient NGOs and CBOs on the types and format of
information required and the criteria to be met to access project funds. The private sector,
however, received little training because of its late involvement in the project. The DFID-SIPAA
project provided parallel financial support to organizations to assist in the preparation of
subprojects of GARFUND. The GHANET network benefited from DFID-SIPAA capacity
building activities, which enabled them to provide better oversight of their registered NGOs
involved in HIV/AIDS.




                                                - 11 -

The Education Sector implemented the most comprehensive HIV/AIDS in the workplace
program and numerous capacity building activities, because it benefited from DfID
co-financing. Through this component, the sector developed and implemented an HIV/AIDS
policy and programs targeting its employees; set up a full time secretariat, an HIV/AIDS task
force and a steering committee to oversee implementation. The curriculum Research and
Development Division (CRDD) has integrated HIV/AIDS information into the primary and
secondary school curricula, and regional and district Directors of Education have been trained in
HIV/AIDS competence. The project also provided training to about 28,000 teachers at primary,
junior secondary and senior secondary school levels, including private school teachers.
Furthermore, the universities have developed institutional HIV/AIDS policies, and the National
Council for Tertiary Education (NCTE) has implemented a program for distribution of condoms.
Finally, the ministry and its NGO partners have rolled out an unprecedented amount of prevention
activities in most schools, including tertiary level universities.

Care and support was a new and important focus of training for civil society organizations
to improve the quality of life of PLWHAs and OVCs. Several training sessions focused on
strengthening local capacity in the areas of care and support. A psycho-sociological course
intended to strengthen the capacity of master training counselors was organized. Training needs
assessment activities were carried out with greater involvement of PLWHAs and scaled up their
involvement in the implementation of the National Response. This was coupled with peer
counseling and education activities for PLHWAs as well as similar regional activities. Nine
regional PLWHAs networks were created and strengthened by capacity building programs
supported by GARFUND and other partners in the areas of program coordination and
management.

Component 3: Knowledge Management (0.5m)

This component is rated as satisfactory. Numerous research projects and studies were
completed and disseminated and all districts regularly received information on best practices of
HIV/AIDS interventions. In close collaboration with development partners, the GAC has
developed a policy framework and guidelines for OVC program, targeting children in difficult
situations. Other key studies completed and disseminated are: (i) a situational appraisal of the
HIV/AIDS activities in Ghana, (ii) a study on orphans and vulnerable children (iii) a study on
home-based care and research on associations of PLWHAs; (iv) a study on HIV, HCV, TB and
Syphilis among prisoners; (v) a review of HIV seroprevalence among health workers; and; (vi) a
study on knowledge, attitudes and perception of traditional healers on HIV/AIDS.

Component 4. Project Management (1.4m)

This component is rated as satisfactory.

(i)Policy and coordination

GAC has achieved substantial successes in the areas of institutional arrangements, policy and
coordination. A National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2001-2005 was developed and support



                                                 - 12 -

was provided to key government ministries and agencies to elaborate their 2002-2006 HIV/AIDS
Strategic plans. In 2004, GAC successfully organized a joint review of the national strategic
framework implementation which brought together all stakeholders, including its development
partners, and provided recommendations for improvement of the national HIV/AIDS response.
This process has significantly strengthened collaboration among the various partners. GAC has
also demonstrated strong commitment to improving communication and networking with its
partners. In this regard, GAC has received work plans of key partners and incorporated them into
composite annual workplans. In resource mobilization, GAC has had a series of discussions with
District Assemblies (DAs) to adhere to government directives for the DAs to allocate 1% of the
District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) to HIV/AIDS. Over 50% of the DAs have made
efforts to release fund for HIV/AIDS.




                                             - 13 -

However, while the GAC is well respected and its mandate appears to be well-understood by all
key stakeholders the concern was raised by various partners that the GARFUND management
had absorbed a disproportionate amount of its time and may have diverted its attention from
policy formulation, strategic planning and coordination of overall response to HIV/AIDS. In
addition, GAC did not strengthen its dialogue with the health sector to use HIV surveillance data
as key criteria for resource allocation community interventions. The standardized funding
mechanism which lacked flexibility during project implementation constituted a lost opportunity
to build an evidence-based HIV response after the first calls for proposals. Finally, little attention
was paid to quality of interventions as field investigations targeted only 20% of funded
organizations and focused more on control and financial accountability than on outputs and
outcomes of community interventions.

(ii)Procurement

GAC has made significant progress in complying with procurement procedures. The April 2003
audit report indicated that procurement was carried out in accordance with procedures defined in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). A 2003 Procurement assessment found that for
contracts below the prior-review threshold, signed between January 2002 and April 2003, agreed
procedures were generally followed. GAC has maintained a standard procurement office, and its
records are classified according to bid packages.

However, the last Bank mission showed that several challenges remained in procurement and
should be addressed during implementation of future projects. They are mainly related to: (i)
procurement filing with documentation of contracts frequently mixed up with unrelated processes;
(ii) insufficient involvement of procurement manager in monitoring the procurement aspect of
subproject implementation that was solely carried out by external auditors, GAC field
investigators and the GAC internal auditor; and; (iii) unclear definition of procurement manager
duties and responsibilities.

(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation

GAC has demonstrated strong commitment to Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and significant
progress has been made on M&E of national response. A national HIV/AIDS monitoring and
evaluation plan for 2001 and 2005 has been established, and annual reports were regularly
produced throughout the life of the project. Focal Points were identified at regional and district
levels to facilitate monitoring and develop simple reporting formats for use by GARFUND
beneficiaries. By 2004, the reporting rates among the districts had already reached 70%. Financial
audits of subcomponents complemented this effort. The National AIDS Control Program (NACP)
has improved biological surveillance and the reports were regularly published on a yearly basis.
NACP also analyzed the preliminary report of the Ghana Demographic and Household Survey
(2003) to provide a clear picture of the status of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ghana. Systems to
collect second-generation biological and behavioral surveillance data are functional.




                                              - 14 -

Despite these commendable efforts, GAC failed to systematically document relevant information
and collate quantitative statistics to assess the project's achievements; provide feedback to
regions; districts and beneficiaries that provided the data; and take timely decisions to improve
project performance. In addition, there are independent monitoring and evaluation reporting
systems which do not feed into the district, regional, and national HIV/AIDS response, and this
may have led to inadequate knowledge about the response at various levels. Furthermore, except
for Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs) in selected regions, miners and the Police; there is limited
surveillance among high risk groups; and due to the limited involvement of the private health
sector, AIDS cases are underreported. Finally, GAC focused solely on process data
(disbursement, inputs) and relied on external partners to regularly collect important output and
outcome information that could have provided a clearer picture of HIV-related behavior trends in
the country. Thus, it did not have any leverage to influence the timing of data collection, and was
not able to avoid the delayed availability of BSS data, for example.

(iv) Financial Management

GAC has developed sound financial systems, which allowed adequate financial monitoring. The
external annual audits conducted during project implementation affirmed that GAC's financial
procedures were in compliance with internationally accepted standards. GAC has set up different
internal controls to ensure that funds are used for intended purposes and are accounted for before
subsequent disbursements are made to project beneficiaries : (i) recipient CBOs and NGOs were
required to provide regular financial support; (ii) independent field officers conducted annual
financial reviews of 20% of all beneficiary organizations; (iii) focal points at the district level
regularly monitored recipient community organizations; (iv) NGOs and CBOs were required to
provide regular progress report on their activities; and; (v) Ernst and Young was selected to
conduct an investigation of 20% of projects funded under the first round, which triggered greater
transparency and accountability and can be considered as a best practice. GAC field investigators
conducted about 300 random and unannounced visits to a sample of beneficiary organizations to
verify that disbursed funds were used for the intended purposes. The field visits helped ascertain
the existence of NGOs and CBOs; interviewed beneficiaries and other community members for
information about the relevance of the sub-projects; as well as obtain some basic M&E data and
inputs from beneficiaries. Some cases of irregularities in use of funds were reported, further
investigated and corrective measures were taken.

The key challenges reported in financial management was the lengthy GOG disbursement
procedures, mainly because of the review by the Accountant General's office that precedes the
deposit of funds into the recipients' bank account, and weak internal controls within some
beneficiary organizations.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                - 15 -

Institutional development impact of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project has
strengthened GAC to become a viable multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary body, which serves as
a lead agency for policy development and coordination of the national response to the pandemic.
Through GAC, the project has strengthened the capacity of MDAs, NGOs, CBOs FBOs, and
private sector organizations to effectively deal with the fight against the HIV/AIDS in Ghana.
GAC has effectively championed the process for the preparation of 2006-2010 National Strategic
Frameworks by bringing together all stakeholders, and ensuring effective stakeholder
consultations. This framework, among other things, will adequately deal with issues such as
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), anti-retroviral treatment (ARVs), prevention of mother
to child transmission (PMTCT), care and support of OVCs and gender.




                                              - 16 -

The project has also been successful in building decentralized structures at district levels.
At decentralized levels, a concerted effort has been made to integrate and mainstream the
HIV/AIDS response in the regional and District Assemblies (DAs) work plans to ensure
ownership and not to set up parallel structures. The HIV/AIDS committees are thus comprised of
a subset of representatives of the respective assemblies at the regional and district levels.
Representatives of these structures have benefited greatly from various training programs (see
component 2). The project has also strengthened the capacities of Focal Points to adequately
implement HIV/AIDS awareness programs in the MDAs.

Except for the 28 newly created districts, all of the other 110 districts have a multi-sectoral
District AIDS Committees. Within the committee, a District Response Initiative Management
Teams (DRIMT) monitors HIV/AIDS programs and provides technical assistance to CBOs,
FBOs, and NGOs. To monitor HIV/AIDS activities implemented by various stakeholders, each
District Assembly has appointed a district monitoring and evaluation focal person. Some districts
also have focal persons responsible for monitoring HIV/AIDS activities implemented by sectors
such as social welfare and health.

Unfortunately, the project, right from the design phase, did not make allocation to provide any
support to the National AIDS/STD Control Program (NACP), which is primarily responsible for
the provision of care and support, including treatment of opportunistic infections and
antiretroviral treatment (ART). The NACP is also responsible for monitoring the epidemic
through HIV sentinel surveillance and behavioral surveys. Furthermore, the GAC did not set up a
regular consultation mechanism with NACP that should have been systematically involved in the
approval and monitoring of NGOs proposals of                  HIV/AIDS-related health services (VCT,
PMTCT, Care); to ensure their compliance with guidelines developed for the delivery of quality
health services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The impact of factors outside the control of the government and the implementing agency has
been substantial. First, the project was slightly delayed by a change of government following
presidential elections in December 2000. In the transition between governments, the coordination
between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Multi-Ministerial Working Group (MMWG)
which was in charge of project preparation weakened. Second, logistical issues confronted field
monitoring, supervision, and investigation teams, especially at the regional level. Inadequacy of
logistics was repeatedly emphasized by various reviewers, but GAC could not do anything about
it since expenditure on logistics was ineligible. Third, working practices of some development
partners were said to be partly responsible for weaknesses in coordination of the national
response, as they did not work in accordance with the structures established by the National
Strategic Framework (NSF). Some partners were even reluctant to declare funds and their
different funding and reporting arrangements made it difficult to monitor resource flow and
allocations.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The impact of factors subject to government control has been substantial. The high level of


                                                     - 17 -

political leadership provided by the President, the Vice president, Members of Parliament (MPs)
positively influenced project implementation. The government's unflinching support for GAC also
paved the way for smooth implementation of the activities. Moreover, the Act of Parliament,
which established GAC provided an enabling environment for implementation.

However, the emergence of tensions between GAC and the MOH during the early stages of
project implementation did not create a favorable atmosphere for project operations. The MOH
did not feel fully empowered by the project to expand the fight against HIV/AIDS, especially in
the areas of care and support where unmet needs were lingering. Assisting the MOH through its
own SWAP would, in theory, have been advantageous in terms of integrating HIV/AIDS
activities into public health priorities; but, in practice, it was not well suited for addressing
program specific needs. The SWAP resources could not be earmarked for HIV/AIDS from the
outset and the Bank-funded Treatment Acceleration Project is still in the early stages of
implementation. It was fortunate that, through dialogue and facilitation by external partners, a
memorandum of understanding that clarifies roles of MOH and GAC was signed towards the end
of this project and will guide the implementation of M-SHAP. In addition, difficulties emerged
between GAC and the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) with
respect to the leadership of the District Response Initiative (DRI). The DRI was a bottom up
initiative aimed at building AIDS competent communities. Moreover, with the exception of the
education sector, MDAs did not provide sufficient human resources to champion the fight against
HIV/AIDS and support focal points that were sometimes overwhelmed by their other tasks.
Finally, MDAs had difficulty in providing the requisite 10% contribution (counterpart funds) for
their action plans. The percentage was temporarily reduced to 5%, but even then a substantial
number of MDAs were unable to start the program, while the GOG could have made the funds
available as a proof of its commitment to HIV/AIDS control.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The impact of factors subject to implementing agency control has been substantial. The project's
proposal review and disbursement processes were lengthy and bureaucratic. Reports from
recipients of GARFUND support indicated that it took between two to three months for
proposals to be approved. After approval, further delays were observed before the release of
funds. The delays were mainly due to the Secretariat's own internal processes, external processes
at the Controller and Accountant General's Department, and the banking system. This situation
slowed down implementation by grant recipients particularly at the initial stage of the project, but
led to greater accountability of funds. Many implementing partners also lacked the capacity to
provide quality reports as even very new NGOs and CBOs could access funding.




                                                    - 18 -

The planning process seldom brought together stakeholders' action plans into a common
framework. Departmental staff within the ministries had little knowledge of the internal response
that was developed by Focal Points. This situation could have been improved if the GAC
Secretariat, which was designed to be a small unit of about 10 staff, contracted out some key
functions such as M&E. The interim review of the GARFUND also called for a more strategic
approach to a multisectoral HIV/AIDS response that promotes the involvement of all key
stakeholders of key geographic areas to build a common response to the epidemic and avoid
duplication within and between sectors, but all stakeholders agreed to wait the second phase of
the project to implement this approach.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated total project cost as reported in the PAD was $US27.8 million. The actual project
cost over the entire life of the project totaled US$ 26.5 million. Total IDA credit allocation at
appraisal was 19.6 million SDR equivalent to US$25.0 million. The credit was fully disbursed.
Outstanding withdrawals, after December 31, 2005 to April 30, 2006 amounted to US$0.3 million

A grant amount of 20 million pound sterling was provided by the DFID to support activities
carried out under component 1. At the end of the project, the government had contributed a total
amount of US$1.7 million. IDA and the GOG combined disbursed a total amount of US$26.5
million.

The table below illustrates actual and cumulative disbursements as reported by the borrower
throughout the project.


            Year                    2002    2003        2004        2005        2006      Total
           Actual(US$                2.46   9.20        9.67        6.22        0.12      27.97
            million)*
           Cumulative                2.46   11.67      21.63        27.85       27.97     27.97


*Sum of all components
Source: Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC)


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability of GARFUND is likely due to strong government commitment,
increased capacity, increasing donor support and continued institutional and managerial
strengthening of GAC, NACP and other stakeholders.

The GOG, has demonstrated strong political commitment to the national response and is likely to
provide support to the fight against the epidemic. Even though support in programmatic planning
and strategic focus should be strengthened, GAC has the technical capacity to effectively
coordinate, supervise and harmonize all HIV/AIDS programs. Donor support is also likely to


                                                - 19 -

continue in the implementation of future HIV/AIDS programs, which could sustain several project
achievements. For instance, (i) funding of subprojects under prevention and care component is
likely to benefit from funding by the DfID and M-SHAP; and; (ii) gains in institutional capacity of
GAC and NACP with respect to skills, experience, equipment, management and recognition are
likely to continue in future. Social sustainability, that relies heavily on behavior change outcomes,
is likely as the project was able to influence the adoption of positive behaviors and attitudes
towards HIV/AIDS by regional authorities, central government officials, civil society
representatives and community members.

However, the sustainability of GAC will depend on the commitment of the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning (MOFEP) to finance the GAC's operating cost from 2006 and staff
salaries from 2008, and provide funding for MDAs financial contribution to their subprojects. The
Project's sustainability will also depend on the ability of GAC to: (i) focus on quality and
effectiveness by implementing the recommendations of the 2003 GARFUND interim review and
2004 joint HIV/AIDS Program Review; (ii) shorten the lengthy and cumbersome disbursement
process where approved funds had to pass through many channel members ( GAC Secretariat,
MOF, Controller and Accountant General's Department, and the Bank) to get to the final
beneficiaries; (iii) harmonize the wide variations in program implementation expertise of various
NGOs; and (iv) strengthen its monitoring, evaluation and supervision procedures by focusing
more on outcomes than on processes. In future programs, GAC should track project
achievements through regular reporting on quantitative indicators and make necessary changes as
needed.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In order to scale up and ensure continuity of the national response to the HIV/AIDS, a follow-up
project Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program (M-SHAP), has been approved by the World Bank and
will be effective by end of March 2006. The development objectives of M-SHAP are to: (i) reduce
the new infections among vulnerable groups and the general population; (ii) mitigate the impact of
the epidemic on the health and socio-economic systems as well as infected and affected persons;
and (iii) promote healthy life-styles, especially in the area of sexual and reproductive health.
M-SHAP aims to further pursue, strengthen and consolidate some of the activities initiated under
GARFUND, which include, among other things, policies to protect the rights of PLWHA;
coordination and management of the MDAs and Regional AIDS Commissions (RACs); activities
directed towards vulnerable social groups; interventions aimed at bringing about behavior change
among at-risk groups; and scaling up anti retroviral therapy, VCT, and management of sexually
transmitted infections. M-SHAP has put all the required inputs in place for effective operation. It
has also relied on lessons learned from GARFUND. Concerns were raised, during GARFUND
supervision missions, about the lack of priority given to activities targeting groups with high risk
behaviors and communities that live in high prevalence geographic areas. The fourth call for
proposals attempted to address this situation and extensive discussions were held during appraisal
of M-SHAP to reverse the trend during its future implementation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated as moderately satisfactory


                                                  - 20 -

because of the design flaws discussed in the quality at entry section. The Ghana MAP I main body
of the PAD did not include prevalence reduction as an indicator of project performance whereas
Annex I of the Ghana MAP I PAD did. It was the responsibility of Bank management and
advisers to ensure consistency within the PAD and with the overall MAP concept approved by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors which clearly indicated that reduction in HIV prevalence
was not an objective of the first phase of MAP financing.

A technical launch of the project took place early 2003, which afforded the GAC and Bank staff
the opportunity to: (i) ensure that key stakeholders had a good understanding of GARFUND's
objectives, and modalities for accessing funds (including procurement and disbursement issues);
(ii) assist in identifying priority activities that would be funded; (iii) discuss modalities for the
further involvement of district authorities using as a basis the Community Driven Development
(CDD) approach; and monitoring and evaluation plans.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory despite insufficient reporting and
implementation support during early stages of the project. Subsequently, supervision greatly
improved through the posting of the TTL in the field, which led to a turn around in project
performance. Bank staff embarked on consistent supervision missions, and sufficiently reported
implementation progress in the key project documents (aide-memoires, PSRs/ISRs etc.). The
Bank staff maintained good rapport with GAC and government advising and directing GAC about
how things could get done on timely basis. Consistent efforts were made to include senior
management and ACT Africa in meetings and reviews aimed at sustaining GOG ownership,
involving key DPs and supporting project implementation. An interim review was organized with
the involvement of all key DPs in HIV/AIDS and some of the lessons learnt were implemented to
improve project performance. Notwithstanding these efforts, the Bank's supervision team could
not track quantitatively project output indicators to obtain concrete figures, at each stage of
implementation. The key performance indicators matrices at the end of most PSR/ISRs are
generally blank.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In the light of the discussions in sections 7.1 and 7.2 above, the overall bank performance is
rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance at preparation is rated as satisfactory. The government engaged in
intensive negotiations with Bank team and championed all stakeholder consultations through
GAC at the preparation stage to ensure smooth take off the project. However, government's
inability to meet two key effectiveness conditions (the recruitment of the executive secretary of
GAC and the recruitment of auditors), delayed project effectiveness. The original effective date,
which was scheduled for late 2001, had to be postponed to May 8, 2002 . The biggest impediment
to effectiveness of the project was the delay in parliamentary approval of credit effectiveness
documentation, which was out of the control of the government. In spite of the delay in project
effectiveness, the GAC initiated numerous contacts with potential beneficiaries so they could start
implementation once the operation was declared effective. The GAC also held consultations with



                                                    - 21 -

all stakeholders (NGOs, CBOs, and the civil society) to explain the operating modalities of the
project and solicit subproject proposals. This helped to offset the initial delay and put the
operation back on track.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The government provided
an enabling and conducive atmosphere for GAC to do business without interference. Furthermore,
the relationship between GAC and government was highly cordial, with GAC officials
collaborating effectively with top government officials. However, there were delays in the release
of government's counterpart fund contribution. Moreover, as indicated in section 4.2, MDAs had
difficulty in providing the requisite counterpart funding, because the central government made no
budgetary provision for their HIV/AIDS activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance is rated as satisfactory. In April 2002, GAC organized
a Project Launch Workshop which brought together all stakeholders including line Ministries,
NGOs, CBOs, civil society, district authorities for intensive discussions on implementation.
GAC's intensive effort to bring together all stakeholders resulted in over 500 proposals prepared
by NGOs, CBOs, districts, line ministries and other civil society groups to obtain funding for
HIV/AIDS related interventions even before the technical launch of the project. Though
disbursement was slower at the beginning of the project, GAC has effectively managed the project
to a 100% rate of disbursement (see figure 1 in section 5.4). As indicated in section 4.2, GAC has
demonstrated high level of commitment to implementation resulting in significant progress.
Finally, GAC contribution to the development of midterm review and implementation completion
reports was optimal with sufficient attention to timeliness and quality.

However, GAC staff could not make monitoring information readily available for decision making
until the last call for proposals, and several planned studies needed to evaluate project outcome
were not completed, including behavior surveys and the process evaluation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into consideration the discussions in sections 7.4, 7.5, and 7.6 above, the overall
borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1. The use of HIV prevalence data, though an excellent monitoring tool for the epidemic
in countries, should not be a measure of success of a Bank funded HIV/AIDS project. In a
mature or maturing epidemic where mortality due to HIV/AIDS becomes a significant factor in
determining prevalence rates and in a country that embarks on a rapid ART scale-up, prevalence
cannot be regarded as a valid indicator to measure success or failure.

8.2. The decision to design the project without and MoH component was not appropriate.
In follow-up MAP operations, it is needed to include a health component with dedicated funding
mechanisms to fully empower the MOH in delivering key health related HIV prevention and care
services that will respond to increased demands of communities induced by civil society
interventions.



                                                - 22 -

8.3. Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in the formal education sector was effective for
comprehensive targeting of at-risk youth who reported reduction in number of partners and
increased use of condoms.

8.4. Contracting out an international auditor to assess the use of funds by civil society
organizations contributed to a balance between implementation facilitation and fiduciary
responsibility.

8.5. Decentralization of HIV/AIDS response is very successful in Ghana as demonstrated by
the strong ownership of GARFUND by provinces and districts. It proved that the monitoring
and evaluation functions in large scale financing of civil society organizations are well served by a
functional decentralized set-up, when issues related to capacity building including time allocation
for focal persons are adequately addressed.

8.6. Development Partner collaboration and co-financing was successful and should be
promoted and expanded. Performance of capacity building interventions were optimized by the
collaborative effort established between the MAP operation, which has primarily funded
sub-projects, USAID which has supported project start up activities, and DFID which has
supported training and technical assistance to potential beneficiaries and to the GAC through
parallel funding.

8.7. An effective monitoring and evaluation system is essential for optimal effectiveness of
the MAP "learning by doing" strategy. The M&E system should have been strengthened by: (i)
developing a standard program activity monitoring form for all recipients to enable effective
aggregation of data at all levels that allows the regular flow of data for decision making; (ii)
ensuring systematic epidemiological surveillance of vulnerable groups and use data to better
understand HIV transmission dynamics and critical intervention opportunities; (iii) developing a
results-oriented approach to the financing of NGOs/CBOs/FBOs and the private sector. The
project M&E design also needs to plan for the collecting of key indicators at mid-term and prior
to project closure, to facilitate evaluation of the project.

8.8. There is an urgent need to strengthen the focus on strategic management of the
epidemic and tailor the multisectoral approach to Ghana's contained and relatively stable
epidemic. Priority should be given to emerging issues with regards to antiretroviral treatment,
orphans and other vulnerable children, voluntary counseling and testing, prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, and prevention activities among high risk groups (CSW and their
clients, discordant couples, prisoners, and MSM). Furthermore, future interventions should focus
more on quality and effectiveness of civil society interventions rather than on quantitative criteria
such as number of projects and disbursement rates.

8.9. The private sector as an engine of growth should be more largely and systematically
included in the implementation of the MAP projects. Future interventions should build on its
existing interventions within and outside of the GARFUND project and on the private sector's
potential to substantially contribute financially to prevention efforts. The private sector can also



                                                  - 23 -

support the adoption of sustainable strategies for financial support of PLWHA by providing them
with work and reducing stigma in the workplace.

8.10. The financing of salaries through donor funds should be considered with caution
where it concerns the financing of institutions that need continued and sustainable
financing beyond the scope of projects.




                                               - 24 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                              Government's contribition

                          GHANA AIDS COMMISSION




                  "working actively and in partnership to combat HIV/AIDS"




                                    GARFUND

                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                 COMPLETION
                                     REPORT



                                         Submitted to:

             Implementation Support/Implementation Completion (ICR) Mission


                                       March 31, 2006




                                             - 25 -

- 26 -

                                  TABLE OF CONTENT

1.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
    MECHANISMS                                                                     1
1.1 Project Goals and Objectives                                                   1
1.2 Project Design, Components and Strategic Approach                              1
1.3 Implementation Arrangements                                                    3
1.4 The Environmental Context                                                      3

2.  OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE AND COVERAGE                                    4
2.1 Regional Projects                                                              4
2.2 Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)                            5
2.3 Private Sector                                                                 5
2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      5
2.5 Information, Education and Communication                                       5
2.6 Research                                                                       6

3.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE                                                          6
3.1 Disbursement                                                                   6
3.2 Replenishment                                                                  6
3.3 Accounting                                                                     6
3.4 Monitoring and Supervision                                                     7

4.  PROCUREMENT                                                                    7
4.1 Objective, Processes and Guidelines                                            7
4.2 Key Issues                                                                     7

5.  CAPACITY BUILDING ACTIVITIES                                                   8

6.  EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                               8

7.  EVALUATION OF GOVERNMENT'S PERFORMANCE                                         9

8.  LESSONS LEARNT AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                     9

    APPENDICES:
    Appendix 1: Number of GARFUND Projects by Year & Region
    Appendix 2: Research Activities Supported Under GARFUND
    Appendix 3: National Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators, 2001  2005
    Appendix 4: Publications & Reports
    Appendix 5: IEC Materials Produced
    Appendix 6: TV Productions
    Appendix 7: Radio Programs
    Appendix 8: Music Productions
    Appendix 9: National Level Capacity Building Activities Covered Under GARFUND
    Appendix 10: District Level Capacity Building Activities by Region & Activity/Course
    Appendix 11:GARFUND Disbursements & Withdrawals
    Appendix 12:Project Disbursement by Procurement Method


                                             - 27 -

Appendix 13:GAC Professional Staff




                                    - 28 -

1.      Project objectives, design and implementation mechanisms


1.1     Project goals and objectives

The overall goal of GARFUND was to support implementation of the government's national
strategy to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and its impact on persons already infected and
affected. The specific objectives as articulated in the government's "National HIV/AIDS Strategic
Framework, 2001-2005 included: (i) to reduce new HIV infections by 30% by 2005; and (ii) to
improve service delivery and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on individuals and families.

The project objectives corresponded to a crucial need identified by the Government of Ghana to
undertake a comprehensive national response to prevent, control and manage the impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ghana. Progress made as at the end of the project toward the Project
Development Objective is assessed overall as fully satisfactory. The most recent reports from
biological surveillance, including the HIV Sentinel Survey (2004 Report) indicated that the
median level of HIV/AIDS in Ghana was 3.1%. This is somewhat lower than the level estimated
at the time the World Bank's Project Appraisal document (PAD) was prepared, but higher than
the levels estimated in 2000 and 2001 which were only 2.5% and 2.8%. The 3.1% prevalence
recorded for 2004 represents an approximate decrease of 14% over the prevalence recorded in
2003 (3.6%). This decrease does not necessarily represent an overall decline of HIV infection in
the country although it indicates a leveling or stabilization of the epidemic. (Results of the 2005
Sentinel Survey Report are yet to be released). The project objective, namely "to reduce new
HIV infections by 30% by 2005" as stipulated in the National Strategic Framework, was a bit
ambitious in the light of the existing implementation capacity then for its achievement.

1.2.    Project design, components and strategic approach

GARFUND was designed to enable the Government implement a balanced, diversified
multi-sector    response   to   the   epidemic,   engaging    all  relevant   government    sectors,
non-governmental organizations, the private sector and grassroots initiatives to undertake
HIV/AIDS intervention activities throughout the country. The multi-sectoral and developmental
approach adopted was strategic and beneficial in that it has contributed significantly (i) in
promoting acceptance of the project by various stakeholders at all levels of society; and (ii) in
eliciting positive responses from all parties who have come to acknowledge that the project is of
major concern to them and that their participation is necessary.

The project was designed to cover four (4) components as follows:

Component 1: Prevention and Care Services: This component financed governmental (excluding
health) and civil society entities to provide a broad spectrum of preventive and care activities at
national, regional and local levels. It supported a wide-range of activities aimed at raising
awareness, reducing high-risk sexual behavior, mitigating the impact on those affected and
promotion of income-generating activities. It was designed to provide funds to public and civil-


                                                - 29 -

society entities at all levels of society undertaking such intervention activities. Total funding
allocation for this component was US$21 million and represented nearly 76% of the total
GARFUND. Total amount disbursed at the end of the project was US$21.971 million.

Component 2:Strengthening Public/Private Institutions for HIV/AIDS Control and Care
Giving. This component supported training and technical assistance for public and private-sector
institutions on technical and practical aspects of working with HIV/AIDS. Total funding
allocation for this component was US$2.4 and at the end of the project total amount disbursed
was US$1.554 million. This component has empowered the local structures with financial and
decision-making authority and strengthened capacities at the local level.

Component 3: Knowledge Management.                 This component provided support for the
establishment of systems for collecting, organizing, and disseminating up-to-date information on
HIV/AIDS prevention and care, best practices of existing projects, research results, and any
reports that would be useful to implementing entities. It also financed activities that aimed at
promoting sharing of experiences among organizations as well as collaboration with research
institutions and support to traditional medicine centers for testing of herbal preparations. A total
of US$1.4 million was allocated to this component and at the end of the project, the total amount
disbursed was US$505,886. Disbursement under this component was low because supplementary
funding was obtained from the GAPP Project (DFID) and the SIPAA Project (Action Aid).

Component 4: Project Management.             This component covered funding for design and
establishment of systems for managing implementation of the project. A key aspect of the
component was a monitoring and evaluation system established to monitor GARFUND activities
and assess progress on the basis of targets defined in the National Strategic Framework. Also
covered under this component was financial and procurement monitoring. Technical audits on a
sample of 20% of sub-projects were carried out on annual basis as well as special audits and field
investigations of operations of project beneficiaries. Total allocation for this component was
US$3.0 million and at the end of the project US$2.5 million had been disbursed. Management and
co-ordination of the project have been fully satisfactory throughout the operational period.
Management of the GAC Secretariat has maintained a high degree of commitment and
professionalism in managing the project. The Secretariat was woefully understaffed throughout
the period. With only ten (10) professional staff, however, significant achievements were made.
(See Appendix 13: Professional Staff of GAC Secretariat). A joint review of the national response
was successfully undertaken and it provided useful inputs to the design of more effective
strategies for strengthening implementation of the next phase of the national response.

1.3. Implementation arrangements


i. National level: GARFUND was implemented through decentralized structures which afforded
the opportunity for participation at all levels of the society. At the national level, a 48-member
Ghana AIDS Commission, established by Act 613 of Parliament in 2002 under the Chairmanship
of H. E. The President and with membership of H. E. The Vice-President and all key Sector
Ministers, civil society and faith-based organizations and the private organizations, provided



                                                - 30 -

effective leadership and direction in the co-ordination of the national response.

ii. Sector level: At the sector level HIV/AIDS Committees have been established in various
MDAs to plan and co-ordinate HIV/AIDS activities in those institutions. Key among them is the
National AIDS/STD Control Program (NACP) within the Ghana Health Services which has been
operating effectively as the technical advisory wing of the Commission and provided treatment,
care and support services and monitoring of the epidemic through sentinel surveillance and
behavioral surveys. Sector AIDS Committees have also been instituted in many MDAs with Focal
persons directly responsible for day-to-day coordination of HIV/AIDS activities.

iii. Regional level: Regional AIDS Committees have been established within the Regional
Coordinating Councils (RCCs) in all the ten (10) regions of the country. Regional Monitoring and
Evaluation Focal Persons have also been appointed to be directly responsible for overseeing
activities in the districts.

iv. District level: At the district level multi-sectoral District AIDS Committees (DACs) have been
established in 110 districts of the country to serve as the pivotal points of HIV/AIDS activities at
that level. District Monitoring and Evaluation Focal Persons have also been appointed in each
district and are directly responsible for HIV/AIDS activities in the district.


1.4.     The Environmental context

GARFUND was implemented in a generally supportive environment. A number of laws relevant
to the national HIV/AIDS response existed even before the enactment of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategic Framework. These include the Constitution of the Fourth Republic of Ghana, which
gives every citizen the right to health care and education and outlaws all forms of human rights
abuses, including discrimination and dismissal from employment on any grounds.

The Ghana AIDS Commission, established as a supra-ministerial and multi-sectoral body,
provided the enabling environment for effective implementation of the national response. The
location of the Commission within the highest office of the nation, the Presidency, reflects the
high-level leadership and politically supportive environment and commitment which have
contributed immensely to successful implementation of the project.

2.       Operational experience and coverage
As at 2005, GARFUND activities had covered over 3,000 implementing entities comprising
MDAs/RCCs, DAs, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs and private sector organizations in all regions, districts
and communities in the country.

2.1      Regional projects
        Ashanti Region: A total of 557 entities were funded to undertake intervention activities
that included advocacy, video shows, drama performances, peer education, condom distribution,
and counseling. 420 PLWHAs were also trained as peer counselors and liaison between ART sites
and the PLWHA associations.



                                                  - 31 -

       Central Region: 257 subprojects were sponsored for prevention, awareness and peer
education activities. Formation of youth clubs was a popular model adopted by several CBOs.
       Eastern Region: 638 organizations were supported to undertake activities in prevention,
awareness and care and support for PLWHAs and OVC through drama, film shows,
house-to-house campaigning, peer education, and durbars.
       Greater Accra Region: 317 sub-projects were completed with focus on prevention and
awareness. Activities included peer education, condom distribution, voluntary counseling and
testing, community fora,, care and support of PLWHAs and OVCs as well as provision of
microcredit opportunities to those infected and affected.
       Northern Region: 207 sub-projects were completed with the focus on prevention.
Activities covered mass media campaigning and workshops, condom distribution and peer
education. A major challenge faced by CBOs in the region was countering beliefs that HIV/AIDS
is a curse from the ancestors, and not preventable.
       Volta Region: 289 sub-projects were completed with the focus on prevention and
awareness and many activities directed at the youth. Peer education, condom distribution, and
dissemination of HIV/AIDS messages on community billboards were among the activities.
       Upper East Region: 96 awareness and prevention sub-projects were completed with
distribution of condoms as a major activity. Other activities were house-to-house campaigns
involving trained peer educators and, among the youth, drama performances.
       Upper West Region: 73 sub-projects were completed with focus on awareness and
prevention and activities that involved several religious organizations. The activities included peer
education, house-to-house outreach, income generating and care and support.
       Western Region: 208 sub-projects were completed with the focus on awareness creation.
The main target groups were children, the youth, market women, fisherman and fishmongers.
Free VCT services were also provided by several districts in the region.
       Brong Ahafo Region: 313 sub-projects were completed with the focus on prevention
and awareness. Activities included condom distribution, peer education, durbars, care and support
and psychosocial support through counseling as well as provision of home-based care services.
(See Appendix 1: Number of GARFUND Projects by Year and Region).

2.2     Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA)
Over the course of GARFUND implementation, a total of 71 projects were awarded to MDAs
(See Appendix 1). All of the MDA have HIV/AIDS focal persons responsible for overseeing the
implementation of HIV/AIDS activities, including monitoring and evaluation, within their
respective sectors.

2.3     The Private sector
Under GARFUND, twenty-one (21) private sector organizations were funded to carry out
primarily workplace intervention programs. Through this, greater commitment has been realized
for participation of private enterprises in the national response. A significant outcome of this
engagement is the planning for establishment of the Ghana Business Coalition.




                                                - 32 -

2.4     Monitoring and evaluation of GARFUND
The national Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) plan provided the framework for tracking and
assessing the implementation and impact of the GARFUND (Appendix 3). Thus far in the
monitoring and evaluation process, emphasis was placed on the output indicators of the
subprojects. The regional coordinating councils and district assemblies were mandated, as of
2003, to submit bi-annual and quarterly monitoring and evaluation reports which provided an
inventory of the number and type of activities undertaken in their jurisdiction. As of 2003, all 10
regions and 110 districts had focal persons trained in monitoring and evaluation. On the whole 27
indicators were used to monitor GARFUND activities..

2.5     Information, education and communication
GARFUND supported many activities that promoted public awareness and media involvement in
the national response. Workshops were organized to improve on media reportage on HIV/AIDS.
Various partnerships were formed such as with GAMA Films Company to run productions on
HIV/AIDS. A National Integrated IEC/BCC strategy was developed and launched in 2005. GAC
also sponsored talk shows on HIV/AIDS activities on radio stations country wide (Appendix 7).
Bill boards bearing HIV/AIDS Messages were designed, produced and erected in selected
districts in the country. The major challenge facing the country is that of behavior change. IEC
materials were developed to provide useful HIV/AIDS information to the general public to help in
promoting behavior change (Appendix 5). Under GARFUND the communication process was not
target-specific but related to the general population. The message content itself was to increase
awareness and did not sell the kind of benefit that will provide skills and motivation for someone
to want to change his/her behavior. (See Appendix 5: IEC Materials Produced Under
GARFUND.)

2.6     Research
Many relevant research activities were supported under the knowledge management component
of GARFUND. Results of the researches have significantly improved the national response by
providing useful insights into the specific aspects of the Ghanaian HIV/AIDS epidemic and
providing evidence for the adoption of high-impact interventions. Through the research activities,
quality of care for PLWHAs has improved and specific vulnerable groups sufficiently addressed
with the prevention messages. Research and surveillance data will provide the basis for the
development of the next generation of programs, while monitoring and evaluation will be used as
tools to guide the implementation of programs and activities.          (See Appendix 2: Research
Activities Supported Under GARFUND).

3.      Financial performance

3.1     Disbursement

GARFUND overall budget was $27.8 million and it became effective on 8th May, 2002. By the
end of 31 December, 2005, (i.e. 3 years and 7months) the budget had been fully disbursed. Total
disbursement then was $26.5 million. Disbursement commenced late but was done in a record
time. The process was decentralized with funds being disbursed to the source of operations in the
districts through the entities' special Bank Accounts established for the purpose. Transfer of funds



                                               - 33 -

from GAC Special Account to the entities Bank Accounts was aided by the rural Banking System
which existed in the country.

3.2     Replenishment

Replenishment from the credit to the GAC Special Account after disbursement was splendid. In
all 48 withdrawal applications were submitted to the World Bank during the project period. All
the applications were received in full except for some 2 applications which experienced some
reduced amount due to wrong classification of cost.

3.3     Accounting

At the commencement of the project GAC established a robust computerized accounting system
aided by a comprehensive and user friendly accounting and administrative manual. This helped
GAC to account for the project funds in a timely manner. Implementing entities were trained in
fiduciary financial management and procurement and many manuals were developed for their use.
These activities facilitated disbursement, procurement and accounting for grants and had salutary
effect on the financial performance of the project.

3.4     Monitoring and supervision

Funds disbursed to the Districts for NGO and CBO activities were supervised by the district
assemblies. District teams monitored usage of the funds in the districts and reported to GAC.
GAC financial consultants were also dispatched to the Districts, MDAs and Private Sector
entities to monitor the operations and use of the funds in their respective organizations and report
to GAC. At the end of each fiscal year independent Auditors were appointed to carry out external
audit of all implementing entities and from time to time field investigations conducted on their
operations. All these helped in meeting compliance with reporting and audit requirements.

4.      Procurement

4.1     Objective, processes and guidelines

 The principles of fairness, transparency, equal opportunity, economy and efficiency guided
procurement practices in implementation of the GARFUND. The overriding objective was the
procurement of goods and services that were fit for purpose through the selection of the Most
Economically Advantageous Tender. Procurement with IDA funds was mainly for goods and
services; there were no civil works.

 Procurement was done at two levels, namely (i) the GAC Secretariat and (ii) subprojects
 (programs) level. At the GAC Secretariat, procurement consisted of: (i) goods and equipment
 for the Secretariat; (ii) technical services for the Secretariat; and (iii) small lump sum consultancy
 services for the Secretariat.. Procurement of goods and services was guided by IDA Guidelines
 and the Public Procurement Act of 2003, Act 663. At the sub-project level, Procurement was
 done to meet the requirements of             proposals submitted by the implementing agencies.



                                                   - 34 -

 Comprehensive guidelines and clearly defined criteria for selection and appraisal were
 documented in the GAC Operational Manual and disseminated through workshops.

4.2     Key issues

i. Successes
- The introduction of the output-based contract for CBOs increased the speed of disbursement
and project implementation.
- The use of M & E Monitoring Focal Persons at the Districts to monitor/verify outputs of CBOs
greatly enhanced their performance.

ii. Challenges at the Subproject Level
Matching contribution requirement of the grant financing agreements was in most cases not met,
especially in the case of MDAs and even when it was later on revised to 5%.

iii. Variation in Corporate Governance Expertise of Civil Society Organizations
There were wide variations in the expertise of NGOs. This did not allow for the design of
appropriate and user-friendly procurement manual for use. In the course of implementation of the
GARFUND, steps were taken to improve the capacities of the relatively weaker NGOs.

vi. Lengthy Disbursement Process
The process whereby disbursement to implementing agencies had to go through many channels
before getting to the final beneficiary was fraught with delays in project implementation.
Disbursement had to be routed from the GAC Secretariat, to Ministry of Finance, the Controller
and Accountant-General's Department and to the bank. Besides the long processing cycle, where
a particular signatory was not at work, there were also delays.

5.      Capacity building activities

Capacity building activities focused on providing technical training on HIV/AIDS to GARFUND
beneficiaries to help them prepare their HIV/AIDS plans. A substantial amount of capacity
building activities were undertaken during the period 2002 to 2005. This contributed significantly
towards scaling up national effort and strengthening the capacities of implementing agencies..
Capacity building activities under the GARFUND received complementary support from the
DFID funded SIPAA project and other funding sources. A total of nearly 20,000 implementing
agencies benefited from the capacity building activities which covered project design and
management, financial management and technical issues on HIV prevention, care and support.
(See Appendices 9 & 10).

6.      Evaluation of the Bank's performance

The support of the Bank in funding and implementation of the project has been enormous. The
Bank has done an excellent job in providing technical support to spearhead the establishment of
the Ghana AIDS Commission and in getting its operations off the ground through the
GARFUND. The GAC Management has enjoyed a close and fruitful working relationship with



                                               - 35 -

the Bank. The various missions undertaken by the Bank provided substantial guidance and
assisted the Ghana AIDS Commission in re-strategizing and contributed to effective project
implementation. The encouragement of the Bank for GAC to assume a bigger role in donor
co-ordination to disabuse the perception of the development partners of the project as a World
Bank activity is also commendable. GAC notes that the Bank collaborated well with other
development partners, sharing information and coordinating activities to the extent possible.


7.      Evaluation of Ghana Government's performance

The Government of Ghana has throughout the project period provided a very conducive
environment for implementation of the project. It has ensured that good governance policies
existed and there was virtually no governmental interference. The availability and unimpeded
access of GAC Management, development partners and other key stakeholders to the President's
own Adviser on HIV/AIDS for consultation and assistance from the initiation and establishment
of   the project, and direct involvement in various project activities is seen as a substantial
contribution on the part of government towards the success of the project. Among the key issues
of concern, however, were the rather undue delays in release of government's funding
contribution to the project. Government is taking appropriate measures to ensure that the next
phase of the national response does not experience this setback.

8.      Lessons learnt and recommendations
Among the lessons learnt in implementation of the GARFUND and recommendations made are
the following:

8.1     More resources are required

Scaling up the national response will require more resources. There are opportunities within
existing sources of funds to mobilize more resources to support the national response. These
include getting the District Assemblies to comply with government's directive to contribute 1% of
their common fund to HIV/AIDS activities, technical resources and expertise in the areas of
behavior change, management information systems and database development.

8.2     Enhanced targeted funding would be advantageous

Implementation of a targeted funding mechanism is necessary to help determine which particular
organizations should receive funding. Future funding decisions should be based in part on past
performance, if the organization is reapplying for continued support. Also, decisions on who will
receive funding will be determined by evidence-based research and solid contingency plans.

8.3     Disbursement
       Disbursing funds in tranches to implementers was a mechanism that made them diligent in
planning their activities and also helped GAC to disburse funds prudently.
       Disbursing funds directly to implementers' Special Accounts reduced bureaucracy and
costs of operation.
       Use of GAC's in-house capacity for procurement and financial management enhanced



                                              - 36 -

disbursement and recording of funds disbursed.
       Existing rural banks through which funds were channeled facilitated prompt disbursement
and thereby enhanced project performance.

8.4.    Accounting
       Fiduciary financial management training that was given to implementing agencies prior to
sub-project implementation resulted in proper accounting records being kept and disbursement of
funds was expeditious.
       Financial manuals designed for each class of implementers enhanced disbursement and
preparation of up-to-date financial information..

8.5     Replenishment
       Monthly reporting on draw downs of the credit helped to reduce liquidity problems during
implementation. This helped GAC to quickly disburse funds to implementing agencies in tranches.
Regular monthly draw down on credit greatly enhanced project performance.

8.6     Financial Monitoring and Supervision
       Where many implementing agencies were undertaking several different activities, different
methods of monitoring needed to be employed in order to maximize returns on the investments.
(e.g. field investigation, consultants, audit teams etc).
       Monitoring and supervision must be continuous and stringent in a project where
implementers are diverse and scattered all over the country.

8.7     Procurement
       Disbursements are necessary but insufficient conditions for successful NGO participation
in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
       Factors that could undermine NGO contributions, even when funding is accessible include
recognizing the wide variations in expertise of NGOs and consequently designing tailored,
user-friendly procurement manuals and a capacity building strategy based on preliminary needs
assessment.

8.8     Capacity Building
       The comprehensive capacity-building program for CSOs increased their competencies and
absorption capacities.
       Most of the CSOs that implemented various interventions needed deeper knowledge of
HIV/AIDS issues to ground their interventions. This was addressed through enhanced
organizational development and provision of basic HIV/AIDS competencies, program design and
management.
       The strategy of working through partnerships and training of trainers worked to enhance
scaling up of capacity building within a short period.
The comprehensive capacity building program in care and support contributed to the development
of PLWHA networks that constituted a platform for PLWHAs to effectively engage with other
stakeholders in the national response.




                                                 - 37 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Most development partners (DP) supporting HIV/AIDS in Ghana (UN system and bilaterals) felt
that the GARFUND was solely a Bank project that isolated the GAC from most of them, except
DfID and USAID at the early stages of implementation. USAID contributed to the multilateral
collaboration with the GOG aimed at securing government commitment and provided support to
equip GAC Secretariat's premises. DFID financed technical assistance to help line ministries
develop their action plans for HIV/AIDS before credit effectiveness and assisted in the expansion
of the District Response Initiatives to enable more districts to access funds at project start-up.

Several DPs also think that the focus of the project was too much towards awareness raising, and
that it did not built on the important gains of the HIV/AIDS response in Ghana that had been led
by NACP since 1986. While they agreed with the key lessons learnt described in the ICR, their
main recommendation for implementation of the M-SHAP funding scheme is a more inclusive
supervision of the Bank that should effectively participate in the joint reviews that will be
conducted through the newly created Partnership Forum chaired by the GAC.

DFID acted as a financing partner to the GAC leveraging GARFUND resources through the
provision of institutional, technical and administrative resources for initiating and sustaining
GARFUND activities. It aimed at strengthening GAC's leadership role and empowering its
Secretariat to respond quickly to management of grant disbursement and work towards common
donor arrangements. DFID's support has also helped to build a robust national HIV/AIDS
surveillance system; ensure an adequate and reliable supply of condoms in the public sector and
through social marketing efforts; support HIV/AIDS teacher training and curriculum development
in all public schools; and fund the first provision of anti-retroviral treatment in the public and
mission hospitals.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGO partners reported great benefits of the project including: (i) implementation of outreach
HIV awareness programs in remote and rural areas; (ii) some indication of behavior change
among young people who report abstinence from early sex and greater condom use; (iii) reduction
of stigma resulting in the fact that more and more PLWHAs are reaching out to populations to
share their experience; and; (iv) empowerment of women who are becoming more vocal about
partner's irresponsible behavior.

Despite these achievements, some challenges were noted in the processes of project approval,
funds disbursement, capacity and commitment of regional and district M&E focal persons, and
accountability of NGOs to beneficiaries.

10. Additional Information

Background

(i)The epidemic

The first official AIDS cases in Ghana were reported in 1986 and associated mainly with women



                                                 - 38 -

who had traveled abroad. By December 1999, 37, 298 cases had been reported. At project
inception, the national prevalence rate for HIV had increased from an estimated 2.6% in 1994, to
4.6% in 1998. Prevalence among STD patients was 17%, while for blood donors it was 4%.
There were also regional variations with the northern sector having the lowest rate of 1.2%.

The primary mode of transmission of HIV in Ghana is heterosexual, accounting for about 80% of
all cases. Vertical transmission accounts for 15%, and transmission through blood and blood
products accounts for another 5%.

Most of the people infected with HIV are young and in their most productive years. Peak ages for
reported age cases are 25-29 for females, and 30-34 for males, with the male to female ratio
decreasing form 4:1 in 1996, to 2:1 in 1998. Nearly 90% of all cases occurred among adults aged
between 15-49 and no longer predominantly repatriated AIDS cases.

In 1994, AIDS accounted for 3.5% of all adult deaths in the country was projected to rise to 18%
by 2004, and 33% by 2014. The estimated number of AIDS orphans was expected to rise from
126,000 to 250, 000 by 2004. The dependency ratio of 1.9% is also expected to rise.

(ii)The project

The Ghana AIDS Response Fund (GARFUND) project was designed to finance the scaling up of
implementation of a multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS epidemic. Before the implementation of
GARFUND, the national response to the AIDS focused primarily on health sector interventions.
Clinical response focused on prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, and promotion of safe
blood supply and clinics for commercial sex workers. Community response in the form of support
for home-based care and support for families affected by AIDS, was almost non-existent.
Virtually no programs or activities existed to protect the rights of People Living With HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) and their families as well as the rights of the civil society.

The Government of Ghana (GOG) in recognition of the inadequacies of the national response to
AIDS requested, in 1999, The World Bank for support in the financing of a fund to complement
the Ministry of Health's efforts to fight the epidemic. The fund was intended to finance activities,
which did not fall within the MOH's mandate. Subsequently, the GOG and the World Bank
agreed that the Bank would transfer into a special AIDS fund, portions of any World Bank credits
that would otherwise be canceled. The fund is the Ghana HIV/AIDS response fund.- GARFUND.
The project was approved by the Board on December 28, 2000, signed on November, 2001, and
became effective on May 8, 2002.




                                                - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Project             Indicator                     Baseline             End of project      Comments
development                                       Appraisal
Objective (PDO)                                   estimate
Intensify                                                         Actual (source, year)\   Target
multisectoral
activities designed
to   combat     the
spread    of   HIV
infection:
                    Maintain prevalence of HIV 3.8%(2002,         2.7%    (2005   Sentinel Below 6% Satisfactory.
                    among Pregnant women          Sentinel        Surveillance Survey)      HIV prevalence well below
                                                  Surveillance
                                                  Survey)                                  target.
                   Reduce the prevalence of 15%              for 24% for roamers           75% Not rated. End of project
                   HIV       infections    among roamers                                   figure not known pending
                   commercial sex workers in                     39% for seaters           completion of an ongoing survey
                   Kumasi                        54% for seaters                           in June 2006.
                                                                 (WAPCAS, 2002)
                                                 (WAPCAS,
                                                 2002)
                   Increase the proportion of 60%                N/A                       75% Not rated. BSS is currently
                   men and women who have                                                 being conducted and the results
                   reduced the number of sexual                                           will be available in September
                   partners    in   response  to                                          2006.
                   perceived risk
                   Increase the median age at 17 years           18.3 for females and 20.2 18 years Satisfactory. Source:
                   first intercourse                             for males.                2003 GDHS. Next GDHS to be
                                                                                           conducted in 2008.
                   Increase the proportion of    15%             45%                       30% Satisfactory. Source: 2003
                   men in a union using                                                    GDHS. Next GDHS to be
                   condoms during their last                                               conducted in 2008.
                   intercourse
                   Increase the proportion of    6%              35%                       20% Satisfactory. Source: 2003
                   women in a union using                                                 GDHS. Next GDHS to be
                   condoms during their last                                              conducted in 2008.
                   intercourse.
                   Increase the percentage of    40% of males          86% of males        75% of males 50% of females
                   males/females who know                                                  Highly Satisfactory. Target
                   they can avoid HIV by using 22% of females         77% of females       exceeded. Source:2003 GDHS
                   condoms:
                   males(m)/females(f)
                   Increase the percentage of    60%                   95% of males        90%Satisfactory. Targets
                   males/females who know                                                  attained. Source:2003 GDHS
                   they can avoid HIV by                              90% of females
                   restricting to sex to one
                   uninfected partner
Overall                                                                                    Satisfactory




                                                         - 40 -

     Output Indicators               Baseline           Target       Actual/End               Comments
                                    Appraisal                         of Project
                                     Estimate
Increase the proportion of       0%              96% (2934/3026) of 20%            Highly satisfactory. Target
funds awarded to CBO                             institutions funded               exceeded.
submitted subprojects (through                   through window B
Windows B and C)                                 and C (NGOs and
                                                 CBOs)
Increase the proportion of       0%              100% in 2003        100%          Satisfactory. Target initially
districts that have prepared                     80% in 2004                       attained but dropped by 20% at
plans to address HIV/AIDS and                    80% in 2005                       end of project, because the
are implementing part of their                                                     number of districts increased
plans                                                                              from 110 to 138.
Increase the proportion of all   0% in project   30%                 45%           Satisfactory. Target exceeded
subprojects that develop IEC     sites,                                            for all calls
materials designed specifically Not available for
for rural population (in local   the country
dialects)
Percentage of first and second Not available     50%                 100% of       Moderately satisfactory. Target
cycle schools that are providing                                     7281 Junior   achieved for second cycle
HIV/AIDS education                                                   Secondary     schools. Figures for first cycle
                                                                     Schools       schools were unavailable.
Percentage of line ministries    0%              100%                              Satisfactory. Target achieved
that have trained trainers at the                                    100% for      At least one trainer trained in
district level on HIV/AIDS                                           districts.    every district.
Percentage of districts that     0%              30%                 35%           Highly Satisfactory. Target
have organized care of AIDS                                                        exceeded and districts carrying
orphans                                                                            out care for the OVCs
                                                                                   activities.
Percentage of districts that     0%              50%                 50%           Satisfactory. Target attained
have organized                                                                     and districts carrying out care
community-based care for                                                           for the PLWHAs activities.
PLWHAs
Percentage of districts that     0%              40%                 Not available Not rated. No information on
have established an adequate                                                       functional referral system
and functional referral system                                                     between home based care and
between home-based and                                                             institutional based care
institution-based care
Percentage of funds disbursed 0%                 30%                 1%            Unsatisfactory. Target not
by component 1 for affiliation                                                     achieved. There are no well
(umbrellas) that are able to                                                       organized umbrellas
manage smaller civil society                                                       associations
organizations or affiliates to
provide services
Increase by 10% every year,      0%              30%                 91% for the   Moderately satisfactory. No
the proportion of subprojects                                        1st call.     analyses were made for
that implemented effectively,                                                      subsequent calls(2nd, 3rd, and
meeting their stated objectives.                                                   4th)
Percentage of districts that     0%              100%                100%          Satisfactory. Target achieved.
regularly receive information                                                      Best practices information in
on "best practices" examples of                                                    all districts.
HIV/AIDS interventions.




                                                          - 41 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Component                     Appraisal Estimated (US$ Actual   Estimates (US$  Percentage of Appraisal
                              millions)                millions)
Prevention and care services
                             21.00                    21.63                    77.81%
Strengthening Public/Private                          1.37                     4.93%
institutions  for  HIV/AIDS2.40
Control (Capacity Building)

Knowledge Management         1.40                     0.46                     1.65%




Project    Management     and
Monitoring and evaluation    3.00                     1.42                     5.11%

Total Baseline cost          27.80                    0.00
Physical Contingencies       0.00                     0.00
Price Contingencies          0.00                     0.00
Total Project Cost           27.80                    24.90                    89.57%




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                       Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                  ICB             NCB                  2            N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                                   0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                                0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                           0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                           0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                           0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)
     Total                                 0.00             0.00           0.00                0.00        0.00
                                          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)




                                                        - 42 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.03)           (0.03)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.15)            (1.14)            (1.04)           (2.33)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.26)            (1.80)            (1.56)           (3.62)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (21.64)            (0.38)           (22.02)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.41)           (24.58)            (3.01)           (28.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Prevention and care           18.90         2.10         0.60       21.60         0.34       0.41       114.3     16.2     68.3
Strengthening of PPI           2.40         0.00         0.64        1.37         0.33       0.57       57.1      0.0      89.1
Knowledge Management           1.00         0.40         0.54        0.56         0.35       0.41       56.0      87.5     75.9
Project mangement              2.70         0.30         0.10        1.42         0.63       0.30       52.6     210.0    300.0




                                                          - 43 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not applicable




                                      - 44 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/27/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SR. COUNSEL (1);
                                             COUNSEL(1);
                                             LEAD FINANCIAL
                                             MANGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/22/2000              10     TASK TEAM LEADER (2);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SR. PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LANGUAGE PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision

              07/07/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              03/01/2002                7    TTL (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST       S               S
                                             (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             EDUCATION (1)
              06/07/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS STRAT. UNAIDS (1)
              11/08/2002                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR OPERATIONS OFFI




                                              - 45 -

                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1); TEAM
                ASSISTANT (1); M&E (1)
03/14/2003    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                SPECIAL (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1); HIV/IDS
                PROGRAMS (1)
10/17/2003    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                EDUCATION SPECIALIST(1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); M&E SPECIALIST (1); IEC
                SPECIALIST(1)
04/20/2004    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                HEALTH/HIV (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                EDUCATION (1); M&E
                SPECIALIST (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION
                CONSULTANT (1)
11/11/2004    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                ON HIV/AIDS (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                SPECIALIST (1)
04/16/05      6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
12/14/05      7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                ON HIV/AIDS (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SR. HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                SR. PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1) FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                (1)



                - 46 -

 ICR
               03/07/2006             6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            LEAD HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST(1);
                                            CONSULTANT;
                                            PROGRAM
                                            ASSISTANT(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            0.34                         784.20
  Appraisal/Negotiation                21.90                      51,982.28
  Supervision                          62.02                     146,098.71
  ICR                                   8.23                      17,826.19
  Total                                92.49                     216,691.38




                                            - 47 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-memoires

1.     Aide-memoire: final implementation support mission December 2005
2.     Aide-memoire: implementation support mission, February- March 2005
3.     Aide-memoire: implementation support mission September-October 2004
4.     Aide-memoire: implementation support mission October 2003
5.     Aide memoire : implementation support mission, March 2003
6.     Aide-memoire : GARFUND site vite, November 2002
7.     Aide-memoire : implementation support mission September 2002
8.     Aide-memoire : implementation support mission, May- June 2002
9.     Aide Memoire : GARFUND technical launch, February- March 2002

Reports
1.     BTOR- Mid-term review, March 2004
2.     BTOR- Supervision mission, October, 2003
3.     BTOR- Project site visit, November, 2002
4.     BTOR- Project launch workshop, February-March, 2002
5.     Project Appraisal Document, Ghana Aids Response Fund (GARFUND), December 8,
2000
6.     Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of The World bank Group for the Republic of Ghana,
June 29, 2000
7.     Ghana AIDS Response FUND (GARFUND)- Draft Operational Manual, September,
2000
8.     MAP interim Review Report
9.     National IEC/BCC Strategic Framework 2006-2010 report
10.    Mid-term Review Report on Ghana AIDS Response Project, March 2004
11.    Draft national Response to HIV and AIDS, Five-year Program of Work, 2006-2010
12.    Joint Review of Ghana's National HIV/AIDS Response, June 2004
13.    Project Appraisal Document, Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (M-SHARP), October
2005
14.    PRS/ISRs all series- 2002-2005
15.    Ghana Demographic and Health Survey 2003 (GDHS 2003), ORC Macro, September
2005
16.    An In Depth Analysis of HIV Prevalence in Ghana: Further Analysis of DHS Data, April
2005
17.    HIV/AIDS Surveillance Reports, NACP/MOH; 2002, 2003, 2004;
18.    HIV AIDS Sentinel Survey Report 2005, National AIDS/STI Conrol Programme, Ghana
Health Service, March 2006
19.    Ernst and Young Fiduciary Analysis of CSO activities (title to be confirmed).




                                            - 50 -

- 51 -

