Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21458-GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR19.6 MILLION (US$25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FORA
AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT (GARFUND)
DECEMBER 8, 2000
Human Development III
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/21/00)
Currency Unit = Cedis
Cedis 1.00 = US$0.0001474
US$1.00 = 6781.5
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACTafrica    AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           Community based Organization
CDF           Comprehensive Development Framework
CHAG          Christian Health Association of Ghana
CIDA          Canadian Intemational Development Agency
DA            District Assembly
DAC           District AIDS Committee
DANIDA        Danish Intemational Development Assistance
DHS           Demographic and Health Survey
DFID          Department for Intemational Development (UK, formerly ODA)
DHS           Demographic and Health Survey
DPP           Detailed Procurement Plan
DRI           District Response Initiative
FINMI         Financial Management Initiative
GAC           Ghana AIDS Commission
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GPP           Global Procurement Plan
GOG           Govemment of Ghana
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSPSP         Health Sector Program Support Project
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IEC           Information, Education, Communication
IPAA          Intemational Partnership Against AIDS in Africa
KAPB          Knowledge, Attitude, Practices and Behavior
MAP           Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
MDAs          Ministries, Departments, District Assemblies
MIS           Management Information System
MOH           Ministrv of Health
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTCT          Mother-To-Child Transmission
NACP          National AIDS/STD Control Program
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
OM            Operational Manual
PLWHA         People Living with HID/AIDS
PMTCT         Prevention of Mother-To-Child Transmission
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA            Special Account
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SOE           Statement of Expenses
STD           Sexually-Transmitted Diseases
UNAIDS        Joint United Nations Programme on HID/AIDS
UNDB          United Nations Development Business
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo (AFR)
Country Manager/Director:    Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:    Rosemary Bellew
Task Team LeaderTask Manager:   Sandra Rosenhouse



GHANA
AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT (GARFUND)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                       11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        I1
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                             13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             16
2. Financial                                                                            18
3. Technical                                                                            18
4. Institutional                                                                        18
5. Environmental                                                                        19
6. Social                                                                               19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       22
2. Critical risks                                                                       22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       24



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                               25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summarvkc,t f- :tiveness Analysis Summary                  34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Eaming Project Entities                            35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   49
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             48
MAP(S)
IBRD 26553



GHANA
AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: December 8, 2000                            Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse
Country Director: Peter C. Harrold                Sector Manager: Rosemary Bellew
Project ID: P071617                               Sector(s): MY - Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 25.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: %
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign -    Total
BORROWER                                                       1.80           0.00           1.80
IDA                                                           23.00           2.00         25.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              1.00           0.00           1.00
Total:                                                        25.80           2.00         27.80
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Responsible agency: GHANA AIDS COMMISSION
Address: Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare
P.O. Box CT 5169
Contact Person: Mr. Alhaji Muhammad Mumuni, Minister of Employment and Social Welfare
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
. FY  -     ;        ---2001  2002  2003  2004       2005
Annual    2.00        6.00       6.00       7.00      4.00
Cumulative    2.00       8.00      14.00      21.00     25.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCSPADFl, RP  Md 2X0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Garfund is to reduce the spread of HIV infection, and reduce thc impact of AIDS on
those infected and their families by financing interventions outside the MoH's mandate.
Project Purpose:
The main purpose of the Ghana AIDS Response Fund (Garfund) is to support the implementation of the
Government's effort to reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and reduce the impact on those already
infected and affected as articulated in the "Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana." The framework
enables the Government of Ghana (GoG) to implement a balanced, diversified multi-sector response,
engaging all relevant government sectors, non-governmental organizations and grassroots initiatives. To
date, the Ministry of Health (MoH), which is already receiving donor/IDA support through the Health
Sector Program Support Project (HSPSP, Cr. 2994-GH), has led the fight against HIV/AIDS. The MoH
Program of Work supported by the donor partnership supports AIDS prevention and care activities, some
of which is provided through other entities. However, its contribution to engage civil society in the fight
against AIDS has been insufficient. Thus, the GoG has requested access to IDA resources within the
framework of the first phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region
approved by the Board of Directors of the World Bank Group on September 12, 2000, to expand its
response. IDA resources would finance eligible activities conducted by civil society organizations
including NGOs, CBOs, trade and professional associations, associations of PLWHAs, Districts, among
others, or groups of these entities and line ministries (excluding the MoH) to complement the MoH's
ongoing program and in this way ensure a rapid multi-sector scaling up of activities in all regions of the
country and all administrative levels. Eligible activities include prevention, care and support activities for
those affected, prioritizing community-level responses. While the fund would initially be funded by IDA,
other development partners are expected to contribute.
Compliance with MAP Eligibility Criteria:
Ghana satisfies the four MAP eligibility criteria:
(a) satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS: Garfund is the product of a series of
government sponsored actions involving all key line ministries, stakeholders and the donor partnership,
under the guidance of UNAIDS. Among the GoG's efforts are the analysis of Ghana's response to the
epidemic, and a draft Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana. The contents of the project itself
include the needs and strategies identified in the documents prepared by the GoG, the comments of the
GAC, and the views of stakeholders consulted. Thus, the project design is based on a broad national
consensus of what needs to be done to combat HIV/AIDS.
(b) the existence of a high-level coordinating body with broad representation from all sectors: The Ghana
AIDS Commission has been established in the Presidency, including all key line ministries, representatives
from various religious organizations, labor unions, students and women's groups as well as networks of
NGOs working with HIV/AIDS and representatives of associations of PLWHAs.
(c) agreement to appropriate implementation arrangements to finance activities directly in communities
The project will finance activities in communities directly by financing proposals submitted by civil society
-2 -



organizations at the local level, and by financing District level initiatives. In order to expand access to
funds to the local level more rapidly, larger civil society organizations (affiliations) will be encouraged to
manage subcontracts to several communities. The Government has also agreed to contract out subproject
supervision, project evaluation, training, and knowledge management in order to be more agile and
accelerate implementation.
(d) agreement tofiund multiple implementation entities, specially community-based and
non-governmental institutions: Implementation of activities will be conducted by line ministries other than
the MoH, and by the NGO/CBO sector, and a growing number of district governments. The bulk of
activities are to be conducted by NGOs and civil society organizations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
It may be difficult to detect changes in impact indicators during the four years of implementation of
Garfund. Thus, intermediate outcome measures are also included. The following indicators illustrate the
three groups of core variables that will be employed to monitor the performance of the fund. A more
extensive list of indicators is included in the logical framework (see Annex 1)
A. Output Indicators
Increase the proportion of funds awarded to CBO submitted subprojects (through windows B and C) to 20% of all subproject
funding by 2005
Increase the proportion of all subprojects that develop IEC materials designed specifically for rural populations (in local
dialects) to 30% by 2005
By 2005, 50% of all 1 st and 2nd cycle schools are providing HIV/AIDS education.
By 2005, all line ministries (except MoH) have trained trainers at the district level on IV/AIDS.
Increase by 50% the number of districts that provide community-based care for PLWHA.
R Process Indicators
By 2005, an adequate referral system between home-based and institution-based care has been established in 40% of Districts.
Increase to 100 the number of Districts that have prepared strategic plans to confront IIV/AIDS by 2005.
Increase by 10% annually the proportion of subprojects that are meeting their stated objectives in a satisfactory manner.
Increase the proportion of existing affiliations (umbrellas) that are able to manage smaller civil society organizations to provide
services by 30% by 2005.
All Districts receive regular (quarterly) "best practice" informational materials from the Project.
C. Impact /Outcome Indicators
Increase the proportion of women in a union using condoms during their last intecourse from 6% to 20% by 2005.
Increase the proportion of men in a union using condoms during their last intercourse from 15% to 30% by 2005.
- 3 -



Increase the proportion of men and women who have reduced the number of sexual partners in response to perceived risk from
60% to 80% by 2005.
Increase the proportion of PLWHA that are receiving home or community based care among those PLWHA that have sought
medical treatment through the MoH network to 30% by the year 2005.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: 20185-GH           Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 2000
The Ghana CAS was prepared on the basis of CDF principles, and thus also addresses the activities of
other donors in its response to Ghana's development agenda. The current CAS's overriding goal is to
eliminate hard core poverty. The strategy outlined by the Government specifically seeks to (i) reduce
poverty in rural and urban areas, (ii) strengthen the poor's income generating capacity, (iii) reduce gender
and regional disparities, and (iv) improve the health, education and productivity of the population. The
World Bank Group is supporting the proposed business strategy by helping the Govemment: (i) raise the
growth rate of the economy; (ii) redefine the role of the State; and (iii) implement their strategy more
effectively on the ground. As part of its support to redefine the role of the State so that it can efficiently
provide public goods and services and ensure an equitable distribution of benefits, the CAS specifically
identifies the need to continue to provide sector-wide support to the health sector in Ghana, and the urgent
need to address the spread of HIV/AIDS through a multi-sector approach before it becomes a more
generalized epidemic. This proposed project specifically addresses the need to control the spread of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic through a multi-sector strategy. Garfund is expected to have a direct effect in
increasing condom use amongst men and women to reduce the spread of HIV, a variable which will be
measured as part of the CAS performance indicators.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Dimensions of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic in Ghana
It is estimated that about 4.6 percent (1999 NACP) of the adult population of Ghana is infected with HIV.
At least 400,000 Ghanaians are estimated to be living with HIV. Prevalence almost doubled between 1994
and 1998. At current rates of infection, it is estimated that 1.2 million Ghanaians will be infected by the
year 2005. Prevalence rates are highest among commercial sex workers, with rates as high as 82 percent in
Kumasi in the Ashanti region. The actual number of AIDS cases is difficult to estimate given the strong
stigma associated with the disease and the culture of silence it imposes. While the epidemic has not reached
the crisis dimension evident in other African countries, a failure to act now could have serious
consequences as HIV prevalence rate has been known to accelerate rapidly once it reaches 5 percent of the
population. Without concerted intensified action to reduce its spread now, Ghana's recent benefits from
improved macroeconomic performance will be diminished. Even now, at current levels of infection,
HIV/AIDS has had a serious impact on families and communities, with concomitant repercussions on the
wider economy.
The primary mode of transmission of HIV in Ghana is heterosexual, accounting for 80 percent of the cases.
Vertical transmission accounts for 15 percent and transmission through blood and blood products accounts
for another 5 percent of cases. While the male to female ratio was 4:1 in 1996, the gap closed considerably
to 2:1 in 1998.
-4 -



Most of the people infected with HIV are young. Peak ages for reported AIDS cases are 25-29 for females,
and 30-34 for males. Ninety percent of all reported AIDS cases occur to adults aged 20-49, the most
economically productive years of life. This represents economic losses in terms of productive labor days
lost due to increased absenteeism and reduction of the labor force, eroding the social and economic
development accomplished in recent years. Added to this is the increased burden on the Ministry of Health
budget and the strain on families and communities resulting from expenditures incurred in taking care of
the ill and the increasing number of orphans left behind. There are an estimated 126,000 orphans in Ghana,
and the figure is estimated to increase to over 250,000 by 2004.
The context and manner in which HIV infection occurs and the long delay in the onset of full blown AIDS
make it a complex illness to address. The fact that HIV/AIDS is sexually transmitted makes it difficult to
address modes of prevention publicly. And, because onset of visible symptoms is so delayed, individuals
are often unaware they are infected, infecting others unintentionally. Moreover, its invisibility makes the
community unaware of the extent of the problem. The considerable stigma associated with the disease only
serves to complicate matters as it forces many people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) to remain silent
and hidden from the community and sometimes their own family and to not seek care when needed. The
stigma imposes extreme hardship on those infected as they lack economic and social support. Women are
particularly vulnerable as a result of their position in society (both economic and cultural), the culture of
silence surrounding the disease making it impossible for women to negotiate safer sex, their desire to bear
children, and limited information on sexuality and disease. The fact that 3 percent of the reported AIDS
cases among females are to girls aged 15-19 only serves to underscore this point. Women are also more
affected in that the burden of caring for the sick generally falls on them.
The Response to the Epidemic to Date
As has been clearly demonstrated by some countries in Africa and in other parts of the world, it is possible
to prevent an explosive growth in the HIV/AIDS epidemic and limit its adverse impact. While the national
response to the epidemic has improved, the Government recognizes that it is still inadequate, as it is too
focused on health sector interventions and insufficiently funded. The response to date has been primarily
the responsibility of the Ministry of Health (MoH).
The MoH is currently receiving support through the Health Sector Program Support Project
(Cr. 2994 -GH) which became effective on June 18, 1998. The total program cost is estimated at $824
million. The program is co-financed by the GoG and partners including DFID, DANIDA, the Nordic Fund,
the Netherlands, the European Community and IDA, with a credit of US$35 million equivalent. Additional
earmarked funds are available from USAID and CIDA. The Credit supports the Ministry of Health's
sector-wide reform program, financing a time-slice of the combined Govemment and extemal assistance
budgets for developmental and operational activities.
The Plan of Work (POW) of the Ministry of Health identifies HIV/AIDS as one of the key/priority
services, along with immunization, management of malaria, TB, maternal and reproductive health, and the
eradication of the Guinea Worm. While the health sector response to the epidemic needs to be strengthened,
it has made some notable advances. Training for syndromic management of STDs has been carried out
widely and effectively, all blood for transfusion is being screened, providers are improving infection
prevention practices including use of clean needles and sterilization practices and the sentinel surveillance
system is functioning well. However, there are some weaknesses that need to be addressed. With respect to
the MoH's clinical response, STD management, and clinical care for PLWHA, need to be strengthened,
access to TB drugs improved, and the process of implementing activities to prevent mother-to-child
transmission (MTCT) accelerated. On the prevention side, Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT)
- 5 -



services must be expanded, including adequate supply of HIV diagnostic tests. IEC materials need to be
more plentiful and accessible, and efforts on peer and group counseling should be strengthened. Condom
use should be more strongly promoted. As for home-based care and social support for PLWHA, efforts
conducted primarily by the Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG) need to be expanded. It is
important that the MoH scale up its current response in order to ensure it can address demand for
prevention and care generated by a multi-sector effort.
Government Strategy
National awareness of the spread of HIV/AIDS dates back to the mid-eighties when the GoG established
the National Technical Committee on AIDS. Soon after, the National AIDS/STD Control Program
(NACP) was established within the MoH to coordinate the national response to the epidemic. However, its
impact has been limited. Part of the reason is that prevention works primarily through behavior change, and
the NACP/MoH has focused more on medical/clinical aspects and less on IEC and community initiatives.
An October 1999 mission of the International Partnership against HIV/AIDS in Africa noted the need for a
multi-sector approach to increase the effectiveness of the GoG's response. The GoG established a
multi-sector national commission to coordinate all HIV/AIDS activities in the country. It also assessed the
adequacy of its response to the epidemic to date and based on the results, developed a National Framework
for HWV/AIDS in Ghana. The objectives of the Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana (Sept, 2000
draft) are to:
(a) reduce new HIV infections by 30 percent by 2005;
(b) improve service delivery and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on individuals and families;
(c) create an enabling environment for the implementation of the strategic framework; and,
(d) establish a multi-sector and multi-disciplinary institutional framework for the coordination and
implementation of HIV/AIDS programs in Ghana.
The guiding principles for this effort include:
(a) the adoption of a multi-sector public and private partnership approach;
(b) respect for fundamental human rights and appropriate cultural norms and practices;
(c) access to appropriate information and comprehensive basic services;
(d) decentralized implementation, community participation and individual responsibility in all HIV/AIDS
programs; and,
(e) mobilization of adequate financial and human resources to implement the framework.
This project would provide support in the financing of a fund to assist in the expansion of the GoG's
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic by financing eligible activities conducted by civil society organizations
including NGOs, CBOs, trade and professional associations, associations of PLWHAs, and line ministries
(excluding the MoH) to complement the MoH's ongoing program, through a rapid multi-sector scaling up
of activities nationwide. While the fund would initially be funded by IDA, other development partners are
expected to contribute. The fund will implement the part of the National Strategic Framework for
HIV/AIDS that is not being implemented by the MoH.
Partnership. Garfund was born out of a series of consultations between the GoG and the donor
partnership. UJNAIDS has been the main force behind the multilateral collaboration with the GoG, and has
been instrumental in securing government commitment. Working with the HIV/AIDS thematic group,
UNAIDS has guided the work of the inter-ministerial task force that was set up to assess the HIV/AIDS
situation in Ghana and define a framework to confront the epidemic. The donor partnership is already
financing a number of activities to combat HIV/AIDS in Ghana (refer to section D) and is currently
- 6 -



assessing how best to ensure the success of Garfund. DFID has already committed to finance technical
assistance to help line ministries develop their action plans for HIV/AIDS well before effectiveness, as well
as to assist in the expansion of the District Response Initiative to enable more districts to access funds at
project start-up. USAID will support the equipping of the Secretariat's premises.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the complex nature of HIV/AIDS, the context in which it is spread, and the rapid growth of the
epidemic, the response needs to be broad-based, including all relevant levels and sectors of govemment and
society, rapid and flexible. While a freestanding project to fund HIV/AIDS initiatives from all sectors
including health was initially considered, it was discarded as it would seriously undermine the spirit of the
ongoing Health Sector Program Support Project and the partnership arrangements in the health sector.
Recognizing the emergency nature of the problem, and the need for flexibility. Garfund will be managed as
a fund. To ensure a broad-based response the fund will finance eligible activities proposed and conducted
by civil society organization;, districts and line ministries (excluding the MoH) to complement the MoH's
ongoing efforts to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS. Community-based responses will be prioritized.
Issues to be addressed by Garfund comprise two general groups: institutional/logistic issues, and
programmatic issues. On the institutional aspects, three key issues being addressed are: the difficulty of
coordinating multiple executors to ensure synergy; low implementation capacity in some line ministries,
districts and smaller civil society organizations; and, ensuring the active participation of grassroots
organizations and districts. On the programmatic side, two issues need to be addressed: increasing
awareness of personal risk and encouraging adoption of safe practices in light of the invisibility and culture
of silence, and the provision of care and support to PLWHA and their families in light of scarce resources
and the stigma that prevails.
Coordination of a Balanced Multi-sector National Response: Ensuring an effective, balanced, and truly
multi-sectoral approach entails close coordination between the health sector and other sectors participating
in the national initiative. Duplication of efforts needs to be avoided and gaps in coverage need to be
minimized. Inputs by all relevant sectors need to be adequate and timely both in terms of their involvement
in the strategic coordination of the national response, as well as in the implementation of their individual
sector commitments. Adequate timing of interventions is key to ensure synergy and a maximized response.
The GoG has already taken a number of steps in this direction: (a) it has developed a Strategic Framework
for HIV/AIDS in Ghana based on a situation analysis and a response analysis conducted by multi-sector
teams employing a participatory approach, with constant interaction with HIV/AIDS Oversight Committee
set up by the GoG; and (b) it has established the Ghana HIV/AIDS Commission in the Presidency which
includes high level representation of all key sectors and an executive arm to implement the Strategic
Framework.
However, a solid and balanced multi-sector response also requires a stronger and more focused response
from the health sector to ensure the necessary synergy will be generated. IDA will continue to support the
MoH's efforts to improve access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatrnent of opportunistic infections,
provide better quality of care and improve the overall efficiency of its efforts. Assurances will be obtained
from the MoH that it will give greater priority to HIV/AIDS in its annual POW and that it will increase its
budget allocation to HIV/AIDS interventions. An action plan of the activities to be scaled up will be
prepared and discussed as part of the discussion of next year's POW. Areas where the MoH needs to
improve its response have been identified in the "Response Analysis". They include increasing access to
voluntary counseling and testing services (VCT) including in terms of physical availability and cost,
defining a policy on prevention of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) and implementing it, increasing
- 7 -



access to condoms, and increasing coverage of treatment of opportunistic infections and other clinical needs
of PLWHIAs.
Low Implementation Capacity of Executors. Implementation capacity is uneven across line ministries, and
the majority have not worked on WHV/AIDS in the past. In the case of small NGOs, CBOs and districts,
implementation capacity can be even lower. Garfund would provide, when needed, technical assistance and
training support on basic project management, techniques to improve IEC effectiveness (including
interpersonal communication skills) and induce behavior change, approaches to home-based care, and basic
knowledge on HIV/AIDS prevention and care, among others.
Umbrellas and large civil society organizations with solid implementation capacity will be able to work
with groups of small NGOs, CBOs and districts with lower capacity which will, in the process of
subproject execution, slowly strengthen their capacity. Working with group subprojects will also allow for
a more rapid response to HIV/AIDS.
Ensuring active participation of grassroots organizations, districts, and civil society. A broad-based
response implies action on every front, particularly at the grass-roots level where links with the community
are strong. Their participation is crucial as they can best address delicate, taboo subjects and can work with
farnily members in the community to reduce the stigma and the barriers to "coming out" about HIV/AIDS
status. Civil society organizations also have the added benefit of being more flexible and innovative in their
approaches to the epidemic. Garfund will ensure participation of the smaller organizations by actively
seeking proposals from them and providing technical support in their preparation. A communications
campaign describing the purpose of Garfund, how to access financing and what may be financed will be
implemented early on and before each funding cycle. More targeted carnpaigns will be carried out to reach
CBOs in specific areas. To encourage participation, the smaller groups would get some seed funds to
initiate some activities which could be expanded through a subsequent more formal proposal at a later date.
Working through umbrella organizations (affiliation networks), Garfund will facilitate access to
associations that may be otherwise difficult to reach.
Encouraging Adoption of Safe Practices. The culture of silence and the fact that the onset of AIDS takes
place many years after infection contribute to the general population's lack of awareness of the extent of the
epidemic and the risks they, as individuals, actually face. Without the awareness of personal risk of
infection, behavior change will be difficult. While awareness of AIDS is universal in Ghana, knowledge on
how to avoid HIV/AIDS is not. Moreover, over half of all men and women (DHS, 1998) did not perceive
any risk of getting AIDS, with women perceiving themselves to be at lower risk than men. And, of those
perceiving high risk, 20 percent did not modify their sexual behavior. Increasing awareness of personal
risk and existing prevalence will both, encourage adoption of safe practices, and reduce the stigma attached
to the disease. Garfund would support IEC initiatives employing some mass media, but focused primarily
on interpersonal communication through peers, small groups or other one-on-one encounters, which tend to
be more effective in transmitting sensitive messages. Messages would include the promotion of VCT and
prevention of MTCT, and the need to seek diagnosis and treatment of STDs. This would complement the
MoH's strengthening of its VCT capability. Garfund would also support advocacy in various contexts to
ensure the message is disseminated. Work with the Ministry of Education would provide another venue to
raise awareness and inform youth. Work with the Ministry of Food and Agriculture would work with
extension workers to reach farmers. Condom promotion and distribution would also be supported.
Provision of care and support to PLWHA and theirfamilies: The stigma attached to the disease and the
insufficient knowledge about how AIDS can be prevented pose unnecessary hardship for PLWHAs and
their families. They represent important barriers to seeking care, and the abandonment by their families and
- 8 -



loss of employment can leave individuals destitute and without any psychological and social support.
Illness and death leave many children orphaned in practical and real terms. Garfund will encourage IEC
activities to dispel misconceptions about HIV/AIDS, and educate family members and the community
about how to care for PLWHAs in their own homes or community hospices. It will support initiatives to
mobilize the community to provide social support and the creation of income generation initiatives for
PLWHA and their families. Garfund will also provide support to community initiatives to care for
orphans, and provide counseling for PLWHA and their families in their homes. Home care, including some
nursing services would also be covered. Garfund would also support training tmditional healers and
traditional birth attendants to teach them how to protect themselves and their clients, and how to ensure
their current practices are safe. Garfund will also finance initiatives designed to protect PLWHAs rights,
including the definition of policies against discrimination in the work place and with regard to access to
care.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Indicatie     ,    .    a  __... % Of
.-- . ==Compon .. .         Secfor       'C          % of    inancg   B-nk-
=.__________                  _            =          . US$M)<  Total    (US$M)... i,y.fi fitacin9
Prevention and Care Services       AIDS, STDs          21.00       75.5     18.90      75.6
Strengthening Public/Private       AIDS, STDs           2.40        8.6      2.40       9.6
institutions for HIV/AIDS Control
Knowledge Management               AIDS, STDs           1.40        5.0      1.00       4.0
Project Management (Incl. M&E)     AIDS, STDs           3.00       10.8      2.70      10.8
Total Project Costs                   27.80      100.0      25.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    27.80      100.0     25.00      100.0
The Project, Garfund, would finance a US$25.0 million, 4-year component of the Government's Strategic
Framework for AIDS, and would cover all activities not within the MoH's mandate (refer to annexes 5 and
6 for procurement and disbursement, and financial management). Garfund's objective is to intensify
multi-sector activities designed to combat the spread of -HV/AIDS and to reduce its impact on those
already affected. To achieve its objective, the project includes support for the following activities:
Prevention and Care Services by financing governmental (excluding health) and civil society7 entities to
provide a broad spectrum of preventive and care activities at national, regional and local levels. Seventy
percent of funding will be allocated to these activities out of which approximately 75%, or US$15.0
million, will be earmarked for non-governmental and community-based initiatives. The size of any single
activity financed under the fund is not expected to be large (generally less than US$100,000). Prevention
activities are designed to reduce high risk behavior and exposure to risk, and to reduce the vulnerability of
those who are unaware of their risk by raising their awareness, and "de-stigmatizing" the disease so as to
increase access to prevention and care. For families affected by HIV/AIDS, Garfund would reduce their
vulnerability by financing services to protect their rights, income generation activities, care for orphans and
home-based care for the ill.
-9-



Access to funds for the financing of proposals would be available through three windows, each with
slightly different access rules. The first group (Group A) includes proposals from line ministries, and will
finance activities for internal and external clients. The second group (Group B) includes financing for
proposals from civil society organizations including NGOs, CBOs, trade and professional associations,
associations of PLWHAs, Districts, among others, or groups of these entities, including affiliation
networks (umbrella organizations). The third group (Group C) would provide seed money for activities
conducted by very small CBOs and associations. not to exceed $2500 up front to engage in activities
defined in a letter of irtent.
Strengthening Public/Private institutions for HIV/AIDS Control and Care Giving by supporting
training and technical assistance for institutions on technical and practical aspects of working with
HIV/AIDS, and when required, some training on community participation and project management. Only
entities implementing subprojects are eligible for training. The training will be subcontracted to NGOs and
line ministries with expertise on the issue in question. Financing of this component will strengthen the
impact of activities financed under Component 1.
Knowledge Management by providing support for the establishment of a mechanism/strategy to collect,
organize and disseminate up to date information on AIDS prevention and care, best practices of existing
projects, research results, and any reports that would be useful to implementing entities. It would also
finance activities to bring together subproject representatives to share experiences with subprojects with
similar orientations. Financing of this component will strengthen the impact of activities financed under
Component 1.
Project Management. See Annex 5 for details. Garfund will also have a Monitoring and Evaluation
subcomponent that will assess the progress attained in the fight against AIDS nationwide on the basis of the
targets defined in the Strategic Framework and will monitor the advance of Garfund financed activities.
(Refer to annex 4 for details).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Ghana AIDS Response Fund (Garfund) is a multi-sector operation designed to support the implementation
of the Government's effort to reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and reduce the impact on those
already infected and affected as articulated in the "Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana". The
operation does not intend to address long-term sector and institutional reforms within any one sector, nor to
include conditions linked to macroeconomic or sector policies. However, Garfund will strengthen several
key policy and institutional changes, i.e. it will:
(a) establish the National HIV/AIDS Program coordination, under the Ghana AIDS Commission under the
office of the President, making it more independent of the Ministry of Health, and giving other sectors,
including civil society, a greater role. The institutional arrangement should strengthen the GoG's capacity
to implement a balanced. diversified multi-sector response, engaging all relevant government sectors.
non-governmental organizations and grassroots initiatives;
(b) mainstream HIV/AIDS control into the action plan of everv of Government agency, at National and
District levels;
(c) strengthen the public private partnership in HIV/AIDS control; and
(d) empower communities to be key players in HIV/AIDS control.
- 10-



3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project is expected to:
(a) reduce the risk of contracting HIV in both the population at large and vulnerable and high-risk groups
by seeking to induce behavior change through the personalization of risk and increased access to
information (including both HIV and STD infections), and the provision of condoms. The benefit to
women will be greater, given their greater lack of information on HIV/AIDS and their inability to negotiate
safer sex in a context of the culture of silence that prevails and traditional role expectations;
(b) reduce rates of mother to child transmission by providing information on its prevention and alternatives
to breast feeding
(c) improve the quality of life for those living with AIDS by providing care and support in the community,
working with the community to reduce stigma, and ensuring a closer link with the health sector;
(d) provide support to families affected by AIDS by providing access to income generating activities,
support for orphans, among others;
(e) improve the ability of civil society, including communities, NGOs, trade and professional organizations,
etc. to respond to the epidemic and strengthen prevention efforts;
(f) mainstream HIV/AIDS into line ministry work programs to ensure long term, sustainable change, and,
(g) reduce future costs of care, treatment, and orphan care.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements: Garfund is expected to be implemented within a four-year period. The
proposed project would be placed under the authority of theGhana AIDS Commission (GAC) which would
be in charge of the definition of broad priorities for action, the selection of eligible proposals (through a
technical subcommittee), and the monitoring of the performance of the project. The Secretariat of the GAC
would implement the GAC's decisions. The GAC includes high level representatives of all line Ministries
that can play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS, religious, occupational, NGO affiliations, women's and
student organizations and other interest groups. It is located in the Presidency under the chairmanship of
the President. The vice-chairmanship of the GAC will rotate every year. The current vice-chair is the
Minister of Employment and Social Welfare.
The Secretariat of the GAC would be responsible for the financial and administrative aspects of Garfund,
as specified in a detailed operational manual. It would contract the necessary technical support to guide
executing entities support in preparing proposals and implementing subprojects. The Secretariat would
provide entities awarded contracts under Garfund with basic training on financial management and
procurement procedures in order to ensure compliance with Bank procedures. It would prepare and
administer contracts to selected executing entities and monitor their technical and financial performance.
The Secretariat would provide financial and technical reports on a quarterly basis to the GAC, and prepare
annual reports for financing agencies. The Secretariat would also ensure annual audits are carried out in
accordance with agreements with IDA and ensure the use of funds follows procedures agreed upon with
IDA as specified in the Credit Agreement and the operational manual.
- 11 -



To be responsive and agile, it is important that the staff be composed of highly qualified and politically
neutral professionals. For the purposes of administration of the project, the Secretariat would need a
coordinator, a finance and administration division with 34 key staff including procurement capacity, and a
technical division including 4-5 full-time specialists, and support staff, to provide technical guidance in the
day-to-day issues of implementation, monitor technical aspects of the project, identify technical assistance
needed to ensure adequate support to subprojects, oversee the knowledge management activities, keep the
GAC informed about key technical issues that arise during implementation, and be responsible for the
overall monitoring and evaluation of the project. With regards to the finance and administration division, it
is expected that the financial component will be larger than the procurement aspects as most procurement
will be some limited goods, and many contracts for services and technical assistance. the majority of which
are expected to be small.
Implementation Arrangements: Garfund will employ a fund mechanism to finance subprojects executed
by a wide range of organizations at the national, regional and local levels. The GAC will select atechnical
subcommittee to review and select subproject proposals on a semiannual basis and to submit its
recommendations to the GAC for their final endorsement. The membership of the subcommittee will be
public and will rotate on an annual basis. The Secretariat would call for proposals, receive and assess
them for completeness, and, once selected by the technical subcommittee with the endorsement of the GAC,
would process and finance the contracts. In the case of line ministries, they would submit proposals based
on previously prepared action plans to address HIUV/AIDS. To access funds, line ministries will have to
have had defined a line item for HIV/AIDS in their budget and contribute their own matching funds. To
ensure subprojects address local needs and minimize duplication, all implementing entities (NGOs, civil
society, CBOs) need to secure the endorsement of the Districts they are working in.
To streamline project selection and to ensure local needs are addressed, proposals in Group C will be
reviewed and selected by District authorities (eventually the District AIDS committees once they are
established) who will submit their recommendations to the Secretariat. When the Secretariat makes the call
for proposals it will inform Districts approximately how much they may have available to finance
subprojects. The indicative amount would be population-based, and would not be disbursed unless letters
of intent/proposals have been submitted. Districts would submit their recommendations for funding to the
Secretariat who would issue the necessary contracts. As implementation proceeds and the capacity of
districts is ascertained, the process could be further decentralized by having the Secretariat transfer the
total amount of funding for the proposals submitted to each District Assembly to disburse and supervise.
Given that project activities need to be demand-driven, the funding amounts available to each District are
only indicative. Should some Districts be submitting an insufficient amount of proposals, the Secretariat
would reallocate the extra funds to other Districts. If the Secretariat is overwhelmed with the number of
contracts it needs to process, altemative arrangements will be sought. To ensure transparency and
encourage accountability, the names of entities or associations receiving awards and the amount of the
award would be listed in a local paper of broad circulation. The members of the technical subcommittee
will be technically qualified to evaluate subproject proposals. They will meet twice a year for a period of
3-5 days to assess proposals. Garfund will be managed from Accra, and, with the exception of Group C
proposals, all subproject funding decisions will take place centrally by the GAC.
Garfund will conduct a wide communications campaign to inform potential implementing entities about the
nature of the fund, what it can finance and how to apply for funding. A specific campaign will be
conducted prior to each call for proposals, with specific messages targeting civil society organizations in
areas and or populations that need to be targeted.
- 12-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three project design altematives were considered and rejected.
A stand-alone HlV/AIDS Prevention and Care project, incorporating all sectors including health, was
initially considered. However, it was thought that financing health expenditures in parallel to the HSPSP
would go against the spirit of the HSPSP and undermine its effectiveness. The HSPSP finances a time
slice of the combined GoG and extemal assistance budget for developmental and operational activities of
the MoH.
Consideration was also given to topping up the MoH's budget so that they could finance additional
activities and subcontract NGOs to conduct them. However, the MoH is already working at full capacity
and would be unable to adequately expand its activities to include actors outside the MoH. Moreover, they
would be unable to finance activities in other line ministries.
A structured project with clearly defined actors and activities, and plans of action for each one was
considered but rejected in favor of a fund financing mechanism. A fund structure is more flexible, allowing
for a more rapid response and is open to more innovative proposals as the content of the activities is not
previously defined except generally. Fuithennore, a fund-like approach allows for modifications in funding
priorities, the timing of financing, and the amounts to be supported.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).completed, ongoing and planned
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health sector-wide support        Ghana Health Sector Program       S            HS
Support Project
AIDS and STD control              Brazil AIDS/STD                   S             S
Brazil Second AIDS/STD            S             S
Control Project
Argentina AIDS/STD                S            U
Control Project
Kenya Decentralized
STD/AIDS and Reproductive
Health Project
(Approve but not yet effective)
Ethiopia Multisectoral
HIV/AIDS Project (Approved
but not yet effective
Other development agencies
- 13-



USAID                             IEC, STD management
training, MTCT, VCT, condom
distribution, NGO support,
advocacy, workplace programs,
surveillance
CIDA                              CSW. IEC, STD management,
support for PLWHA
GTZ                               TA to integrate HIV/AIDS into
district PHC
DANIDA                            PLWHA
DFID                              Reproductive Health;
EU
Support for NGOs, STD
management
UNAIDS                            Advocacy, resource
mobilization, training
traditional healers and
physicians, planning
UNICEF                            IEC, peer education to
adolescents. CSW
UJNDP                             Home based care
UNFPA                             Training, support for NGOs,
peer education, IEC, advocacy
WHO                                Surveillance, training on STD
and counseling, IEC,
home-based care, support to
NACP
IPWDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several design features of successful AIDS/STD programs in Africa and other regions are reflected in the
design. These examine the overall approach of Garfund and the content of the interventions. In Uganda
political leadership was a key factor in the success of the program. The high level of the GAC members
under the chairmanship of the President gives the program the visibility it needs. In Brazilfhuilding a
constituency for AIDS/STD program early on at local, regional and national levels are key. Garfund will
conduct a communications campaign early on to inform potential actors about its objectives and strategy. A
coordinated multi-sector approach has also been found to be the most effective in addressing the epidemic.
Garfund is ensuring that the GAC designate a technical subcommittee to which it will delegate many of its
advisory tasks to avoid delays in implementation caused by competing opportunities for GAC member's
time. An annual half-day workshop will be held with representatives of sector ministries once their work
plans for HIV/AIDS are developed in order to ensure coherence, coordination and reduce duplication of
efforts.
NGO and CBO participation is critical for project success. In both Brazil and Uganda these organizations
were the most effective in reaching high risk groups and in delivering IEC messages through less formal
channels. In Uganda they were more easily mobilized to provide care in the community (in the broadest
sense, ranging from providing home-based care of AIDS patients and also supporting income generating
- 14-



activities for those who are still strong enough to work). NGOs are very effective in peer education, which
has been shown to be cost-effective in modifying community and individual norms and attitudes in the
United States and Zimbabwe. NGOs can more easily address cultural and ethnic issues to care and
prevention. NGOs also have the added value that they are more innovative and flexible in their approaches
and already have an infrastructure in the communities where they work. A communications campaign will
be carried out to inform and encourage civil society organizations to participate. Targeted campaigns will
be conducted in areas with low coverage to encourage CBOs and NGOs in the area to participate prior to
each funding cycle. Their participation in the GAC will be encouraged.
The targeting of specific high risk groups has been shown to be very effective in reducing the spread of the
epidemic (United States, Brazil, Uganda). While Garfund intends to have nation-wide coverage, specific
activities will target high risk groups, including, the police, army, prisons, commercial sex workers and
truck drivers, all of whom were among the first to be hit by the epidemic. Youth need to be targeted as well,
as HIV is on the rise among them and they have demonstrated the greatest capacity to adopt safer sex
practices. In Uganda, HIV growth rates have declined the most in this age group. While there are
subgroups of women who are more vulnerable, WHV has increased significantly among women in general
and targeting them will be crucial to reduce the spread of infection. High risk groups will be mapped and
their coverage will be carefully monitored. Coverage attained by each funding cycle in terms of number
and groups reached will be assessed through the MIS prior to the call for proposals to define funding
priorities for the subsequent funding cycle.
Capacity building was found to be a key feature of the program in Uganda. A phased approach was
employed in the implementation of district level activities, beginning with those districts most affected by
the epidemic. Within three years, all the districts were covered. This project will provide implementing
entities with funds to contract technical assistance and training when necessary. It will also phase both the
implementation of district activities, beginning with those that have already completed district level
strategic plans, allowing the others to prepare their own. It will also permit the incremental implementation
responsibilities of umbrella organizations over subsequent funding cycles.
Monitoring and evaluation are necessary components of any strategy to combat AIDS. Ghana has a
reasonable surveillance system which can give some estimates of prevalence among women receiving
antenatal care, and on women seeking STD diagnosis and treatment. Data from these specific groups will
be employed to assess prevalence. However, data on prevalence need to be complemented with
population-based information on Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices and Behavior (KAPB) regarding
HIV/AIDS to be able to assess what interventions have had the greatest effects and define where future
priorities need to be placed. Some baseline information is already available. A Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS) was conducted in 1998 which can be used as baseline information for Garfund activities.
Another DHS is planned for sometime around 2003/2004 and can be used to measure population-based
indicators of program impact. Moreover, some information will be available on knowledge, attitudes and
behavior for high risk groups including youth (both males and females aged 18-24), commercial sex
workers, miners and police. The survey is being conducted now (October 2000) in Accra, Kumasi and
Obuasi by Family Health Intemational. An endline survey will also be conducted. In addition, the project
will monitor process and outcome indicators, and will also involve civil society in monitoring and ensuring
accountability at the grass roots level.
- 15 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In early 1999, the GoG set up a multi-sector task force to assess the status of the epidemic and to make
recommendations to reduce its spread. Based on its recommendations, the Vice-President called on the
International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa (IPAA) to assess its readiness to join the Partnership. It
was the first African country to do so. In his endorsement of the recommendations of the task force, the
Vice-President expressed the governrnent's concern with the status of the epidemic and recognized
HIV/AIDS as a priority health and development issue. In response, a mission of the IPAA visited Ghana in
October 1999 and recommended the establishment of a special fund to scale up the fight against AIDS
through a multi-sector effort.
Since early 1999 the GoG has conducted a Situation Analysis of HIV/AIDS, a Response Analysis
examining its achievements to date and gaps, and has developed a Strategic Framework for the next five
years. In addition, it has established a high level multi-sector commission (the Ghana AIDS Commission,
GAC) and is in the process of setting up its executive arm, the GAC's Secretariat.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Availability of sufficient funding for HIV/AIDS. Many donors are supporting both the Health Program
Support Project and Ghana's efforts to step up efforts to combat HIV/AIDS. However, no donor alone is
able to mobilize the amount of resources necessary for a fund which could finance the efforts of
non-governmental and community-based groups as well as public agencies.
Cross country experience: The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and STD control projects and
has ample experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of these programs in all continents the
Bank works in. Through its regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica), the Bank is
well-positioned to make available regional experiences to Garfund. Moreover, the Bank has ample
experience in the management of investment and community development funds all over the world in which
implementing entities are largely organizations of civil society and local district governments.
Analytical capacity. The Bank has authored numerous studies analyzing HIV/AIDS and its impact,
drawing upon knowledge in epidemiology, public health, and economics in order to make recommendations
on defining priorities, strategies to confront it, and the measurement of its impact. The Bank can provide
added value in its technical assistance on monitoring and evaluation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic: A very detailed economic analysis of the impact of MAP activities on the HIV/AIDS epidemic
and the economic benefits of these activities was conducted for the preparation of the Multiple Country
HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP). A summary of that econometric analysis is included
here with a focus on Ghana. For illustrative purposes, it was assumed that some eight representative
African countries (including Ghana) would have access to the financing provided by the MAP. These
countries include some 280 million people, just under half of Sub-Saharan Africa's population. The cost of
implementing comprehensive, national HIV/AIDS programs in full in these countries was estimated at
US$575 million per year.
- 16-



If such nationwide scale could be achieved quickly, the MAP would help reduce the HIV prevalence rate in
these countries from 7.9 percent in 1999 to 5.6 percent over ten years and below 4 percent over 15 years.
The driving force would be the reduction by half in the number of new HIV infections among 15-24
year-olds over the next decade. This is an ambitious but achievable goal that has been met in some parts of
Uganda and Zambia in the 1990s. For the rest of the adult population, new HIV infections would decrease
in a similar fashion, but because of the stock of existing HIV infections, the adult HIV prevalence rate
would fall by only 25 percent over ten years period. The rate of return on HIV/AIDS prevention activities
for the eight countries was estimated to range from 22% to 13%. The benefit was an increase in the rate of
growth of GDP per capita of about 0.35 percentage points per year.
The economic benefits would be manifold. The fall in new HIV infections would reduce the number of new
AIDS cases. Over the next 20 years, some 6.7 million adult deaths would be averted. In economic terms,
this would result in lower costs of treatment and care of HIV/AIDS patients, which would offset part of the
MAP costs. The macroeconomic benefits, while intuitively compelling, are difficult to quantify. Data
constraints and the wide variety of ways through which the epidemic affects development limit the types of
analysis that can be done. Cross-country analysis has produced estimates broadly consistent with those of
other methods, but the limitations of this approach should be borne in mind. That said, on the basis of
existing evidence as discussed in Annex 5 of the MAP, the fall in the HIV prevalence rate would likely
increase the growth rate of GDP per capita. In addition, the reduction in AIDS-related deaths would
increase labor force growth, further raising GDP growth. In total, the rate of growth of GDP would
increase gradually by about 0.2 percentage points per year in 2007-2015 and 0.5 percentage points
afterwards. Calculating the net economic benefits that would result from the combination of output
increase and the different assumptions conceming costs is necessarily speculative. The estimated intemal
rate of return is, however, quite similar under the two cost assumptions, at around 30 percent.
Ghana has made great improvement in macroeconomic policy (its CPIA rating rose substantially between
1995 and 1999). This can explain the increase in per capita growth from - 1.1 % per year in the 1980s to
1.5% in the 1990s. Without a strong HV/AIDS program, the benefits from improved macroeconomic
performance are going to be undermined by the spread of HIV. According to UNAIDS data, the estimated
HIV prevalence rate rose from 2.38% (1997 UNAIDS estimate) to 3.6% (1999 UJNAIDS estimate). The
estimated impact is a reduction in the rate of growth of GDP per capita of about -0.4 percentage points per
year. Put differently, Ghana's per capita GDP would have increased by 1.9% per year instead of 1.4% per
year in 1990-97 if the HIV prevalence rate had been zero.
There are clear benefits of acting early. The estimated cost of a national-scale prevention and care program
amounts to 1.2% of GDP per year. This is low compared to other countries. One reason is that the cost of
treatment and care of AIDS is a small share of total cost because few people have AIDS. But if one waits,
the cost will rise quickly and reach a point where the increased number of AIDS cases result in a total cost
that cannot be afforded by countries. For a typical African country with a per capita income of US$300,
the cost of prevention and care increases from 1% of GDP (HIV rate below 5%) to 5.7% of GDP when the
prevalence rate reaches 25%. At current prevalence rates (less than 5%) implementing an WHV/AIDS
control program would amount to 1.0 percent of GDP. Should action be delayed until prevalence reaches
25 percent, the budgetary costs of the program are estimated at 5.7 percent of GDP. Thus, the timing of
the program is paramount in significantly containing costs in the medium and long term.
Compared to the average African country, Ghana is well placed as concerns gender inequality and income
inequality (both are much better than Southern Africa). But it is not well placed as concems ethnic
fractionalization, (which may worsen the allocation of public expenditures across ethnic groups). This
- 17-



could be addressed by focusing on community-based organizations, which are quite strong in Ghana, and
can offset the potential adverse impact of ethnic fractionalization.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable.
Fiscal Impact:
No civil works nor medical equipment will be procured and thus the project is not expected to generate
additional recurrent costs.
3. Technical:
The activities financed under Garfund follow intemationally accepted best practice for HIV/AIDS
responses, as validated by UNAIDS. The project was prepared in close collaboration with the GoG and
UNAIDS, and contains the input of the donor partnership working on health and HIV/AIDS in Ghana.
Several key line ministries have been involved in the preparation of project components and implementation
arrangements to ensure consistency with national technical standards and procedures. Given the key role of
the MoH in HIV/AIDS activities and the need to ensure adequate coordination between Garfund and MoH
activities, the preparation team included someone from the Policy Planning Monitoring & Evaluation
Division and the head of the National AIDS Control Program from the MoH. Standard protocols, as
recommended by UNAIDS or the World Health Organization will be used for the provision of voluntary
counseling and testing, and counseling in other contexts. Training will be provided as required to address
the handling and disposal of medical equipment, supplies, and waste technology.
4. Institutional:
The Ghana AIDS Commission, located under the Office of the President, is well placed for coordinating the
National HIV/AIDS program and the project, and to provide a multi-sector perspective. Coordination of
all sectors financed by Garfund with MoH activities will pose an important challenge. Ensuring active
participation of the MoH in the GAC will be crucial.
Implementation capacity differs by implementing agency. TheGhana AIDS Commission has just been
established, as has its Secretariat, and therefore lacks project implementation experience. However, the
Secretariat includes some staff who have had prior experience with implementation of large donor/IDA
financed projects. Included is at least one key staff from the MoH, which has had a close relationship with
IDA and a satisfactory implementation record. IDA will work closely with the GAC to ensure they have
the necessary financial management and procurement skills.Line ministries differ in the extent to which
they have taken HlV/AIDS into account and their implementation capacity. Several line ministries
including the Ministries of Education, Communications, and Agriculture have prepared draft action plans.
DFID has already committed to finance technical assistance to help line ministries develop their action
plans for HIV/AIDS well before effectiveness.Districts also have differing implementation capacity and
levels of planning for HIV/AIDS. To date, 22 districts have prepared strategic plans to integrate
HIV/AIDS into their work plans. DFID has also committed to assist in the expansion of the District
Response Initiative to enable more districts to access funds at project start-up. As foLcivil society. NGOs
and CBOs, Garfund will finance technical assistance to strengthen their capacity.
-18 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
Not applicable.
4.2 Project management:
Not applicable.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Not applicable.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps wudertaken for enviromiiental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
It is expected that the program activities would not generate any adverse environmental effects. Guidelines
will be prepared as part of the procedural manual to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into
account in all subprojects supporting home based care and the training of traditional birth attendants and
healers, to ensure the proper disposal of medical waste. When needed, training will be provided.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and statLs of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Garfund is expected to have a very positive social impact by assisting and empowering people and
institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Garfund activities will deal with a broad
and sensitive range of social issues conceming HLV/AIDS. Opposition may arise to providing assistance
and empowerment to some vulnerable groups such as youth and women, and especially socially
marginalized groups such as commercial sex workers, men having sex with men, and inmates.
Issues such as distribution of condoms to youths and to married women may raise cultural and religious
sensitivities. The project will involve key stakeholders who are experienced in dealing with these issues (i.e.
civil society organizations and people living with HIV/AIDS) to help overcome such barriers in locally
appropriate ways and ensure that no groups are excluded in program implementation. In addition the
-19-



project will carry out a series of advocacy, inforrmation, education and communication activities to create
awareness of the legal rights of PLWHA.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory approach not used, describe
why not applicable
Garfund is the product of a series of government sponsored actions involving all key line ministries,
stakeholders and the donor partnership, under the guidance of UNAIDS. Stakeholder consultation
(including NGOs. civil society, PLWHAs and Districts) was conducted at key moments of the process.
The GoG established a multi-sector HIV/AIDS Oversight Committee which has coordinated and supervised
two important activities: (a) a draft Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana, and (b) and a response
analysis conducted by multi-sector teams employing a participatory approach. The recommendations of
the response analysis, and of the consultations with the donor community under the guidance of UNAIDS,
were to establish a mechanism that would allow the GoG to implement a scaled-up multi-sector response to
the epidemic. This led the GoG to establish the Ghana HIV/AIDS Commission in the Presidency which
includes high level representation of all key sectors, including line ministries and civil society (church,
professional and trade groups, and NGOs working on HIV/AIDS), and to seek financing for this scaled up
response. Several members of the donor partnership have responded in addition to IDA, including DFID
and USAID. As part of the process of project preparation, meetings were held with the broader group of
members of the GAC to obtain their feedback. Actual preparation was conducted with staff from the
GAC's secretariat. The donor partnership was also consulted. The contents of the project itself include the
needs and strategies identified in the documents prepared by the GoG, the comments of the GAC, and the
views of stakeholders consulted. Thus, the project design is based on a broad national consensus of what
needs to be done to combat IV/AIDS.
During project implementation, a number of beneficiary assessments will be conducted to obtain feedback
on the nature and quality of services being delivered to monitor quality through the eyes of beneficiaries.
The process will contribute to raising awareness amongst both beneficiaries and the project implementation
team. Project supervision and oversight also involves stakeholders. Subproject activities financed under
Group C would be supervised by District teams. And, a hotline will be established for the stakeholders to
be able to report irregularities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGO's and other civil society group are eligible for such project
financing.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development ouitcomes?
The institutional arrangements envisage collaboration with civil
society in project supervision and through beneficiary assessments.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Beneficiary assessments as well as specific monitoring indicators.
- 20 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PoIc:                                       ApIC.b-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
- 21 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is built upon the strong government ownership and supports the national program. Institutional
capacitv building to be provided at national and local level would enhance the sustainability of the project
and its local sub-projects. Moreover, many project management functions will be slowly decentralized to
the Districts Nxhen capacity is assessed as adequate.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
IFrom Outputs to Objective
!Garfund institutional arrangemenits mav       S          Obtain assurances from the GoG as to the
be cumbersome                                            autonomy of the Secretariat. Provide ample
supervision support in the first year or two
The MoH mav be unable to scale up its          S         Obtain assurances from the MoH that the
share of HIV/IAIDS activities        I                   budget for HIV/AIDS will be increased in the
next POW. Additional financing for health
would be considered by IDA
From Components to Outputs
An insufficient amount of Garfund              S         Action plans submitted by line ministries must
resources will flow from central line                    detail how the funds will reach the districts.
.minisries to the districts                              This will be carefully monitored. Districts will
be encouraged to submit proposals for funding
There will be insufficient NGO/civil         M          |The project will work closely with Districts that
socicty participation                                    are not opening the door to NGOs/civil society
Smaller CBOs in more rural districts will      S         The project will seek proposals from the more
be too hard to reach and may lack                        remote CBOs and assist them in proposal
capacity, leaving large areas uncovered                  preparation when needed. They will be targeted
by the communications campaign
Slow disbursement due to limited                         Most procurement will be done through
financial capacit-. procuremenit capability!             subprojects and will be for small contracts.
and/or project management                                Assistance from Ministries receiving IDA
funding will be sought
Overall Risk Rating                   i        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



2.     Risks
A well-balanced multisector response requires astronger and more focused response from the health
sector to ensure the necessary synergy will be gencrated. A less than adequate response from the MoH
could greatly limit and possibly have a detrimental effect on the project as Garfund will generate demand
for MoH services, including VCT, prevention of MTCT, condoms and clinical care, and a failure to
respond will lead to a loss of credibility in the GoG's effort. This poses an important risk to project
success as the MoH is currently not focusing sufficiently on HIV/AIDS. IDA will continue to support the
MoH's efforts to improve access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment of opportunistic infections.
provide better quality of care and improve the overall efficiency of its efforts. Assurances will be obtained
from the MoH, that it will give greater priority to HIv'/AIDS in its annual POW and that it will increase its
budget allocation to HIV/AIDS interventions. An action plan of the activities to be scaled up will be
prepared and discussed as part of the discussion of next year's POW. Areas where the MoH needs to
improve its response have been identified in the "Response Analvsis". Should additional funding for the
health sector be required. IDA will be willing to reconsider it
Ensuring achive participation of grassroots organizations, districts, and civil .society. An important risk
to Garfund is that capacity is so low at the grassroots that it would be difficult to encourage a strong
grassroots response. Garfund will ensure participation of the smaller organizations by actively seeking
proposals from them and providing technical support in their preparation and implementation. A
communications campaign describing the purpose of Garfund, how to access financing, and what may be
financed, will be implemented early on and before each funding cycle. More targeted carnpaigns will be
carried out to reach CBOs in specific areas. To encourage participation, the smaller groups would get some
seed funds to initiate some activities which could be expanded through a subsequent mnore formal proposal
at a later date. In the case of line ministries, there is a danger that funds destined to reach the district level
will do so very slowly or not get there at all. Garfund will seek local initiatives., particularlv from districts
that have already prepared a strategic plan to confront HIV/AIDS. DFID will finance the provision of
technical assistance to Districts to ensure a substantial number of them have prepared a strategic plan to
confront HIV/AIDS prior to pro ect start-up. A related risk is that Government, at national and district
levels may not be as willing as necessary to finance civil society organizations to provide ser-vices. The
current distribution of funds amongst the three windows in component 1 is designed to encourage more civil
society participation.
Institutional arrangements need to be agile. Given the Secretariat's lack of experience in implementation
of IDA-funded projects it is expected there will be some disbursement delavs initiallv. Both financial
management and procurement need to be carefully supported through supervision and technical assistance.
IDA will recommend the contracting of someone with prior Bank procurement experience. Should the
financial management system not be adequatelv established to permit smooth implementation. the need to
subcontract that function will be considered. Delays can also result from the politicization of the project.
The Secretariat must be staffed by politically neutral professionals and must have sufficient independence
from the GAC to not delay implementation. Moreover, the subcomniittee selecting proposals to be funded
will have a rotating membership.
On IDA's side
Given the multi-sectoral nature of the project, the limited capacity of the newly formed Ghana AIDS
Commission and its Secretariat, the number of players involved, and the agility required to disburse
rapidly, the supervision of the project will require greater-than-standard effort. IDA will have to ensure the
necessary financial management and procurement support are available to the project, and that supervision
- 23 -



staff comprise specialists from several sectors. Higher than average supervision coefficients need to be
provided particularly during the first year of implementation.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Activities to be financed by Garfund have been amply discussed in the Govemment and with members of
the GAC who include NGO, religious, trade representatives, among others and thus are not expected to
spark controversy.
- 24 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are five proposed conditions of effectiveness for the credit: (a) adoption by the Government of the
operational manual for the Project; (b) establishment of a financial management system for the Project
acceptable to IDA; (c) establishment of GAC the Secretariat with appointment thereto of staff with
qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association; (d) the adoption of a legal framework for the
management and operation of the AIDS Response Fund; and, (e) the selection of auditors for the Project
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Grants for the financing of sub-projects shall be awarded in accordance with the policies and procedures set
forth in the Operational Manual.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[D1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
C: 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
N 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
F 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Sandra Raenhouse                  Rosemary Bellew                    Peter C. Harrold
Team Leader                       -Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
...... ..e . ...r              anc
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce the spread of      Increase the proportion of men Ghana Demographic and  The supported programs will
HIV/AIDS through a        in a union using condoms    Health Survey (GDHS)      enable the mobilization of
multisectoral approach    during their last intercourse                        sufficient financial and human
from 15% to 30% by 2005                              resources to support a
multi-sectoral and sustainable
Increase the proportion of                           national response to the
women in a union using                               epidemic
condoms during their last    Ghana Demographic and
intercourse from 6% to 20%   Health Survey (GDHS)
by 2005
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To reduce the spread of H1V Maintain prevalence of HIV of HIV/AIDS surveillance  Multi-sectoral activities
infection                 pregnant women at or below 6                          financed will lead to
percent by 2005                                      attitudinal and behavior
change regarding prevention.
Close coordination with health
sector activities designed to
reduce the spread of
HIV/AIDS and its impact.
The Secretariat will have
sufficient autonomy to operate
in an agile manner
Reduce the prevalence of HIV  Special Studies (CIDA  Idem
infections to 75% among   financed)
commercial sex workers in
Kumasi by 2005
Increase the proportion of men Demographic and Health    Idem
and women who have reduced Survey (GDHS)
the number of sexual partners
in response to perceived risk
from 60% to 75% by 2005
Increase the median age at   Demographic and Health    Idem
first intercourse from 17 to 18 Survey (GDHS)
years of age by 2005
Reduce the impact of AIDS on Increase the proportion of    Macro systems Services  Multi-sectoral activities
those infected and their  PLWHA that are receiving    Survey, Special Study based  financed will reduce the
families                  home or community based    on sample of Districts    stigma associated with
care among those PLWHA                               HIV/AIDS and lead to
that have sought medical                             attitudinal and behavior
treatment through the MoH                            change regarding care-giving
network to 30% by the year                          to PLWHAs
2005
- 26 -



Provision of Prevention and   Increase the proportion of    Project Data       Civil society organizations
Care Services             funds awarded to CBO                                know about Garfund, are
submitted subprojects                               interested in participating, and
(through windows B and C) to                        the Garfund is agile in
20% of all subproject funding                       responding to them
by 2005
Increase to 100 the number of Project Data          Districts will have the capacity
Districts that have prepared                        and interest to carry out
plans to address HIV/AIDS                           activities
and are implementing part of
their plans by 2005
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Increase the % of         Ghana Demographic and     Information about condom
males/females who know they Health Survey           availability is transmitted and
can avoid HIV by using                              will be absorbed and
condoms from 40% to 75%                             understood
(males) and from 22% to 50%
(females) by 2005
Increase the % of         Ghana Demographic and     Sufficient information about
males/females who know they Health Survey           HIV transmission is provided,
can avoid HIV by restricting                        absorbed and understood
sex to one partner from 60%
to 90% by 2005
Increase the proportion of all Project Data         Civil society organizations
subprojects that develop IEC                        working in rural areas see IEC
materials designed specifically                     as a priority
for rural populations (in local
dialects) to 30% by 2005
By 2005, 50% of all 1st and   Ministry of Education, Project There is no public opposition
2nd cycle schools are     data                      to providing AIDS training to
providing HIV/AIDS                                  students
education
By 2005, all line ministries   Project data         Line Ministries are interested
have trained trainers at the                        in receiving training and the
district level on HIV/AIDS                          training is adequate
By 2005, 30% of districts have Project data         Willingness of NGOs and civil
organized care of AIDS                              society to participate
orphans
By 2005, 50% of districts have Project data         Willingness of NGOs and civil
comnuunity-based care for                           society to participate.
PLWHAs                                              Stigma is reduced, and
individuals are not afraid of
AIDS
By 2005, an adequate referral MoH statistics, Project Data   Adequate collaboration
system between home-based                           between the MoH and the rest
and institution-based care has                      of Garfund exists
been established and is
functioning in 40% of districts
- 27 -



Strengthening Public/Private  The funding received by  Project Data              A sufficient number of
Institutions for HIV/AIDS  affiliations (umbrellas) that                         existing affiliations are willing
control                    are able to manage smaller                           to manage funds for their
civil society organizations or                        members or other
affiliates to provide services                        organizations
will increase to 30% of funds                        /associations
disbursed by component I by
2005
The proportion of subprojects Project data            The training and TA provided
implemented effectively,                              by Garfund is adequate to
meeting their stated objectives                       meet the needs of
will increase by 10% every                           implementing entities
year
Knowledge Management       100% of Districts regularly   Project reports, random  Access to rural Districts is
receive information on "best  site-visits, supervision  available by mail
practice" examples of
HIV/AIDS interventions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Su b-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. Prevention and Care    US$2 1.0 million            Project information system  The purpose of the project is
Services                                                                         adequately disserminated
B- Strengthening           US$2.4 million             Project infonration system  There is ample participation
Public/Private Institutions for                                                  by grassroots organizations
HIV/AIDS Control
C. Knowledge Management  US$1.4 million              Project information system  The materials and information
generated by the project are
utilized at the local level
D. Project Management and  US$3.0 million             Project information system  Line ministry allocations
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                        reach the districts
The institutional framework
for the Garfund is agile
Procurement procedures are
implemented smoothly
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
The Project, Garfund, would finance a US$25.0 million, 4-year component of the non-MoH mandated
activities of the Government's Strategic Framework for AIDS. Garfund aims to intensify multi-sector
activities designed to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS and to reduce its impact on those already affected.
To achieve its objective, the project includes support for the following activities:
By Component:
Project Component I - US$21.00 million
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
This component would employ a fund mechanism to solicit, evaluate and fund service provision subproject
proposals to carry out activities in prevention of HIV transmission and care of PLWHAs and their families.
Access to funds for the financing of proposals would be available through three windows, each with
slightly different access nies. The first group (Group A) includes proposals from line ministries, and will
finance activities for intemal and external clients The second group (Group B) includes financing for
proposals from civil society organizations including NGOs, CBOs, trade and professional associations,
associations of PLWHAs, Districts, among others, or groups of these entities, including affiliation
networks (umbrella organizations). The third group (Group C) would provide seed money for activities
conducted by very small CBOs and associations, not to exceed $2500 up front to engage in activities
defined in a letter of intent. Garfund will encourage group proposals to scale-up the response more rapidly.
Affiliation networks that do not possess sufficient capacity to subcontract and manage smaller entities will
be encouraged to submit proposals that include training and TA to strengthen their capacity and allow them
to scale up in subsequent funding cycles. Likewise, Districts will be encouraged to present proposals for
activities to be conducted by several civil society organizations in their district. Proposals will indicate the
activities to be conducted and can include up to 10 % for TA to be received by the implementing entity to
improve the entity's ability to provide the proposed services. The maximum duration of contracts is to be
one year. Each funding cycle is expected to disburse approximately US$2.5 million. The amounts to be
allocated to fund proposals under each group are set initially as described below but will be adjusted as
needed as implementation proceeds. Calls for proposals will take place on a semi-annual basis. The
selection of proposals to be funded for Groups A and B will be carried out by a technical subcommittee of
the GAC. Proposals for Group C would be selected by the Districts and sent to the Secretariat for the
processing of contracts.
Line Ministries (Group A) will be able to submit proposals once: (a) they have included a line item in their
budget to work on HIV/AIDS activities; (b) have prepared an action plan to address HIV/AIDS. A ceiling
for the amount of funding allocated to Group A will be defined for each funding cycle. Initially it will
represent about 25 percent of the funds available for that cycle, i.e. approximately US$625,000. Line
Ministries will have to provide matching funds of up to 10% of the proposed activities, and the maximum
amount to be requested will not exceed US$100,000. Garfund would finance only those activities
considered eligible for funding (as described below). Line Ministries will primarily need financing for
sensitizing/training their own staff at all levels), for developing policies and guidelines to address
HlV/AIDS and its consequences, and some sector-specific interventions involving extemal clients.
District-level interventions/proposals involving work with extemal clients will be funded through group B.
Activities eligible for funding in Group A include, among others:
- 29 -



(a) advocacy to increase political support and mobilize the community.
(b) targeted messages to captive homogeneous audiences such as schools, unions, and other organizations
with large membership on promotion of safe practices, and to dispel misconceptions about HIV/AIDS.
(c) policy development
(d) preparation of guidelines and manuals related to confronting AIDS in their sector.
(e) sensitization and training of ministerial staff centrally and training of trainers at the District level on
HIV/AIDS
(f) preparation of strategic plans at the district level to combat AIDS
(g) technical assistance required to provide that service more effectively
Proposals from Group B will be selected on a competitive basis. Group proposals would be encouraged.
Proposals would be assessed on the basis of their technical merits and on their fulfillment of some basic
eligibility requirements. The latter are more stringent for large contracts. The criteria are specified in the
Operational Manual. Less than 5 percent of proposals are expected to be for contracts over US$100,000.
Group proposals that include the subcontracting of other smaller entities will have to include information
on how the funds will be managed and the activities supervised. It is expected that close to two-thirds of
each funding cycle will go to Group B (approximately US$1.6 million). Included in this group would be
Districts submitting proposals on the basis of Strategic Plans prepared under the District Response
Initiative. These may or may not include activities executed by local civil society organizations.
Recipients of grants under Group B would have to make in-kind contributions of up to 10% of subproject
costs. To ensure subprojects address local needs and minimize duplication, all implementing entities
(NGOs, civil society, CBOs) need to secure the endorsement of the Districts they are working in.
Approximately 11 percent, or US$275,000 will be available per funding cycle initially for funding small
contracts under $2500 (Group C). Proposals from Group C would require a statement of intent, a
guarantee in the form of a declaration of joint liability signed by at least 5 unrelated community members,
and some very basic information (this has worked very well in other settings). The details of the
requirements are spelled out in Garfund's Operational Manual.
Activities eligible for funding by Groups B and C include, among others:
(a) advocacy to increase political support and mobilize the community;
(b) local campaigns to raise awareness and understanding about HIV/AIDS, its mode of transmission and
its consequences;
(c) interventions targeting high risk groups to encourage low risk behavior and voluntary counseling and
testing of both HIV and STDs. High risk groups include commercial sex workers and their clients, truck
drivers, the prison population, the army and youth;
(d) targeted messages to captive homogeneous audiences such as schools, unions, and other organizations
with large membership on promotion of safe practices, and to dispel misconceptions about HIV/AIDS;
(e) peer education in the community, schools, workplace, etc. to promote safe practices, encourage
voluntary counseling and testing for both HIV and STDs, and to encourage community-based care of
PLWHAs;
(f) counseling;
(g) condom distribution combined with information about safe practices;
(h) home-care for PLWHAs including nursing care and support in daily routine activities;
(i) community care for orphans;
(j) income generation activities for PLWHAs and their families;
(k) legal advice and information for protection of PLWHA;
- 30 -



(1) activities designed to prepare legislation to protect PLWHAs, and;
(m) technical assistance required to provide that service more effectively.
A broad communications campaign will be conducted to inforn potential executing entities about the
objectives of Garfimd, how to access funds, and on activities that may be financed. Brief campaigns would
be held at the time of each call for proposals. Prior to each cycle, analyses of coverage will be conducted
to identify areas that are insufficiently covered to target them through a targeted communications approach.
Accountability and transparency will be promoted by establishing a hotline for reporting fraudulent
practices, and advertising in the newspapers of the widest circulation, the names of the entities receiving
awards, the amount of the awards and the activities financed. CBOs and NGOs would be expected to
submit evidence of their prior work in the District. All subprojects must be endorsed by the Districts they
are proposing to work in.
Calls for proposals will take place semiannually. Proposals for groups A and B will be reviewed by a
rotating subcommittee of the GAC, who will select those to be funded and obtain the GAC's endorsement.
The composition of the subcommittee will be public. To streamline project selection and to ensure local
needs are addressed, proposals in Group C will be reviewed and selected by District authorities (eventually
the District AIDS committees, once they are established) who will submit their recommendations to the
Secretariat. When the Secretariat makes the call for proposals it will inform Districts approximately how
much they may have available to finance subprojects. The indicative amount would be prevalence and
population-based, and would not be disbursed unless letters of intent/proposals have been submitted.
Districts would submit their recommendations for funding to the Secretariat who would issue the necessary
contracts. The funds would go directly to the entities submitting the proposals. As implementation
proceeds and the capacity of districts is ascertained, the process could be further decentralized by having
the Secretariat transfer the total amount of funding for the proposals submitted to each District Assembly
to disburse and supervise. As Regional AIDS Committees are established and possess the necessary
capacity, they will be given a role in subproject supervision and dissemination of information.
Participating entities will have to meet pre-defined eligibility criteria specified in the Operational Manual to
receive funding. The Secretariat will prepare the contracts and work with the implementing entities on all
the implementation arrangements. The project will provide orientation on how to prepare proposals, and
once awards are made, it will provide training on basic project management, bank procurement procedures,
and financial management. Technical training on HIV/AIDS prevention and care issues, community
participation techniques, home-based care, and in technical areas specifically addressing HlV/AIDS will be
available. Implementing entities receiving funding will be requested to coordinate with local health
authorities or other local health services when relevant to ensure coordination.
The funding cycle process allows for a phased implementation and will allow for a more rapid start-up by
allocating resources to those who are ready to go first. It also allows the flexibility to modify funding
priorities each cycle to reflect the perceived needs. The first cycle will target greater Accra and Kumasi,
and the Eastern region which, in addition to being more accessible, allowing project staff to work out
unforeseen implementation issues and ensure all arrangements are in place, are also the areas of the highest
incidence of HIV/AIDS. In order to ensure high risk groups and vulnerable groups are being prioritized, a
careful mapping of the location of these groups will be prepared when Garfund is established, and the
coverage attained through each funding cycle will be assessed prior to each subsequent funding cycle to
define funding priorities for the following call for proposals.
The proposed fund would be placed under the authority the GAC, which would be in charge of the
definition of broad priorities for action, the selection of eligible proposals (through the subcommittee), and
- 31 -



the monitoring of the performance of those receiving funding (with inputs from the Secretariat). The fund
would not finance drugs, civil works nor any physical rehabilitation, vehicles, overseas training, laboratory
or medical equipment.
Project Component 2 - US$2.40 million
Strengthening Public/Private institutions for HIV/AIDS Control (Capacity Building)
Capacity building is essential to improve skills and strengthen structures to help achieve the Garfund
objective of scaling up the national HIV/AIDS response. The purpose is to enhance both the technical and
managerial capacity of implementing entities to implement projects as well as sustain the process of scaling
the WHV/AIDS response. Both technical assistance to specific projects (not previously defined in
subproject proposals) as well, as training to groups of implementing entities will be provided. Although
implementing entities will have identified some TA in their proposals, it is expected that through project
supervision and the entity's experience in the implementation of subproject activities, additional needs
would be identified. Only entities implementing subprojects are eligible for training. The training will be
subcontracted to NGOs and line ministries with expertise on the issue in question. The project will keep a
live list of pre-qualified TA/training providers on hand and contract them as needs arise. The Secretariat
will contract TA/training providers directly. Feedback from beneficiaries will be obtained on a regular
basis to monitor the quality of the services provided. Random site visits will be made by Garfund.
Project Component 3 - USS 1.40 million
Knowledge Management
The project will set up and maintain an information clearing house/data base on HIV/AIDS relevant to
implementing entities to improve their effectiveness. The purpose is to provide implementers with the latest
information on HIV/AIDS prevention and care, best practice examples from other countries, research
results, and any other reports that would be useful to them. In addition it would provide a forum for
information and experience exchange by implementing entities, and access to technical information on the
project itself Information would be disseminated in various mediums, including newsletters, copies of
published papers, meetings to exchange information and via the intemet. It is expected that umbrella
organizations could have a key role as vehicles of dissemination of information. Once the Regional AIDS
committees are all established, they will also serve as focal points for dissemination.
Project Component 4 - US$3.00 million
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Management. (Refer to Section C, Implementation Arrangements). The Garfund will have a
strong Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponent that will assess the progress attained in the fight against
AIDS nationwide on the basis of the targets defined in the Strategic Framework and will monitor the
advance of Garfund financed activities.
- 32-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Local       Fodreiga       Totat
Project Cost By omone.nt                  Us             S $miW1n    US $mRilo-
Component 1 (Prevention and Care Services                 20.00          1.00         21.00
Component 2 (Strengthening Public/Private Institutions for  2.10         0.30          2.40
HIV/AIDS Control)
Component 3 (Knowledge Management)                          0.90         0.50          1.40
Project Management (mcl. M& E)                              2.80         0.20          3.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       25.80          2.00         27.80
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs              25.80          2.00        27.80
Total Financing Required              25.80          2.00         27.80
1. .P r.ojectCost.Byvate; ory          -US $I         us - mil       S U
Goods                                                        0.50           0.50          1.00
Consultant Services & Training                               4.00           0.50         4.50
Subproject                                                  20.20           0.80        21.00
Operating Costs                                              1.10           0.20          1.30
Total Project Costs     25.80          2.00         27.80
Total Financing Required     25.80           2.00         27.80
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 27.8 (IJS$n) Tlherefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 89.93% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Not applicable.
Main Assumptions:
Not applicable.
Sensitivity analysis t Switching values of critical items:
Not applicable.
- 34-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Not applicable.
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Procurement
General
Although the specific type of activities to be financed under the project have been defined, it is not possible
at this stage to determine the exact mix of goods and services which will be procured as most will be
procured through demand driven subprojects (Component 1, Prevention and Care Services). Part of
Component 2 (Strengthening Public/Private Institutions for WHV/AIDS Control) will also be based on
perceived need and thus is difficult to forecast.
Guidelines
All goods financed under the IDA credit would be procured in accordance with theGuidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January andAugust
1996, September1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with theGuidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised
September 1997 and January 1999. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) an
explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder and (d) foreign bidders would
not be precluded from participation in NCB.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB (and with appropriate
amendments for all NCB) for goods. However, no ICB is envisioned at this stage. The Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals (SRFP) would be used for all consulting assignments.
GAC may not use less competitive bidding and selection procedures only as an expedient to by-pass more
competitive methods or fraction large procurements into smaller ones solely to allow the use of less
competitive methods. A Project Operational Manual (OM) has been prepared which describes the
procurement procedures to be followed under the project, including the Bank's Guidance on Shopping.
Procurement Notices
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN Development
Business. The GPN would show ICB contracts- if any- and a list of expected consulting assignments, and
would be updated on a yearly basis. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required in UNDB for
contracts to be procured under ICB and consulting assignments estimated to cost above US$ 200,000, and
in the national press for NCB. Consultant contracts with an estimated cost of US$ 100,000 or more will
also be advertised in the national press prior to the preparation of the shortlist. Very small contracts will be
advertised either in the national press or by other practical means.
Procurement Capacity
The GAC secretariat has yet to be made operational and a procurement capacity assessment was, therefore,
not possible. Since other than one or two vehicles for project management, the project will not finance
vehicles, drugs, nor civil works, the Secretariat would only require one procurement specialist who is
- 36 -



familiar with Bank procurement guidelines and who will be contracted through an open competitive
process. Procurement capacity is needed mostly for the selection of consultant services and drafting and
management of their contracts, and for monitoring the procurement process for subprojects. Goods to be
purchased are minor, including a small number of computers for knowledge management (Component 3)
and possibly some minimal equipment for project management. Processing of these contracts is not likely to
cause delays as the GAC Secretariat can seek procurement support from specialists of ongoing
Bank-financed operations or the services of a procurement agent to be hired under the project. This would
be balanced with the presence of a strong financial management team. It is expected that the procurement
staff could work together in the same unit with the financial management team. The presence of a qualified
team, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness. Once staff have been selected, an
orientation workshop would be held. Topics to be covered include Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures.
Institutional Arrangements
The responsibility for procurement under the project will be with the GAC Secretariat. The Secretariat is
expected to process primarily contracts with NGOs and CBOs to finance subprojects and contracts for a
variety of consultant services to conduct Garfund's capacity building activities (Component 2), subproject
supervision, and Garfund's evaluation.
The GAC Secretariat will monitor the procurement workload and when required will use the above
mentioned procurement agent/or an individual to provide short term support on specific assignments such
as preparation of procurement plans, preparation of bidding documents and Requests for Proposals and
assistance in preparing evaluation reports
Procurement Plans
Only an indicative Global Procurement Plan (GPP) for the procurement of goods and selection of
consultants and training for project components I and 2 will be prepared because it is difficult to determine
the exact mix of goods and services, in particular for the subprojects (component 1) where procurement is
vet undetermined. Procurement planning will only be possible, at this point, for activities in the Knowledge
Management (Component 3) and Project Management and M&E Components (Component 4). As for
component 2 (Strengthening Public/Private Institutions for HIV/AIDS Control), it is likely that once project
implementation gets under way, some forecasting will be feasible.
The procurement plan for the first year will be based on the needs of the GAC Secretariat for
project management, including monitoring and evaluation, and Knowledge Management. Procurement
plans for subsequent years will only be indicative, based on subprojects submitted on each round and an
estimation of training needs. Where possible, a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) will be prepared for the
first year of the project showing contract packages, the estimated cost for each package, and the
procurement method and processing times till completion. When subproject proposals have been approved
by the GAC technical subcommittee, the GAC Secretariat will submit up-dated versions of the GPP, and
the annual DPPs.
PMRs
At the end of each quarter the GAC will send to IDA a Project Management Report which will include but
will not limited to the following information. (i) Financial Management Report (ii) Progress Monitoring
Report and (iii) Procurement and Subproject plans for the following six months. PMRs will be prepared
- 37 -



from the beginning of the project, but moving to PMR-based disbursement will not take place before the
first fourteen months of implementation and before a satisfactory assessment has been made that the
financial and procurement management systems meet IDA PMR requirements.
Goods, Vehicles and Equipment (USD l.Om)
The project would finance one or two vehicles, office equipment and supplies for the GAC Secretariat, and
computers for both project management and knowledge management. No ICB is expected under the
project. However, where goods and equipment to be purchased under the project could be grouped into
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more, they would be procured under ICB
procedures using Bank Standard Bidding Documents. To the extent possible and practicable, goods and
equipment to be purchased under the project would be combined into packages worth at least US$ 100,000
and procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contracts for goods estimated to cost between
US$30,000 and US$300,000 each would be procured through NCB, using procedures acceptable to IDA,
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent. Vehicles estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of National Shopping Procedures (NSP) using shopping procedures as described in
the Bank's Guidelines on Shopping Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be
grouped, or standard specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US$30,000 and not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$400,000, would be procured on the basis of national shopping
procedures as described in the Bank's Guidelines. The GAC secretariat will maintain records to advise IDA
prior to when these aggregate limits may be exceeded. If these goods are not available in the country,
intemational shopping procedures would be followed. Requests for such quotations will include a clear
description and quantity of the goods, requirements for delivery time, if they are not immediately available,
and the place of delivery.
Consulting Services/Training, Audits (US$ 4.5m)
As a rule, consultant services will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) or
Least Cost Selection (LCS) method if appropriate. For assignments up to US$ 100,000, the shortlist may
consist entirely of national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national consultants are
available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from
consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000 may be
contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. Auditors would be selected using the Least-Cost-Selection method.
Training programs and workshops, which are designed to familiarize entities conducting subprojects on
IDA procurement and financial reporting and to improve subproject management will be carried out on the
basis of approved semi-annual programs that will identify the general framework of training activities for
the following six months, including the nature of training/workshops, the number of trainees, and cost
estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with costs exceeding US$ 5,000 should be
identified within the semi-annual program; where the training cost exceeds US$ 15,000, the selection of the
training institution should be based on a competitive process preferably using a quality-based method of
selection. In the case of training on technical skills of entities (NGOs, CBOs etc) implementing subprojects,
needs will be initially difficult to forecast as the needs will vary with the type of subprojects being financed
and the capacity of the implementing entities. However, as project implementation proceeds, i.e., after the
first 12 months of implementation, those needs would be more easily estimated up-front and included in tie
semi-annual plans.
- 38 -



Subprojects (US$ 21.0m)
Entities proposing Subprojects, which are not expected to exceed US$100,000 per project, will handle their
own procurement. When subprojects selected for funding include significant procurement or selection of
consultants, an assessment will be made of the entity's ability to carry out procurement. In the case of
govemment entities, Ministries, Departments, District Assemblies (MDAs) are currently implementing
Bank Projects and have the basic knowledge in public procurement. In addition, the subproject application
package will include a write up on procurement procedures to be followed.
Procurement is expected to include small purchases such as supplies, such as video equipment, and other
products easily available in the local market through local shopping procedures as specified in the OM.
Entities will also contract technical assistance for very specific needs identified such as learning how to
manage people living with AIDS, how to prepare better educational material, etc. Items will be procured
under simplified procurement procedures similar to those applicable to social funds.
Arrangements for selecting and funding subproject proposals are detailed in Annexes 2 & 5. GAC will sign
a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with each MDA and a contract with each NGO/CBO whose
proposal is chosen for funding under the program. The MOU/Contract will detail the deliverables expected
from the MDA/NGO/CBO as well as the schedule of payments to be made by GAC in relation to the
deliverables. The OM will specify at what level these contracts would be signed and supervised. All
subproject proposals costing US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to IDA prior review.
The MOU/Contract will include an explicit statement that (i) proceeds of the fund will be used solely for
the intended purposes; (ii) any procurement of any goods, equipment, materials or services will be done in
accordance with good public procurement practice and in accordance with the thresholds and procedures in
the DCA and Table 5B below; (iii) The MDA/NGO/CBO will maintain proper accounting and
procurement records of all inputs for the implementing the subproject; (iv) The implementing entity shall at
all times exercise procurement in the best interest of the Client and any discounts or commissions obtained
by the entity in the exercise of such responsibility shall be for the account of the Client; and (v) The
MDA/NGO/CBO will permit independent auditors and or Bank staff to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the performance of the MOU/Contract.
During appraisal, IDA reviewed formats for inviting subproject proposals in national newspapers, MOUs
and sample Contracts prepared by GAC and has found them acceptable. Every six months GAC will
publish in at least one newspaper of nation circulation all subproject awards together with the names of the
beneficiaries.
IDA Review
With the exception of vehicles, all goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more will be subject
to IDA review of bidding documents including draft contract and technical specifications prior to inviting
bids, and IDA review of bid evaluation prior to contract award. Contracts for vehicles estimated to cost
more than US$ 50,000 will also be subject to prior review. All subproject proposals and contracts for
subprojects above US$ 100,000 will also be subject to IDA review prior to contract award. For subproject
contracts estimated to cost between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000, one subproject proposal and its
corresponding contract for each of windows A and B for each funding cycle will be subject to prior review.
In addition, one subproject proposal and contract will be reviewed for window C each funding cycle.
- 39 -



The TOR for all consulting assignments irrespective of value will be subject to IDA prior review. For
consultant contracts with firms costing US$ 100,000 or more, and US$ 50,000 or more in the case of
individuals, the draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA
prior to inviting proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals must be
cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the qualifying firms are opened and the negotiated contract
will require IDA no objection before the final version is signed. All procedures in Appendix I of the
Consultants Guidelines would apply. Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively
reviewed ex-post by the Bank during project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, district and community) will
be carried out through annual ex-post procurement audits and regular ad-hoc reviews. Such audits would:
(a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects were in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical
completion and price competitiveness of each contract in the selected representative sample; (c) review and
comment on contract administration and management issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d)
review capacity of participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify
improvements in the procurement process in the light of any identified deficiencies.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expodit ue Categ
1. Works                            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.50           0.50          0.00           1.00
(0.00)         (0.45)        (0.45)         (0.00)        (0.90)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           4.50          0.00           4.50
Consulting/Training and            (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.50)         (0.00)        (4.50)
Audits
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00          21.00          0.00          21.00
Subprojects                        (0.00)         (0.00)        (18.70)         (0.00)       (18.70)
Operating Costs                     0.00           0.00           1.30          0.00           1.30
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.90)         (0.00)        (0.90)
Total                            0.00           0.50          27.30           0.00         27.80
(0.00)         (0.45)        (24.55)        (0.00)        (25.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services. and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Figures in Goods includes vehicles and equipment.
- 40 -



Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
COasoftant                                    election   Mto
Servloe
--ture                                                                        NF - S  - - -   c  Total Cost;
A. Firms            2.20      0.00       0.00      0.20      0.30       0.00      0.00       2.70
_    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0o00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.12       0.60      0.00      0.72
(0.00)    (0.(00)    (0. 00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0,00)    (0.00)
Total   2.20      0.00       0.00      0.20      0.42       0.60      0.00       3.42
(0.00)  - (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)  L (0.00)
1 Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Ctedit.
- 41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
N!A
2. Goods                    >US$ 300,000                 ICB                 All contracts
Vehicles                    <US$ 30,000                Shopping                 None
>US$ 50,000               Shopping               All contracts
Other
US$ 30,000                 NCB                All contract above
US$ 300,000                                      US$100,000
3. Services                 >US$ 100,000        QCBS, LCS (UNDB and          All contracts
Consulting/Training                                National Advert)
US$ 50,000          QCBS/LCS/CQ/CV            All contracts with
US$ 100,000          (National Advert)     individual and first two
contracts with finn
First two contracts
'.cUS$5,000             LCS.CQ_CV
4. Subprojects              >US$100,000               See Note 1          All MOUs/Contracts
US$ 50,000                                   One grant agreement
US$  100,00                                under group C during each
funding cycle
<US$50,000
One grant agreement under
Group A and one grant
agreement under Group B,
during each funding cycle
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$2.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One everv six months (includes special
- 42 -



procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement supervision will be provided from the Ghana office. In addition to the supervision missions,
the Ghana office team will visit the project as needed, with a minimum of four visits during at least the first
year of implementation.
Note 1: All single sources consulting assigmnents and all TORs for consulting services irrespective of value are
subject to prior review
LCS (Least Cost Selection)
CQ (Selection based on Consultants Qualifications)
CV (Selection of Individual Consultants)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 43 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit of US$25.0 million would be disbursed over a period of
about four years. The project completion date would be December 31, 2004. IDA would
retroactively finance expenditures incurred up to twelve months prior to credit signing for setting
up the Secretariat's premises, including rent, purchase of office equipment and supplies, salaries of
key staff. and additional preparatory work required including the design and establishment of the
financial management system, up to an amount of US$1.5 million (equivalent to six percent of the
value of the credit). Given that the Secretariat is not fully established and there is at present no
financial management system, it is crucial that these activities get under way prior to effectiveness
as they are conditions of effectiveness.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ex  00::ti0444444000Apenditbugory  AmountJinVUS$mi lion    Financing Percentage
Goods                                       1.00                      100% foreign.
90% local
Consultant Services and Tranining           4.50                         100%
Subprojects                                 18.00                100% of arnount disbursed
Incremental Operational Costs               1.00                          90%
Unallocated                                 0.50                          90%
Total Project Costs                         25.00
Total                                      25.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications for goods with a contract value of US$100,000 or more, for consulting
services with a contract value of US$100,000 or more and for contracts with individuals for
US$50,000 or more, and for all subprojects or Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) above
US$100,000, would be supported by full documentation. Disbursement under contracts valued
below US$100,000 for goods, consultant firms, subprojects and MOUs, under US$50,000 for
individual consultants, and for other activities not undertaken under contract, would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenses (SOEs), for which supporting documentation would be maintained
by the GAC Secretariat and made available for periodic review by IDA.
Special account:
A Special Account would be established for the project in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
The authorized allocation to the SA would be US$2.5 million, or 10 percent of the credit amount.
Replenishment of the SA would be on the basis of the submission of Statements of Expenses
(SOEs). A plan to establish the necessary mechanisms to get the project FINMI ready by the end
of the first year of implementation has been prepared and agreed upon with the Government.
- 44 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Proje-t5Sc:heduleX-    -   7                       Pa nned                     A.tu-l
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    11
First Bank mission (identification)             08/20/2000                    08/20/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      10/22/2000                   10/22/2000
Negotiations                                     11/27/2000                   12/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ghana AIDS Commission
Preparation assistance:
BB funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Sandra Rosenhouse                 Task Team Leader
Francois Decaillet                Task Team Leader, Ghana HSPSP
Theresa Jones                     Ghana Program Coordinator, Social Fund Specialist
Evelyn Awittor                    Health Specialist, Ghana World Bank Office
Monica Bleboe                     Consultant, IEC Specialist
Eddie Addai                       Consultant, Health Specialist
Frederick Yankey                  Financial Management Specialist, Ghana World Bank Office
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist, Ghana World Bank Office
Mbuba Mbungu                      Sr. Procurement Specialist, Ghana World Bank Office
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti            Implementation Specialist, Ghana World Bank Office
Bachir SouhlalQuality Advisor     Jonathan Brown, Quality Advisor
Barbara T. Barbosa Machado        Language Program Assistant
Peer Reviewers: Wendy Rosenberry, Senior Health Specialist; Salim Habayeb, Lead Public Health
Specialist; Keith Hansen, Senior Economist
- 45 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operational Manual For GARFUND.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment, Frederick Yankey, October, 2000.
C. Other
The Response to HIV/AIDS in Ghana: Country Profile, UNAIDS, January 1999
Report of UNAIDS Partnership Team,
A National Strategic Plan for Responding to HIV/AIDS in Ghana: Draft Situation Analysis Report,
October 1999, Government of Ghana,
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS in Ghana, 2001-2005, September 2000, Government of Ghana
Ghana HIV/AIDS Response Analysis, June 2000, Ghana Health Service, and
Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices on AIDS, 1993, University of Ghana.
*Including electronic files
- 46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
15-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Arnount in US$ Millions         disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P000968       2001 Ghana                      AGRIC SERVICES                                       0.00     67.00       0.00      66.85       0.00       0.00
P000975        1996 Ghana                     BASIC EDUCATION                                      0.00     50.00        0.00     22.48      21.14       0.00
P040659        1999 Ghana                     COMMUNITY DEV.                                       0 00      5.00        0.00      4.98       1.27       0.00
P050616       2000 Ghana                      COMMUNITYWATER II                                    0.00     25.00       000       22.52      -1.73       0.00
P000948        1995 Ghana                     EDUC/VOC.TRNG                                        0.00      9.60       0.00       2.43       2.70       0.20
P040557       1999 Ghana                      ERSO I1                                            000      230.20        0,00     96.99      31.27       0.00
P000962        1995 Ghana                     FISHERIES                                           0o00       9.00        0.00      2.23       1.89       0.00
P000949        1998 Ghana                     HEALTH SCTR SJPPORT                                  0.00     35.00        0.00     15.91       2.07       0.00
P000957        1996 Ghana                     Highway Sector lnvesatment Program                   000     100.00        0.00     28.47      2403        0.00
P000936        1994 Ghana                     LOCAL GOVT DEV.                                      0.00     38.50        0.00      9.28       7.74       0.00
P000966        1995 Ghana                     MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                                 0.00     12.30        0,00      2.10       2.86       0.00
P000974        1999 Ghana                     NAT FUNC LIT PROG                                   0.00      32.00       0.00      30.46       5.34       0.00
P000946        1998 Ghana                     NATRESMANAGEMENT                                     0.00      9.30       0.00       7.23       7.44       0.00
P000943        1998 Ghana                     NON-BANKFININSAST                                    0.00     23.90        2.66     10.02      15.38       0.00
P045588       1997 Ghana                      PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                                  0.00     20.90       0.00      13.21      12.76       0.00
P050615        1999 Ghana                     PUBSECTOR MNGT.PROG                                  0.00     14.30        0.00     10.26       3.29       0.00
P042516       1996 Ghana                      PUBLIC ENTERPRISEiPR                                0.00      26.46       0.00      14.31      11.13       0.00
P069465       2000 Ghana                      RURALFINANCIALSERVICESPROJECT                        0.00      5.13        0.00      5.20       0.00       0.00
P000926        1995 Ghana                     THERMAL (P-VII)                                      0.00    175.60        0.00     34.52      40.24      39.53
P000970       1999 Ghana                      TRADEGATEVRAY&INV.                                   0.00     50.50       0.00      44.57       7.89       0.00
P050624       2000 Ghana                      URBAN S                                              0.00     10.83        0.00     10.68       0 00       0.00
P000973       1996 Ghana                      URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANrrATION                      0.00      71.00        0.00     31.73      35.66       0.00
P041150        1997 Ghana                     VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                               0.00     30.00        0.00      19.78       1.23      0.00
Total:        0.00     1051.51        2.66      508.41    233.60      39 73
- 47 -



GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1993               AEFAfariwaa                    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               AEFAlugan                      0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF CFL                        0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               AEFDupaul Wood                 0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.13    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF NCS                        0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.67    0.00
1997               AEF PTS                        0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00
1991               AEF Packrite                   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF PharmaCare                 0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Shangri-la                 1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.04    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Tacks Farms                0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00      0.00    0.00
1988/89/91/93      Bogosu                         1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1989/91/93         Cont Acceptances               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96            Ecobank- Ghana                 4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
GAGL                           0.00    0.00    3.26    0.00    0.00    0.00      3.26    0.00
1990/91/96         GHANAL                         0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44      0.00    0.00
1991               Ghana Leasing                  0.48    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.73      0.00    0.00
Hotel Inv. Ghana               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Wahome Steel                   0.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92
1989/92
TotalPortfolio:          9.20     1.17    4.24     0.00     5.10     1.17    4.24     0.0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               AEF Computer Sch                230.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995              AEF GHANA PACK                   360.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
1999              AEF Garden Court                1500.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
1999              AEF Japan Motors                1500.00     0.00       0.(0     0.00
2000               ELAC                              0.00      0.00    250.00      0.00
2000               GAGL IV-Restr                     0.00    538.04      0.00      0.00
2000               GMCC                              0.00      0.00    200.00      0.00
2000               Ghana Telecom                 40000.00      0.00      0.00  60000.00
2000               SSB                           10000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     53590.00    538.04    450.00  60000.00
- 48 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: AIDS Response Project (GARFUND)
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan       Low-
Ghana      Africa   incorne     Development dlamond'
1999
PoDulation. mid-vear(millions)                         18.9       642     2417                   Life expectancy
GNP oer canita [Atlas method. USSI                     390        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                        7 5       321       988
Averaae annual orowtb. 1993.99
PoDulation I%/)                                         2.6       2.6        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                          26        26         23      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate Ilatest vear available. 19934991                                capita
Povertv (% of onulation below national oovertv line)
Urban DoDulation (% of toal ooDulationl)                38         34        31
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                        60         50        60
Infant mortalitv (oer 1000 liVe births)                 65         92        77
Child maInutrtion (% of children under 5)               27         32        43                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (%  ofPooulation)        56        43        64
Illiteracv f% of oooulation aae 15+)                    30         39        39
Gross onmarv enrollment (% of school-aoe ooDulat/on)    79         78        96                   Ghana
Male                                                  U4         85       102              -   Low-income group
Female                                                74         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1983      1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                             4.0      5.2       7.5        7.8
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                  6 5      13.2      23 6      23 2
Exoorts of eoods and services/GDP             11.2     16.7      33.9      335                       Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                     6 6      5 6      10 7        6 2
Gross national savinos/GDP                     6 2      7 2       18 8      12 4
Current account balance/GDP                    1 0     -6 0       -4 7     -10 5     Domesbc
Interest Davments/GDP                          0.7      1.1        1.8       16        Stic             7Investment
Total debt/GDP                                31 9     64 7      82 9      810       Savings
Total debt servicelexDorts                     a 9     32 1      21 8      20 1
Present value of debtVGDP                                        53.8      50.7
Present value of debtexoorts                                    1561       151 7
Indebtedness
1979489  190949      1999      11999   1999-03
(averaae annual crowth)
GDP                                  2.0       4.2      4.7       4.4       51              Ghana        Low-income group
GNPDercaoita                         05        19       21        22        26
Exoorts of ooods and seMces          -0 3     10 8      8 4      12 8       7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Inv"tment and GDP I%)
t% of GDP)                                                                           23
Aariculture                                   60 0     49 0      36 0       35 6     20
Industrv                                     12.3      16.7      25.3      25.3    to
Manufactunno                                 8 7     10 0        9 0       8 9
Services                                     278       34 3      387       39.1       o
94          6    9r  7    959   99
Private consumotion                          83.1      84.5      78.9      82.9      10                 9
General oovernment consumrtion                10 3      9 8      10 3       10.8                    GDI           GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                11 2      24 3      46 7      50 5
1979489  198949       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports 1%)
(averaoe annual omwth)
Aoriculture                                    0 6      3 0       5.1        4 9     45
lndustrv                                       1 1      25        32         69      30
Manufactufno                                 1 6     -4 5        4 1       6 0
Services                                       4.5      5.4       6.0        2.2    1is
Private consumotion                            1 8      40        34        159     3 _
General aovernment consumotion                26        44       -125       112             9 5         as   07   99   so
Gross domestic investment                      0.6      3.7       9.0        4.7
Imoorts of ooods and services                 -1 8      9 3       2 3       12 0                 Exports     *Irmports
Gross national Droduct                         1 8      4 2       4 8        4 8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four kev incdlcators, in the countrv fin bold) comoared wvith its income-orouo averaae If data are missino the diamond wil
be incomolete
-49-



Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Donmeic pices
(% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prioes                                      25.2       19.3     12.4    to
Implicit GOP deflator                       37.9    28.3        16.0     140      20 i   -
Govemment 1fnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                              10.5    13.6      20.5      20.2            B4   r5   so   97    o    99
Current budget balance                       4.1      2.5       3.3       47                 G0P deflator    4 CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                               -5.3     -8.1      -6.0
TRADE
(US$ millions1979    1989                                      1998      1999     Export and Import levels (USS m il.)
Total exports (fob)                          913      808     2,091     2,099    *,oo
Cocoa                                         ..    408       622       550
Timber                                        ..     81        171      174    3,00*
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cif                           853    1087      3,167     3,556     200
Food                                         ..      42          .               , 000
Fuel and energy                             176     161       220       342
Capital goods                                .,    190          ..        ..
Exoort orioe index (1995=100)                 46       89        98        91           S3   i    es  go    7      98
Imoort once index (1995=1001                  26       94        88        90                  Exports     *Imporis
Termsof trade (1995=100)                     179       95       111       101
i3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      199       Currant account balance to GDP I%)
f(USS rnillionsl
Exports of goods and services               1,163     879     2,532     2,567      0
Imports of goods and services              1,061    1,278     3,491     3,865
Resource balance                             101    -399       -958    -1,298
Net income                                   -58    -118       -136      -138         II
Net current transfers                         -3      202       741       620
Current account balance                       41    .315       -353      -816    .12-
Financing items (net)                        -72      442       453       722
Changes in net reserves                       31    -127       -100        94     ;e 
Memo:
Reserves includino cold rUSs mi/ijonsl       401      436       508       446
C,onveminn rAtr. (DEC locaL/USSI              70    2700    2.314 0   2 647 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
197'9    1989     1998      1999
(US$ mi/lions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (USS nmill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,282    3.397     6,193     6,297
lORD                                        93      114        27       18                    G< 295  A 27
IDA                                        95    1,030     2,963     3,099
Total debt service                           104      285       560       522
IBRD                                        I 0      19         4        10
IDA                                          1        8        32       41        E:i1a97
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 B: 2,963
Official grants                             32      208       239       159
Official creditors                         101      275       349       126
Private creditors                           -6       54       -10       115
Foreign direct investment                   -3       15        56      203             o: 600
Portfolio equity                                      0        15       80                      c: 32
vVorld Bank program
Commitments                                 19      272        97      256      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               34      168       211      219    |B-IDA    D-Othermunilateral  F-Private
Principalrepayments                          3       11        17       28      C-IMF                      G-Shori-torn
Netfiows                                    31      157       195       191
Interest payments                            8       17        19       23
Net transfers                               23      141       175       168
Development Economics                                                                                              9/11/00
- 50-



IBRD 26553
3BURKINA FASO2                                                 Jw
-Tumu      tNavrongo0       B        /5SiI)                 G  H A N A
NGA\vUt !   CITIES AND TOWNS
Lowrc                  UP PER             Sndema
GOmbago              -  PRIMARY ROADS
\  ~  X   W E S T  \     <     \  >              \               0 DISTRICT CAPITALS
Nodowl                /        )                I         .     @ REGION CAPITALS
Walewal                A.~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- REGION BOUNDARIES
- INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
W                                                                                       10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
_-nk-        Eu \  a,S   0               Ao ongSokoeGushiegu
>. (  ~~~~~~ J           X  )  V                   SSn~~~~~~~~~boboot
ki ono                   n Ydil   I Cta
Enchi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
l           :     7 < Z nbzug:7~~~~~~~~~~Zazuu
a    umNORTHERN                                      A C C
*  J    0   0Dmongo  ;                                   2 <     0
4_~~~~~~a  see 52                                            COr ,   nindn ai  an ote         9onnt
\  \  X        |      '       g            4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bimbill < 41
C    O T E                                                                                     TOG o  o t  o .   r - _ . T O G O
I    dm  Agon~ 'I            GF Oi   G' ASnlogn                          N
Nkwnt       DE'EVBER 1994
./  > >         /  /BRO~~~NG-AHAFO           -      -
t) }     S  Kl~ntompoo/                                 , 
/   nch    X   >/ ~~~~~ X      O /   O~Kwome Dnnso       K 
Wenchio             Atebubuo   .0
j4~~~\KenyST~~     eco           rk     /    s                                          diebi r)7n
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~opn oh ?ome NRAl            Anoks   g1                     l       3  
t_ X W E S T ENkawi          u Prnso                                          (F)Ont d
0~~                 anWtatI               0Xln  ttfn   fsr ontts
Juabesint                                    P " TKR|t   u    FGN
-                2>                      1;                        oW                       ti~~uoi  i
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ DCME Wiws\94cie



