Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24195
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28540)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35.0 MILLION
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A COAL PROJECT
June 18, 2002
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tg)
Tg 1.00 = US$ 0.0009
US$ 1.00 = Tg.1102.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I     December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR           Accounts Receivables
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BJSC         Baganuur Joint Stock Company
CHP          Combined Heat and Power Plants
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
EA           Energy Authority
EMU          Environment Management-Unit
IAS          International Accounting Standards
JBIC         Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MTPY         Million tons per year
MID          Ministry of Infrastructure Department
MEGM         Ministry of Energy, Geology, and Mines
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
TA           Technical Assistance
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:  Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director:  Mohamnad Farhandi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Robert P. Taylor



MONGOLIA
MONGOLIA COAL PROJ.
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                27






Project ID: P035697                                      Project Name. MONGOLIA COAL PROJ.
Team Leader: Robert P. Taylor                            TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MONGOLIA COAL PROJ.                           L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28540
Country/Department: MONGOLIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/13/95                              Effective:                    12/18/96
Appraisal:  02/12/96                                MTR- 06/01/98              04/10/98
Approval:  05/07/96                               Closing: 12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: MONGOLIAN GOVERNMENT/BAGA NUUR MINE
Other Partners:  Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jamal-u-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                            Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Mohammad Farhandi                        Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:  Robert P. Taylor                         Robert P. Taylor
ICR Primary Author:  Robert P. Taylor; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome- S
Sustainability' L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to reverse the decline in Mongolia's coal production by increasing
sustainable annual production levels at the Baganuur mine to four million tons per year (Mtpy). Additional
objectives included Baganuur Joint Stock Company (BJSC) aiming to: (a) develop financial
self-sufficiency; (b) increase equipment productivity and improve efficiency; (c) operate as an independent



commercial company; and (d) get BJSC to operate in an environmentally acceptable manner over the long
term. These objectives were to be achieved through a combination of investment in mine rehabilitation, and
implementation of management restructuring and operational reform at BJSC.
The main objective of the project was important, but not well defined or articulated. The inherent objective
of the project was to reverse the decline in coal production and to address the country's growing inability to
meet its rising coal demand by expanding production levels at Baganuur on a sustainable basis. As project
implementation proceeded, it became clear that there was insufficient underlying demand to support the
production target of 4 million tons per year at Baganuur. This was formally recognized in PSRs and aide
memoires from October 1999. In November 2000, the mine's long-term production target was officially
revised to 3.5 million tons per year, with IDA's agreement, due to lower demand than originally
anticipated. In November 2001, it was agreed that Baganuur mine's new long-term mine plan should be
based on demand levels of 3.0-3.3 million tons over the next several years, rising to 3.5 million tons over
the long-term.
With hindsight, the development objective should have been more formally revised, when the mine's
production target was reduced, to its implicit objective to address Mongolia's growing inability to meet its
coal demand by increasing sustainable production levels at Baganuur.
The project was timely, appropriate, and very responsive to the needs of the Borrower. At the time,
Mongolia's energy sector was in a state of crisis, with chronic shortfalls in production and frequent supply
interruptions. Given the severe winter climate, this was of extreme concem. Following the withdrawal of
assistance from the Soviet Union in 1990, the donor community had provided emergency aid to forestall a
major breakdown in the country's coal-power-heat supply system. However, short-term fixes could not
resolve the industry's pervasive technical and managerial problems, and both the Government and donor
community recognized that more fundamental and lasting rehabilitation measures would be necessary
Accordingly, it was agreed between the intemational donor community and the Govemment in late 1994
that IDA would support the rehabilitation of the state owned Baganuur coal mine, producing 70% of the
country's coal, while the Government of Japan and the Asian Development Bank would support the
rehabilitation of the country's two largest combined heat and power plants (CHPs). This project was
developed to fulfill IDA's commitment. While the primary concem of IDA and the Govemment was to
implement the technical rehabilitation of the mine in order to ensure adequate and reliable coal supply for
the CHPs over the medium term, the IDA team expanded its scope and included additional objectives to try
to develop the coal mine into an independent, financially self-sufficient incorporated joint stock company--
the Baganuur Joint Stock Company (BJSC)--in order to ensure that the rehabilitation measures would be
commercially based, financially sound and as sustainable as possible.
All these objectives were consistent with IDA's June 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
focused on removing Mongolia's infrastructure bottlenecks. The project, IDA's first energy operation in
Mongolia, was part of a coordinated international effort to stabilize industrial production to meet the basic
needs of the country's urban economy and population. The project also supported completion of the
corporate restructuring of BJSC, internal reorganization of operations, conversion to and adoption of
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS), and implementation of improved systems to monitor operational
performance and improve cost control. In addition, in support of the Mongolia's CAS objectives to support
public enterprise reform and expansion of the role of the private sector, IDA provided support for the
implementation of Mongolia's first pilot case in the coal-power-heat system to transform a major enterprise
into a more commercially managed, independent and financially accountable business.
- 2 -



The project took into account lessons learned from previous IDA-assisted projects in Mongolia, such as
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (1991); Economic Transition Support Credit (1993); Transport
Rehabilitation Projects (1994); and from the Bank's extensive experience in other coal projects in other
countries. These lessons included: (i) the need for focused, medium-termn investments in technology
modernization, policy reforms and company restructuring to provide incentives for critical improvements
in productivity, maintenance, operations management and corporate accountability; and (ii) the importance
of institutional strengthening to achieve smooth project implementation.
The project was moderately risky and complex: First, the project was prepared and launched at a time
when there was already a serious problem of customers not paying their electricity and heating bills to
power plants, and the power plants in turn were delinquent on their payments to BJSC for purchasing coal.
Second, the process of implementing a new system of mine operation and corporate culture to work more
efficiently and to retrain the employees was a complex task for the mine management. Third, for the
financial and reform aspects, the project involved changing mine management system from Soviet style to
westemrn mining practices; and the ways of thinking of the management and the employees. Fourth,
reforming an enterprise in an unreformed sector itself was a complex task.
The project was demanding on the Borrower both from technical and reform perspectives. The
transformation of BJSC from a system using rail road waste stripping system to one using truck and
shovels, as well as improving the management by transforming a company governed by the ministry to an
independent commercial company controlled and directed by a Board and its shareholders and making it
financially self-sufficient, was new and very demanding. In addition, the two recurring problems of
mounting accounts receivables (A/R) and the low price of coal, which are discussed in detail in later part of
this report, made the project implementation more demanding.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As discussed under 3.1 above, the project objective should have been formally revised to reflect a defacto
revision during project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project's four components were reasonably related to achieving the objectives. Of the two
implementing agencies, namely BJSC and Ministry of Infrastructure Department (MID), BJSC was
institutionally very weak during identification of the project, but improved greatly, especially in financial
management, with the appointment of a capable Executive Director. MID had competent staff at the middle
level management throughout project implementation. Political instability, and frequent changes in senior
Government appointments in the middle of project implementation, however, resulted in difficulties in
project implementation.
Components included:
A. Mine Equipment and Materials
The mine rehabilitation program included the following investments in improved technology and mining
equipment:
- 3-



(a) introduction of twenty 85-ton haul trucks to replace the inefficient rail haulage system and the
replacement of twenty aging small capacity coal trucks with ten 40-ton coal trucks;
(b) introduction of a fleet of high capacity bulldozers to effectively handle overburden spoil dumps,
assist dragline operation on top of the coal seams, and to provide cleanup support to all shovel
operations on both overburden and coal benches;
(c) introduction of an additional support equipment to ensure efficient haul road construction and
maintenance and to improve general in-pit housekeeping.
(d) a major upgrading in maintenance workshop and warehouse facilities, and procurement of an
adequate stock of spare parts for existing Russian, Japanese, and American equipment fleets;
(e) completion of the mine dewatering and monitoring well development program, previously
discontinued due to lack of funds; and
(f) irnportation of urgently needed explosive initiation system consumables (caps, boosters and delay
mechanisms) to ensure effective overburden fragmentation, particularly blasting of permafrost
areas.
(B)    Coal Handling Plants
This included construction of new coal handling plant capacity on a turnkey basis to ensure a reliable 4.0
Mtpy supply of quality coal to customers. Coal was to be sized at 50mm or less to overcome coal handling
problems by customers (previous coal deliveries were sized at about 300 mm, with portions of supply even
in excess of that size).
(C)    Civil Works
Investment in civil works included: (a) construction of a 5 km access road to haul coal from the existing
Mountain Section 5 to the new coal handling plant; (b) modification and modemization of workshop
facilities to accommodate the new equipment fleet, particularly the 85-ton dump trucks; (c) a short rail line
addition; and (d) certain modifications to the existing coal handling facilities and heat plant.
(D)    Training and Technical Assistance
Training and technical assistance was a key aspect of the project. Components focused on in-countiy
training of Mongolian staff, combined with on-site technical assistance. Overseas training and study tours
to expose Mongolian staff to intemational practices were also included. Components included support for
BJSC's programs to improve mine efficiency, establish an environmental management function in BJSC,
and further develop the government's coal sub-sector development strategy:
(a) Mine Operations, Supervision and Maintenance. This component provided support to improve
equipment and labor productivity, equipment maintenance and availability, application of key
equipment to top priority tasks, and proper allocation of support or ancillary equipment. The
component included training and technical assistance to: (i) improve the capacity of BJSC's
corporate management to operation in a commercial, market setting; (ii) improve mine planning;
(iii) adjust mine operational procedures and practices to comply with the technological shift and
-4 -



modem practices; (iv) further develop and implement a new system of mine maintenance and
materials management; and (v) improve mine cost engineering.
(b) Environmental Management.   Training and technical assistance was provided for the
establishment of an Environmental Management Unit (EMU) at the mine, for implementing
BJSC's environmental management program. This included: (i) environmental management,
monitoring and reclamation; (ii) spoils dump construction and stability, spoil management and
drainage; (iii) hydrogeology; and (iv) occupational health and safety in mining.
(c) Cost and Financial Accounting Systems. The objective of this component was to develop BJSC's
accounting and financial reporting systems to better conform with international norms and the new
requirements of the Government, and to provide BJSC management with the information needed to
improve cost control. This component included design, development and operation of a new MIS
to meet BJSC's accounting and cost control needs.
(d) Coal Sector Strategy. Technical assistance was provided to MID for evaluation of the technical
and economic prospects of the Shive Ovoo and Tavan Tolgoi mines, and to assist MID to define its
future regulatory and policy role in the subsector.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. Since the project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there
is no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were
consistent with the CAS and the government priorities and met the critical needs of the economy and urban
population. Since the implementing agencies had developed the required administrative and technical
capacity, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's overriding objective.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in
Mongolia were considered and incorporated into the project design specifically:
(a) BJSC's ability to become financially self-sufficient could be undermined by delays in payments for
coal to BJSC or delays in coal price or fiscal reforms;
(b) BJSC would be unable to fully meet production and efficiency targets, thereby compromising the
project's benefits and BJSC's financial position, due to delays in equipment delivery, lack of
sufficient management and supervision reform at BJSC, failure to implement maintenance system
improvements, or inadequate training;
(c) BJSC would be unable to control unit operating costs due to insufficient supervision, poor
budgetary control or currency devaluations; and
(d) Institutional weaknesses would not enable BJSC to implement the project effectively or achieve
necessary efficiency improvements.
In order to mitigate the above risks which could affect BJSC's financial stability and solvency, the project's
design and implementation plan included a strong emphasis on measures such as: (i) employing
well-known and tested mining technology with a relatively simple mine plan and substantial training and
- 5-



technical assistance (TA) in operations management and supervision which would ensure that production
targets could be met and that productivity gains could be achieved; (ii) obtaining assurance from the
government on the implementation of necessary price reforms, income tax allowances in accordance with
IAS, and a policy of timely payment by State-owned consumers for coal deliveries; (iii) keeping
implementation of a substantial coal price increase as a condition of effectiveness; and (iv) ensuring
intensive Bank supervision during project implementation. In addition, risks of serious implementation
difficulties were to be minimized with a major program to continue the process of upgrading BJSC's
management and project implementation capacity through further training and technical assistance under
the project.
Risks identified under (a), (b), and (d) were in fact realized during project implementation, as BJSC
suffered from the Government's intermittent failures to implement price reforms and ensure payment for
coal shipped, and its dependence upon downstream unreformed energy companies. The formal assurances
obtained in the legal agreements conceming pricing and coal payments, adopted as measures to mitigate
those risks, proved to be critically important during project implementation as IDA sought redress of these
problems. The relevant legal assurances were emphasized in the formal and informal IDA-Borrower
relationship from the very beginning, and this proved essential later. The ICR accordingly finds the quality
at entry to be satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, although only marginally so. The
project succeeded in achieving most of its various objectives, as described below:
BJSC coal production and mine rehabilitation The rehabilitation of Baganuur mine, and its technological
transformation, was clearly successful. The mine succeeded in retiring the outdated Russian railroad over
burden removal system in favor of a modem mobile system, modernizing its mobile fleet, commissioning
modem and safe new coal handling facilities, and undertaking major intemal reforms to improve corporate
management and efficiency. Although the original production target of 4 million tons was not achieved,
and is not expected to be achieved in the near future, BJSC has been able to consistently meet coal demand,
and disruptions in coal supply to the economy and urban populations have been avoided. Factors
contributing to the softer coal demand included increasing efficiency in the country's power plants,
increasing power purchases from Russia, especially since 2000, and increasing competition from Shive
Ovoo mine and other smaller producers. Combined with the generally successful rehabilitation of
Mongolia's two largest CHPs by other donors, the combined international donor assistance effort
developed in 1994 has succeeded in stabilizing energy production in Mongolia, and averting the disruption
to the economy and urban people's livelihood from failures in the country's core coal-electricity-heat
supply system, and no longer represents a pressing concern for the medium-term.
Without the successful shift to a modern mobile overburden removal system, BJSC's coal production
would unquestionably have continued to fall sharply, endangering power and heat supply. Moreover,
continued attempts to operate the outdated, deteriorated and inflexible rail overburden removal system
would have resulted in substantially higher operating costs, and mounting requirements for major
investments in capital stock, including locomotives, which would have been prohibitively expensive,
inefficient and uneconomic. With the successful transformation to a more modem, economic and flexible
system, the mine is in a position for sustainable and more efficient long-term operations as a result of the
IDA project.
-6 -



However, the mine rehabilitation and production at BJSC did experience serious problems, especially in the
middle years of project implementation, due to financial stress. From late 1998 to late 2000, the
Government failed to meet its commitments to IDA to implement agreed increases in BJSC's coal price and
ensure that the its power plants made timely payment for the coal delivered to and consumed by them. This
hampered production, undermined productivity and caused liquidity problems which continue to plague the
company. Due to lack of cash payments for its coal, mining equipment was parked for periods, because of
lack of fuel or spare parts. Important major scheduled repairs could not be undertaken. The project was
therefore rated "Unsatisfactory" in meeting its development objective beginning in October 1999 in three
consecutive PSRs for this reason. When a new Government took power in August 2000, it quickly moved
to address the pricing problems, and to ensure that the power plants would pay for new coal shipments on a
timely basis. As a result, cash flow to BJSC improved, and the project development objective rating was
upgraded to "Satisfactory" in May 2001. It took time, however, during the first half of 2001, for BJSC to
begin to put major repair programs back on track and readjust to a more normal production regime. In
addition, longer term financial implications also remain (see section 6.1).
BJSC financial self-sufficiencv. This objective was partially achieved.  BJSC has clearly become a
financially independent company which receives no direct subsidies from the Government. This was not
the case when project implementation began. BJSC declared a small profit in 2001. BJSC remains
responsible for repayment of its loans to IDA and JBIC. Given BJSC's market power, the Government
continues to regulate BJSC's price, and, also as the owner of BJSC's main customers, Government policy
still remains important to BJSC's financial health, however.  BJSC's ability to sustain financial
self-sufficiency, therefore, is dependent upon Government actions to continue price adjustments, when
required in the future, to resolve outstanding debts from the power plants, and to enforce contractual
obligations for payment for coal shipped.
BJSC eguipment productivity and efficiency. Although improvements were made in many areas, BJSC
was not able to meet many of the equipment productivity performance indicators defined at project
appraisal, and performance has been disappointing. The cash shortage experienced during 1999-2000 was
a key factor contributing to low productivity, as regular operations were constrained.
BSJC operation as an independent commercial company. Achievement of this objective was highly
satisfactory. At the beginning of project preparation, Baganuur coal mine was effectively managed directly
by the Ministry of Energy, Geology and Mines (MEGM). Its restructuring as a joint-stock company in
1995 provided a basis for its independence. During the project implementation period, BJSC has
successfully undertaken a major internal reorganization.  Operations and maintenance department
responsibilities and accountabilities were reorganized, and a new preventive maintenance program installed.
Financial management was reorganized and greatly strengthened, with the implementation of a new modem
computerized  general ledger, fixed assets, receivables, trade creditors and financial management
information system using IAS, which is now routinely used. Departmental budgeting and cost accounting
has been introduced and adopted. Monthly cost reports are now generated and distributed throughout the
operation. Monthly meetings with department managers on actual cost performance compared to budgets
are held as both a learning and controlling mechanism.
BJSC environmental sustainability. With the implementation of its Environmental Management Program
under the project, BJSC has become the first mining company in Mongolia to adopt a serious
environmental program. BJSC has maintained a small Environmental Management Unit. Through
hydrological studies and continuous monitoring, it has been determined that mine dewatering has not
effected the nearby Baganuur Lake. The mine has operated the first mine land reclamation program in the
- 7-



country since April 1999; although this program suffered somewhat during the period of cash shortage,
BJSC remains committed to reclamation, at a pace at least equal to spoils creation. The mine has
implemented a dust suppression program, and continues monitoring for a wider variety of potential
pollutants in water discharges. Monthly work place inspection in all mine sections have been conducted in
accordance with the schedule and relevant corrective actions taken.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Bananuur Mine Rehabilitation (mining equipment and civil works). Baganuur mine's rehabilitation and
technical transformation was fully successful. The inflexible and high-operating-cost railway overburden
removal system was discarded in June 1998, in favor of the mobile truck removal system. The project
financed purchasing 20 dump trucks of 85-ton capacity, 7 Caterpillar bulldozers, loaders, drilling machines
and other mining equipment. For the improvement of operational reliability and productivity of existing
excavators, spare parts were purchased worth $5.8 million. 20-ton and 50-ton capacity cranes necessary
for the repair works of earth-removing excavators, 40-ton and 80-ton capacity auto-trailers, scrapers, truck
repair equipment and instruments were also purchased.
The project also financed a 7.2 km long new railway road and high-tension electric lines for two CHPs.
Repair Workshop of Railway Depot was changed into Truck Repair Workshop for the 85-ton capacity
dump trucks.
Delivery of the overburden removal trucks was done one year later than originally planned, as the
procurement package needed to be rebid. Major cost savings on the procurement of the trucks, however,
allowed additional mining equipment to be procured under the project, meeting unforeseen pressing needs.
Coal Handling Plants. Two modem coal handling plants were financed by JBIC with a throughput
capacity of 2 million tons per year each were successfully put into operation, substantially upgrading the
quality of Baganuur's coal for shipment, with a sizing of 100 mm or less (as opposed to original sizing
target of 50mm). The new plants also have reduced haulage distances, occupational safety hazards, and
maintenance expenditures. The first plant was commissioned in August 2001, while the second was
commissioned in March 2002. Commissioning of the JBIC-financed plants was delayed by over two years
due to issues concerning technical specifications and contract procurement.
Technical Assistance and Training: Technical assistance components of the project were very successful.
Over 50 engineers and specialists completed training courses, and 60 persons were trained by foreign
experts.
The Mine Operations, Supervision and Maintenance: TA was successfully completed in 1998,
providing critical assistance in the transformation of mine operations to the new overburden removal
system, and adoption of a wide range of more modem mine management and operation practices.
Particularly successful aspects included assistance in the reorganization of the mine, and a major
improvement in the equipment maintenance system at the mine, including adoption of preventive
maintenance programs.
The Cost and Financial Accounting Systems: TA also was successfully completed in 1998, with
excellent results. The TA included the establishment of a general ledger of accounts in accordance with
IAS, a new internal budgeting and accounting system and computerized network within BJSC, and a
mutually cost negating system for all departments and the company as a whole. Staff were successfully
trained, and the system has been used effectively by BJSC for four years.
- 8 -



The Environmental Management: TA provided training and assistance for BJSC's new
Environmental Management Unit Hydrogeology studies proved that mine dewatering had no connection
with the water levels of the nearby Baganuur Lake. BJSC continues its environmental monitoring and land
reclamation work, based on the training and assistance received.
TA -on Coal Sector Strategy provided to the MID included successful completion of: (a) a major
pre-feasibility study on development of the coal deposits at Tavan Tologoi, which, although not undertaken
by any investors yet, may prove highly useful as interest in such mineral deposits in the Gobi is once again
picking up; (b) an advisory report on the development of the Shive Ovoo mine; (c) technical assistance on
the role of the government in the coal sector, completed during 2000, and (d) assistance in 2001 for the
preparation of a new long-term mine plan for BJSC, as a key basis for assessing the long-term future
prospects and financial sustainability of the project, as discussed during a workshop sponsored in May
2002 by MID, BJSC and the Bank on the future of Baganurr Coal mine.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return
An ex-post financial and economic analysis was undertaken to reassess the revised economic benefit of
the project. The net present value and EIRR have been calculated on the basis of incremental cost and
benefit stream derived from the difference between the "without project" case that was established at the
time of appraisal and BJSC's latest projections based on the newly revised long-range mine plan. Costs
were appropriately adjusted for taxes and duties. With the exception of power, labor and diesel, all costs
were shadowed priced at the standard conversion factor of 0.9 used at the time of appraisal and were
applied to convert the revised financial cost into economic cost. The conversion factors for power, labor
and diesel were 1.4, 1.2 and 1.0 respectively. Economic benefits are estimated on the basis of the import
parity value of incremental production, valued at the short-run marginal cost of coal from the Kuzbaz
Basin in the Russian Federation (CIF) determined at the time of appraisal plus inland freight costs to
consumers, and adjusted for equivalent heat values, less the freight charges for delivery of coal from mine
mouth to the same consumers, and restated to 2002 terms. The methodology adapted is therefore consistent
with the one applied at appraisal and regarded as very conservative vis a vis intemationally traded coal of
equivalent caloric value.
The project yielded a positive expected incremental economic NPV of US$14.3 million, at 12% discount
rate and yielded an EIRR of 24% (although numerous changes in sign in the incremental cashflow make
this indicator somewhat unreliable).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The incremental NPV of the project is estimated to be US$ 13.1 million and financial rate of return is
estimated to be in the range of 23 %. The NPV have been carried out on the basis of incremental costs and
benefits. The major variables affecting the cash flows are, inter alia, the capital cost, operating cost, annual
production and the agreed selling price of coal. All projections were undertaken in real 2002 terms with the
actual results for 1996-2001 adjusted upward by the average G7 inflation index of 1.9% p.a.  The
economic and financial NPVs are estimated to be slightly higher than the expected values estimated at
appraisal due largely to operating cost improvements in the revised mining plan and elimination of the large
and fixed maintenance cost of the rail haulage system offsetting the lower production target of 3.5 million
ton of coal. While the investment in this project is financially and economically viable, it is clear,
however, that the long terrn sustainability of the company depends on factors beyond cost control and
gradual output increases.  Improvement in the accounts receivable position is fundamental to the
-9-



company's ability to fund the sizable equipment replacement schedule and implement the new mine plan
underlying these projections.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Satisfactory. The project had important institutional development impact on BJSC. As mentioned earlier,
BJSC has become more commercially oriented, and although still largely owned by the government, it has
achieved a high level of independence from the govenmment. It has implemented a successful financial
management system, including budgeting and cost reporting; developed an increasing sense of cost
consiousness; developed a more modem relationship with its Board of Directors; and learned to benefit
from the use of its independent financial auditors. The project also helped strengthen the technical and
administrative skills of BJSC staff, through various training programs given to equipment operators,
engineers, and supervisory and management staff.
The project was also instrumental for officials in the MID and other agencies to gain experience in project
management which will certainly provide further benefits in the future.
The new mine plan developed during 2001 helps to provide a road map to a sustainable future for BJSC.
In addition, the project also resulted in implementation of some of the recommendations of studies outside
of BJSC, such as those on Coal Sector Policy and Regulation, and Coal Quality Improvement for Shive
Ovoo.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political instability during a major part of project implementation in some ways hindered the project from
realizing its full potential. Within a period of four years from 1996 to 2000, Mongolia had four different
administrations, including one administration, which lasted only for two months. There was at times a lack
of continuity of senior officials responsible for the policy framework within which the energy and coal
mining sectors operate, resulting in uneven necessary support for the project. Consequently, BJSC's
operations were adversely impacted, and its financial position was weakened.
Difficult macroeconomic conditions, and the effects of two particularly harsh winters, created a difficult
economic environment for project implementation. A steep decline in the world price of copper in 1998
was one extemal factor which began the increasing program of arrears in payments for BJSC's coal, as the
Eredenet Copper Concern-by far the largest electricity consumer in the country--was unable to make
payments for electricity use, which in tum undermined the ability of the power plants to pay for BJSC's
coal.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's failure to meet its commitments in the Development Credit Agreement to ensure timely
payment from its power plants to BJSC for coal received, and to implement step-by-step increases in the
US dollar equivalent price of BJSC's coal, particularly during late 1998 to late 2000, had a significant
impact on BJSC's production, had a major impact on the coal mine's productivity and efficiency, and
served to undermine staff morale.
(i) Accounts Receivable. BJSC's mounting accounts receivable from its main power plant customers
caused a major cash crisis during late 1998 to late 2000, which had a negative impact on its
- 10 -



production and efficiency. The following table depicts the changes in BJSC's accounts receivable
over time, measured in the equivalent number of days of sales:
|   Year    | 1995   |  1996   |  1997    |  1998   |   1999   |  2000    |  2001
A/R Days     206       83        50        130        202        241       277
At the outset of the project, substantial progress was made in reducing BJSC's accounts
receivable, which fell to 50 days of sales equivalent at the end of 1997. During mid 1998,
payments for coal shipments began to fall seriously behind, and accounts receivable rose steadily.
Initially, one of the chief causes of the insufficient payment for coal shipments was the financial
distress of the Eredenet Copper Co., which was unable to pay its power bills at that time.
Increasingly, however, the root causes were the failure of the government to undertake necessary
periodic increases in the price of electricity and heat and poor collection of electricity and heat
bills, creating cash shortages in the government's power companies, and the government's failure
to enforce contracts between its power plants and BJSC.
The government had accepted responsibility at project negotiations for ensuring payment by its
power plants to BJSC, in order to reduce outstanding accounts receivable, and failed to fulfill this
commitmnent.
The current administration undertook measures to address BJSC's spiraling accounts receivable
soon after coming into power. On December 19, 2000, the government increased electricity price
by 14% and heating price by 36%. More modest, gradual price increases followed. This, together
with more stringent attention to enforcing the sales contracts between BJSC and the power plants,
has improved the record of payment for new coal shipments since October 2000. However, during
2001, there still was a modest increase in BJSC's accounts receivable.
When the project closed on December 31, 2001, BJSC's accounts receivable stood at Tg 22.1
billion (about $ 20 million), equivalent to 277 days of sales revenue. This past debt will need to be
addressed for the company to be financially healthy in the coming years (see Section 6.1).
(ii) Coal Price Adjustments. During project appraisal, IDA, the Government and BJSC together had
determined that a base price of $7.50/ton in 1995 US dollars (equivalent to $8.50/ton in year 2000
dollars) was necessary for BJSC to attain profitability. Consequently, agreement was reached on a
price of $6.80/ton for 1997 with a gradual increase in real terms of 25% to bring the price to a
level that would allow modest profits over 4 years. Steady progress towards this goal was made
until mid-1998. Since then, there was only one modest increase under the previous administration,
and the price was eroded by currency devaluation. The average coal price in 1999 was $6.83
equivalent/ton, compared to the $8.50 equivalent/ton required for long term self-sufficiency.
As a result, BJSC's financial position continued to deteriorate during 2000. The company incurred
a loss of US$5 million for 2000, and suffered a further erosion of its equity base to only $8.6
million (compared to about $26 million in 1998), after taking additional charges with respect to
foreign exchange losses on its debt obligations. At the end of 2000, BJSC's coal price was
increased by 15%, and gradual but steady increases followed during 2001. At the close of the
project, BJSC's coal price stood at $8.10/ton, and further price increases were expected in 2002.
However, with the decline in its equity, BJSC's debt to total capitalization ration reached 88% by
the end of 2001, and consequently, the company is unable to raise further borrowings over the
-1 -



short term for any liquidity or investment needs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
Project implementation was delayed by one year due to delay in the procurement of the key IDA-financed
mining equipment. This delay, caused by a need for reissuing the bidding documents a second time, caused
the 1997 production levels and equipment performance targets to be well below original targets.
Although difficult, considering the magnitude of the technology change, and the dire financial
circumstances, BJSC's productivity and efficiency performance could have been better than that achieved.
Lack of sufficient supervisors and inexperience among mine planning personnel in pit operations have been
important causes of low equipment productivity and availability. Measures to address existing deficiencies
were discussed in connection with the completion of the new mine plan in 2001, and BJSC has prepared
plans to attain better performance in the coming years, which were presented at the May 2002 workshop on
Baganuur coal mine's future prospects.'
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$61.3 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$61.9 million.
The lower project cost was mainly because of good procurement procedure, and competitive pricing.
Because of the of the savings derived from truck procurement BJSC could buy more equipment than
originally planned. Comparison of actual project costs and financing with estimates prepared at appraisal
are presented in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating
Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely, although only marginally so, due to financial
issues. BJSC's restructuring, rehabilitation and technical transformation to a purely truck and shovel
operation is clearly successful and results in lower operating cost, higher levels of production and lower
business risk. Particularly compared to the technically untenable without-project scenario of continued
reliance on the rail overburden removal system, the mine is now in a good technical position for long-term
sustainable production. BJSC has developed a new mine plan and associated financial forecast, which
shows a practical and achievable scenario of production and sales, operating cost control, and affordable
future capital replacement investments.
However, due largely to previous difficulties with deferred price increases, mounting receivables and
currency devaluations, BJSC's equity base has been severely eroded, is illiquid and has exhausted its
borrowing capacity. Its ability to sustain production at planned levels with the existing fleet of equipment
will therefore depend on its ability to generate sufficient internal cash resources to replace the mobile fleet
when it reaches the end of its natural life, maintain a systematic maintenance and repairs program, and
progressively improve its operational efficiencies and the level of equipment utilization. BJSC and
Government are aware of the magnitude of the problem. Especially important, the Government needs to
make good on its commitments to ensure that prices are regularly adjusted, payments for current sales are
made promptly, and all arrears are progressively paid down or transparently setoff against the company's
payables.
Despite BJSC's current financial weakness and lack of liquidity, the ICR regards the project to be
sustainable on balance given the following positive developments;
- 12 -



(a) Prices for BJSC's coal in the recent past have been adjusted significantly and are now almost in
line with agreed levels. Governnent is also committed to regular small adjustments to maintain this
price in real US$ terms at around these levels. At this level BJSC recorded a profit in 2001 and is
projected to maintain and improve upon this in the coming years;
(b) The major technical transformation required to make mine operations technically and economically
sustainable at BJSC has been completed, and now only maintenance of current basic operating
modes is required;
(c) The new mine plan adopted by BJSC in early 2002 provides for a gradual increase in production to
3.5 million tons and is based on performance parameters that are not particularly onerous and well
within the operational capability of BJSC management and its staff;
(d) Payments for current deliveries have improved in the last year and are likely to remain so given the
start of the Energy Project that is designed to reduce technical and non technical electricity losses
and improve billing and revenue collections of the electricity companies; and
(e) Settlement of outstanding balances are receiving attention at senior levels within the government
and is likely to be satisfactorily resolved over a reasonable period of time.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
BJSC, with assistance from MID and international consultants, completed a major new long-term mine
plan during late 2001 and early 2002. The mine plan is based on a long-term production target of 3.5 mtpy
with a gradual increase to that level over the next few years. Detailed associated operating cost and capital
investment estimates, combined in a new 15-year financial forecast, also were prepared. IDA's ICR team
considers the new mine plan and basic financial forecast to be reasonable and attainable.
The new long-term mine plan and associated financial forecast was discussed in detail at a major workshop
on BJSC's future on May 28, 2002, organized by MID, BJSC and IDA. All of the main stakeholders and
related government agencies participated in the workshop, where the future plan was well received. The
plan provides a reasonable and achievable program for the future sustainable operation of the mine.
In addition, through the Mongolia Energy Project, and other sector work, the Bank will continue its support
to MID and BJSC for ensuring project sustainability. Upon request from the government, the Bank could
also arrange some form of TA to BJSC.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. IDA's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project's identification was well organized and satisfactory. IDA took into account the
project's consistency with the government's development priorities and IDA's CAS. The Bank, which had a
harmonious team with a good skill mix, brought in the state of the art expertise into project design.
During preparation and appraisal, IDA took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, including procurement and financial
management, environmental, sociological, and consistency with the IDA's safeguard policies. The
availability of PHRD grant was very helpful in project preparation. At appraisal, IDA assessed the
project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower
during preparation and appraisal.
- 13 -



7 2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Since IDA
generally allocated sufficient budget resources, the project was adequately supervised and benefited greatly
from continuity of the team which included at least two staff throughout the entire project cycle. Over the
five years of project implementation, there were eleven supervision missions. Supervision teams included
energy specialist, mining engineer, environmental specialist, and financial analyst. IDA's client relationship
was very cordial and productive.
IDA played an active role in the supervision of the project implementation. Aide-Memoires were regularly
prepared and transmitted, which alerted the government to problems with project execution and suggested
remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with IDA procedures. The Form 590s and PSRs realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, IDA Bank was able to define concrete steps
and a timetable for putting the program on track. IDA paid sufficient attention to the project's likely
development impact. The quality of advice and the follow-up on advice and agreed actions was adequate.
Loan covenants were enforced, through linkage with the approval of a second proposed energy sector
operation. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation
Satisfactory. During the preparation, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the
objectives of the project and was an active partner in the development of the project design and all major
aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors.
Government officials and BJSC staff worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis,
with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. The government performance until mid-1998 was highly satisfactory. However, different
government administrations which were in power from late 1998 to July 2000 were in breach of key
covenants of the May 24, 1996 Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between Mongolia and the Bank for
the Coal Project. Included were the government's failure to meet its obligations in Section 4.02 of the
DCA, in particular: (a) failure to implement necessary increases in the BJSC's coal price, in accordance
with the plan agreed between IDA, the government and BJSC at project negotiations; and (b) failure to take
all necessary measures to reduce the average collection period for payment for coal supply by BJSC to the
Borrower's combined heat and power plants, in accordance with the plan agreed at project negotiations. In
addition to undermining BJSC's financial position and the ability of the project to meet its most basic
production and financial objections, the government's breach of the DCA on coal pricing had directly
caused BJSC's debt: equity ratio to exceed 70:30.
However, it is worth noting that the performance of the current administration which came into power in
August 2000 has been satisfactory. It remedied the lack of compliance with the key financial covenants,
and improved the financial and operating conditions at BJSC. On December 19, 2000, the government
-14 -



allowed the price for BJSC's coal to increase by 15%, as requested by the Bank. The government also took
measures to reduce BJSC's spiraling accounts receivable. With the 14% increase in electricity prices and
36% increase in heat prices which accompanied the coal price increase, it became possible for the power
plants to pay for new coal shipments.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. BJSC which was responsible for the implementation of major project components, performed
admirably well to meet the objectives to develop financial self-sufficiency and to operate as an independent
commercial company.   The company developed a sound plan and institutional arrangements for
environmentally sustainable operations.  It effectively completed the originally planned project
procurement, implemented the planned technological transformation of mining operations, and instituted a
wide range of institutional, financial management and operating practice reforms to improve
cost-effectiveness and commercialize its operations. Appropriate levels of review and approval were in
place, expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred and documentation was maintained
properly for an adequate period of time for the purpose of review.
Performance of MID which carried out the TA part of the project was satisfactory. It consisted of qualified
people with professional capacity, and its implementing unit was well organized and effective in dealing
with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project.
7.7 OverallBorrowerperformance:
Satisfactory. Balancing the satisfactory performance of all parties during project preparation, the
satisfactory performance of the Implementing Agency during implementation, and the unsatisfactory
performance of the Government during the middle years of project implementation,  the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* The project could have benefited from a more comprehensive approach to addressing the problems of
the energy sector, and particularly from a more deliberate and stronger connection to the downstream
energy companies. While the risks of reliance upon the downstream companies as BJSC's main
customers were understood from the beginning, perhaps development of a stronger IDA relationship
with those companies might have helped alleviate the coal payments arrears issues. Two possibilities
to achieve this might have been closer coordination between the international donors involved
(including ADB, JICA and IDA) on financial issues, and tighter operational linkages and closer timing
with respect to IDA's Energy Project, which is focusing on cash collections in the electricity
distribution companies and is expected to become effective in July 2002.
* The use of a numerical target as part of the project's main development objective proved to be
imprecise, compared to a more strategic development goal.  Some of the project's technical
performance indicators (indicating average productivity per unit of equipment) also proved less
meaningful and useful in project supervision, compared to more strategic indicators.
* The development of the Energy Project (the second IDA operation in Mongolia's energy sector) as part
of a broader energy assistance program, proved to be a very important factor in IDA's ability to
convince the government to address its failures to meet assurances during this first energy project. The
bulk of project disbursements had already been made by the time that problems become most serious.
- 15 -



However, IDA was able to make the approval of the Energy Project contingent upon corrections to the
Coal Project, and ultimately, the full program benefited.
*  At the outset of this project in Mongolia, where the energy sector was unreformed and there were
substantial political uncertainties, and where the Borrower was weak on many aspects of project
implementation, the IDA could complete the project in time mainly because the project design was
simple, the objective was focused, and there was only one principal beneficiary. Even though the basic
design was simple and straight forward, because of financial and management issues, and due to lack
of experience on the part of the Borrower, project implementation became complex.
* The appointment of an internationally experienced financial auditor by BJSC to audit the project and
corporate accounts, at IDA's initial insistence, proved to be particularly important and beneficial to
BJSC in this project. The auditor provided both useful annual technical advice and perspective on the
company's financial problems, and provided a powerful independent and objective assessment which
was useful in discussions between BJSC and policymakers.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following text was provided to the ICR mission by MID, incorporating inputs from BJSC:
a) Borrower's comment: The project was very timely for country's economy and fully adequate to the
objectives of the Energy Sector Development Strategies to support energy sector restructuring and
expansion of the role of private sector. The objectives of the project were to take necessary actions
to reverse the decline in coal production and increase efficiency and reliability of coal and energy
supply and these objectives were achieved.
The performances of the major objectives of project are satisfactory especially since coal supply
shortage to the power stations has been overcome and energy sector reliability has sufficiently
increased.
However the Government performances were unsatisfactory for the following reasons: (a) failure
to implement necessary adjustrnent in the BJSC's coal price; and (b) failure to take all necessary
measures to reduce the average collection period for payment for coal supply by BJSC.
b) Comments of Implementing Agency:   Regarding the project objectives, BJSC successfully
transformed its mining technology to modern mining practices in delivering modest mining
equipment, and established the financially independent commercial company with better
organizational structure and management in providing Technical Assistance under the project and
introduced effective accounting and cost tracking system which are very useful for cost
effectiveness and improvement of productivity.
Baganuur JSC greatly benefited from the Environmental Program implemented under the project
TA in establishing Environmental Management Unit and started its reclamation activities in the
Mongolian Mining history. Baganuur JSC's overall performances are satisfactory and as an
Implementing Agency has extended their full efforts of its in-house capacity except those which
were affected by outside factors relating to Government's duties.
- 16 -



c) Coal Sector's TA: Other component in project part is Coal Sector Strategy Technical assistance
and main objective of its TA is to provide assistance to establish Coal sector's medium term
strategy and to define Government's future regulatory and policy role in the coal sector. For those
objectives the following TA were conducted:
(1) the evaluation study of the technical and economic prospects of the Tavan Tolgoi mine;
(2) Quality Evaluation Study of the Shivee-Ovoo coal mine;
(3) improvement and evaluation of Coal Sector Restructuring; and
(4) revision and improvement of Baganuur Coal Mine's Mine Plan in the total amount of US$0.9
million.
World Bank Performance: We have to note that the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation
and appraisal as well as implementation of the project was very satisfactory. The project's identification
was well organized by the Bank. The Bank took into account the project's consistency with the
government's development priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
The project supervisions which were organized by the Bank played a very important role in the successful
implementation of the project. The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of project
implementation. Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the government to
problems with project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank
procedures.
Lessons Learned:
(a) The project should have taken into account the Energy Restructuring, which would have been able
to help the power stations' financial sustainability and in solving inter-linkages of arrears in the
sector.
(b) The project's outcome was entirely dependent on the energy sector. Had the energy sector
functioned its collections system properly for collecting AR from its customers for electricity and
heating in time, and paid its bills to BJSC without default, the financial situation and operational
performance of BJSC would have improved significantly.
(c) Political stability was an important factor for a project's success. Because of the political turmoil,
frequent change of administrations, and lack of government ownership of the project during the
implementation period, many of BJSC's positive achievements were nullified.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The following comments were provided to IDA by JBIC:
JBIC loan expired on May 23,2002. JBIC is going to evaluate this project in fiscal year 2004. It is
reported that annual production in 2001 was about 2.9 million tons. The project did not achieve its original
estimated coal production level, due to unforeseen factors, such as the explosion that occurred in April
2001, and political uncertainty, etc. However, the performance of implementing agency cannot be said as
unsatisfactory, since the delay of the project schedule has been caused mainly by those unforeseen factors.
Especially, we think accumulating accounts receivable problem and "cycle of debt" problem  as quite
serious and vital factor in termns of financial sustainability of this project. These problems cannot be
- 17 -



resolved by one company's effort itself. Therefore, both the government and the companies need to tackle
with these problems. We intend to assist Mongolian people's effort in governmental level as well as private
level to resolve these problems though policy dialogue with Mongolian side, and cooperation with other
donor agencies in context of on-going energy sector reform.
We appreciate the Bank's assistance to maximize the positive impact of the project, such as periodical
supervision. We believe the Bank facilitated the BJSC's effort to utilize loans from IDA and JBIC,
especially in terms of organizational reform and technical assistance. In addition, it is clear that Bank's
assistance for BJSC's corporate reform enhanced financial independency of BJSC.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
a |  InclrcatorlMatrlx   -- .Project,ed 1i last PSRz            m,ctu X,aVLatssi                  ate,s s,nt
1997   '98    '99   '00   '01         1997   '98    '99   '00    '01
BJSC COAL PRODUCTION:
Coal Production (million tons/year)   3.5    4 0   4 0   4 0    4.0          2 97   3 2   2 99   3 06  2 87
Overburden Removal (million tons/year)  9.0  10.0  10 0   9 6    9 6         8 12   10.9  12 55 10.79   9 66
CHP Througpout (million tons/year)            3 5   3 5   3.5    3 5                              3.0   3.0
BJSC FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT.
Coal Price (Current $/ton)             6.8    7 5   8 0   8.5    8.7         6 2    7.3   6.83   7 14   7.7
Accounts Receivable (days)             90     60    40    30     30           50    130    202    241   277
BJSC EQUIPMENT PRODUCTIVITY &
EFFICIENCY
Productivityof excavators             492    492   492  492     492          321.6 3127 2659    217.9 2196
Increases in the effective shrft operation  7.4  8.3  9 0  9 5    10          8.5    8 3   9 0    9 5   10
(hours)
Availability for service of excavators (%)  70  70   70   70     70           62    66     63     68   75
Operating BJSC as an independent      Program descnbed in SAR                Implemented
commercial company
Operating BJSC in an environmentally  Program described in SAR               Implemented
sustainable manner
Output Indicators:
I                                                                                       t,a, s,.. .. , ,.i,
l:n'dtator/Matrtx       -         "'roJete'd'in last.PSR  ,           '   Actuat,LatostEsUmite.
Not applicable
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Y,,  PAp,  q  ,  ..  S ,~pr,,a,is,al.,  Actual/Latest  Porce,nt,goof
, C, , . Estimate  ',..Estimate  Appra,sal
,. . ProjeLct Cost By Component  '  ,'    rnilii,n   1JS$mnillion  ,:___'_l____.
Mine Equipment, Materials                             36.60          36.20            98.9
Coal Handling Plant                                    8.10          12.60           155.6
Civil Works                                            1.50            1.50           100
Training and Technical Assistance                      2.00           3.40            170
Import Duties/Sales Taxes                              5.40           5.40            100
Coal Sector TA                                         1.10           1.10            100
Miscellaneous                                                         1.10
Total Baseline Cost                                   54.70          61.30
Physical Contingencies                               3.11
Price Contingencies                                  2.60
Total Project Costs              60.41
Interest during construction    1.50    _
Total Financing Required              61.91           61.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure C, Peg,                    roscIrementaMethod            .        T      Cost
Ewpenditure Category          NCB          Other'
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          1.60         1.60
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      26.40         0.00          9.80         19.30        55.50
(23.70)       (0.00)        (8.00)        (0.00)       (31.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          3.30          0.00         3.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (3.30)        (0.00)       (3.30)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      26.40          0.00         13.10        20.90         60.40
(23.70)       (0.00)        (11.30)       (0.00)       (35.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E*pend' 'r 'at'go'y"IBp0rocurement Methodd         :                   T     Cost
,N'CB'       Other.,                            L
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00          1.50          1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        20.20          0.00           8.60          20.00        48.80
(20.20)        (0.00)         (8.60)        (0.00)        (28.80)
3. Services                     3.13           0.00           0.00          1.37          4.50
(3.13)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.13)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           1.10          5.40          6.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (I. I 0)       (0.00)        (I. I 0)
Total                        23.33          0.00           9.70          28.27         61.30
(23.33)        (0.00)         (9.70)        (0.00)        (33.03)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.~~~~~~~~ .                                                , ''-; ' K'i  Percentage of ApprCaisal
. Cbnponent  .         Appraisal Estimate-  '      Actia4Iaest Fstate       "
-          Bank      Go     -    oP.      ki        G-oFit    CoF.    BaF nk   ot. 'ioF.
Mine Equipment,          28.70               7.40      28.80                7.40    100.3         100.0
Materials
Coal Handling Plant                 1.90     6.20                 1.40      11.20           73.7  180.6
Civil Works                         1.30     0.20                 1.30      0.20           100.0  100.0
Training and Technical   2.00                 1.70      2.30                1.10    115.0          64.7
Assistance
Import Duties/Sales Taxes           5.40                          5.40                     100.0
Physical Contingencies   2.10       1.10                0.80                        38.1    0.0
Price Contingencies       1.10     0.20                 0.30                        27.3    0.0
Coal Sector TA            1.10                          1.10                        100.0
Incremental Working                 1.50                                                    0.0
CapitalIDC
TOTAL                    35.00     11.40     15.50     33.30      8.10      19.90   95.1    71.1  128.4
- 21-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
BAGANUUR JOINT STOCK COMPANY
INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT STREAM, 1995-2014
(In Millions of Constant 2002 USS Terms)
1996  1997   1998  1999  2000   2001  2002  2003   2004  2005   2006  2007   2008  2009   2010  2011  2012   2013  2014
OVERBURDEN REMOVAL (00Ds bcm)                        22    3 4    1 7   0 6   2 6   4 7    4 7   4 1    4 2   3 6   4 4    4 3   3 6    3 5   3 6   3 6    3 7
COALPRODUCTION(000Wstons)                             05    06    04     05    05    05     06    06     07    10     10    10     10    10    10     10    10
SALES(000Wstons)                                      05    0.6   04     05    05    05     06    06     07    10     10    10     10    10    10     10    10
NET-BACK1MPORT PRICE PARTY (USS/lon)                  89     9     9      9    8 9    89    89    8 9    89    8 9    8 9   8 9   8 9    89    8 9    89    8 9
SALESREVENUE                                         4.4    5 0   3.3    44    4A    44     5.3   5.3    6.2   8.9   8.9    89    89     89    8.9   8.9    8.9
WAGESANDSOCIALCHARGE                                 (08)  (12)  (08)   (07)  (03)   (01)   04    06     07    08     09    t0     12    13    14     15    16
SPARE PARTS                                           12    2 0   18     3 4   12    23     24    2.2    18    16     17    18    12     12    12     12    12
ELECTRICrrY                                          (0 2)  (0 0)  (0 5)  (0 7)  (10)  (0 S)  (0 4)  (0 5)  (0 6)  (0 7)  (0 7)  (0 7)  (0 8)  (0 8)  (0 8)  (0 8)  (0 8)
DIESELFUEL                                            01    13    24     26    26    34     33    30     29    26     28    26    25     25    25     25    25
HEATING                                               05    03    01    (0 0)  00   (0 3)  ( 3)  (0 3)  (0 3)  00   00     01    00     01    01    03     01
EXPLOSIVES                                           (01)  (01)   (04)  (0.2)  (02)  (00)  (00)  (00)   (01)  (02)  (02)   (02)  (02)   (02)  (02)   (02)  (02)
RAILWAY MAINTENANCE                                  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)  (2 0)
OTHER                                                 25    01     11    02   (02)   04    (02)   07     06    05     07    07    07     07    07    07     07
COSTOFSALES                                           1.3   04    17     25    0.1   3.1    3.0   3.7    3.0   2.7   3.2    33    2.6    2.7   29    30     3.1
WORKING CAPITAL                            01     07    (0 1)  01    01    (0 3)  0.2          00          01     0 3
CAPITALCOST                         146    99     17    20     41
REPLACEMENTCOST                     (16)  (62)   (10)   47    (I5)   18   (290) (164)  (88)  (40)    86    (I5)   35    120  (119)   18    96     88    (03)
CAPITAL COST                            13.0   3.8   1.5    6.6   2.8    1.8  (29.3) (16.2)  (8.8)  (4.0)  8.6  (1.4)  3.8  12.0  (11.9)  1.8  9 6   8.8   (0.3)
TOTAL CASH COSTS                        13.0   3.8    L8    7.0   4.5    4.3  (29.2) (13.2)  (5.8)  (0.3)  11.6  1.3  7.1  15.3   (9.3)  4.6  125    11.8   2.8
TOTAL INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS         (13.0)  (3.8)  1.6  (2.0)  (1.2)  0.1  33.7   17 6  11.1   5.6   (5.4)  7.6    1.8   (6.4)  I82   4.3  (3.6)  (2 9)  6.1
Economi Rate of Retorn                 24 2%
Net Present Value of Beneflt           14 3 USS Mfilors
Net Present Value of Total Cost         14 5 USS MDlhon
Nrt Present Value of Beneflis (Coao      3 2 Ton (1.000)
AIC                                      4 5 Stton Col
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Perforrnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
March/95                    6    1 Energy Specialist, I Financial
Analyst, I Engineer, 3
Consultants
June/95                     8    2 Energy Specialists, I Financial
Analyst, I Engineer, 4
Consultants
Nov/95                      7    2 Energy Specialists, I Financial
Analyst, I Engineer,
3Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/96                    8    2 Energy Specialists, I
Financial Analyst, I
Engineer, 3 Consultants, I
Legal
Supervision
Nov/96 1/                    3   2 Energy Specialists, I            S             S
Engineer
Jun/97                       2   1 Energy Specialist, I Engineer    S            S
Nov/97                       3   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S             S
Analyst, I Engineer
May/98                       3   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S             S
Analyst, I Engineer
Nov/98                       2   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S             S
Analyst
May/99                       3   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S            S
Analyst, I Consultant
October/99                   2   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S            U
Analyst
May/00                       2   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S            U
Analyst
September/00                 3   2 Energy Specialists, I Financial  S            U
Analyst
May/01                       2   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S            S
Analyst
Dec./01                      2   1 Energy Specialist, I Financial   S            S
Analyst
ICR
May/02                      3     1 Energy Specialist, I
Financial Analyst, I
consultant
1/ SPN mission aide memoire in file. No PSR update.
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              94.3                      495.13
Appraisal/Negotiation                   26.6                       99.25
Supervision                             85.3                     472.25
ICR                                      9.0                        35.3
Total                                  215.2                     1101.93
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
OI Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
EL Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
L Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
EL Environmental                       O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
OL Gender                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM         O N  * NA
L Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   * N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
D Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
OI Supervision                                      OHS OS       OfU   OHU
OI Overall                                          OHS O S      O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
FL Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated March 15, 2002; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Mongolia: Coal Project dated April 9, 1996 (Report No. 15322-MOG).
- 27 -






Report No.:       24195
Type:    ICR



