Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2854 MOG
                            Project  Agreement
                              (Coal Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     and
                        BAGANUUR JOINT STOCK COMPANY
                             Dated May 24, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2854 MOG
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 24 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BAGANUUR JOINT STOCK COMPANY (BJSC).
      WHEREAS:   (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Mongolia (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,800,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that BJSC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BJSC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BJSC on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS:  BJSC, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
                             ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a)  BJSC declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the BJSC Parts of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, mining and environmental practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the BJSC Parts of the Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Association and BJSC shall otherwise agree, BJSC
shall carry out the BJSC Parts of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a)  BJSC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the BJSC Parts of the Project.
      (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, BJSC shall:
           (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Association, and furnish to the Association not later than
               six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date
               as may be agreed for this purpose between BJSC and the
               Association, a plan for the future operation of the BJSC
               Parts of the Project; and
          (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with BJSC on said plan.
      Section 2.04. BJSC shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BJSC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) BJSC shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
BJSC Parts of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)  BJSC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the BJSC
Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BJSC of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of BJSC
      Section 3.01. (a) BJSC shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering,
mining and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      (b)  To that end, BJSC shall ensure that any program of reduction in
the numbers of such staff shall be implemented according to principles
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  3
      Section 3.02.  BJSC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial, mining and environmental
practices.
      Section 3.03.  BJSC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04.  BJSC shall:
      (a)  not later than April 30 of each year, beginning 1997, prepare
and furnish to the Association for comment an updated rolling five year
business plan, which plan shall include BJSC's investment program,
production plan and projected financial statements for the period,
reflecting BJSC's progress in carrying out its business plan during the
preceding calendar year; and
      (b)  thereafter, implement said business plan as revised to take
account of the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) BJSC shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)  BJSC shall:
           (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end of each
                such year:
                (A)  certified copies of its financial statements for
                     such year as so audited; and
                (B)  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                     scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                     have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial statements
                as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
                from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   BJSC shall revalue its assets regularly in accordance with
international accounting standards and in compliance with the Depreciation
Legislation.
      Section 4.02.  BJSC shall take all measures within its power to
ensure that the average collection period for payments for coal delivered
shall be progressively reduced from its current level of 200 days to 30
days in accordance with a plan and timetable acceptable to the Association.
      Section 4.03.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BJSC shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 2000, total revenues equivalent to not less than
the sum of its:
           (i) total operating expenses; and
Page  4
          (ii) interest and other charges on debt.
      (b)  Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years, BJSC shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by BJSC and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year
and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its
completion.
      (c)  If any such review shows that BJSC would not meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) for BJSC's fiscal years covered by such
review, BJSC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices)
in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BJSC shall not
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of BJSC for the fiscal year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.6 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements of BJSC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of BJSC,
including the debt to be incurred.
      (e)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BJSC shall not
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to
equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.
      (f)  For purposes of this Section 4.03:
           (i) The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating
               revenues and net non-operating income.
          (ii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
               sources related to operations.
         (iii) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related to
                    operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (i)
                    above.
          (iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
               related to operations, including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
               provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a
               rate acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest
               and other charges on debt.
           (v) The average current gross value of BJSC's fixed assets in
               operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of
               the gross value of BJSC's fixed assets in operation at the
               beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
               time to time in accordance with sound and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
               Association.
          (vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
               any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vii) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of BJSC maturing by
               its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
               originally incurred.
        (viii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument
Page  5
                    providing for such debt or for the modification of its
                    terms of payment on the date of such contract, agree-
                    ment or instrument; and
               (B)  under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                    providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
          (ix) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues for all sources related to
                    operations adjusted to take account of BJSC's prices
                    in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
                    though they were not in effect during the twelve-
                    month period to which such revenues relate and net
                    non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes
                    and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                    for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
                    interest and other charges on debt.
           (x) The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired
               paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of BJSC not
               allocated to cover specific liabilities.
          (xi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
               shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
               exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
               such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
               such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
               a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
                                   ARTICLE V
                          Effective Date; Termination;
                          Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BJSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
           (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                terminate in accordance with its terms; or
           (ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify BJSC of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                       Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
Page  6
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable Address:                          Telex:
            INDEVAS                                 248423 (MCI), or
            Washington, D.C.                         64145 (MCI)
      For BJSC:
           Baganuur District, Ulaanbaatar
           Mongolia
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of BJSC  may be taken or executed by the General Director of BJSC
or such other person or persons as said General Director may designate in
writing, and BJSC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                        BAGANUUR JOINT STOCK COMPANY
                        By /s/ J. Choinkhor
                                              Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE 1
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:    General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 as revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  7
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
      (a)  Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
      bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
      (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
      Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
      territory of the Borrower.
      (c)      Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
      cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
      accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
      paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International  Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
2.    Direct Contracting
      Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and
costing $7,600,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract to be procured on the basis of
International Shopping in accordance with Part C.1 of this schedule
costing more than $150,000 and each contract to be procured on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding or Direct Contracting in accordance
with Parts B and C.2 of this Schedule, respectively, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Page  8
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to:
      (a)  contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
      (b)  contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:
           (i)  the terms of reference for such contracts;
          (ii)  single-source selection of consulting firms;
         (iii)  assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
                determined by the Association;
          (iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
                firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
                or above; or
           (v)  amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
                consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
                equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
A.    Monitoring
1.    BJSC shall:
      (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the BJSC Parts of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, within one month following
June 30 and December 31 of each calendar year, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the BJSC Parts of the Project during the preceding six
months and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the BJSC Parts of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the six months following such date;
      (c)  review with the Association, within two weeks following the
submission of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section,
or at such later date as the Association shall request, said report, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the BJSC Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
Page  9
and the Association views on the matter; and
      (d)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Borrower, a mid-term report, not later
than April 1, 1998, for consolidation in the report to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement, integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the BJSC Parts
of the Project from the inception of the Project, and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the BJSC
Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
B.    Implementation of the BJSC Parts of the Project
1.    BJSC shall carry out the BJSC Parts of the Project in accordance
with an action plan and timetable acceptable to the Association.
2.    BJSC shall carry out the Environmental Management Program in a
manner satisfactory to the Association and shall furnish any revision of
said Program to the Association for prior approval.
