Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22868
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40640; TF-34224)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
LITHUANIA
FOR AN
ENERGY EFFICIENCY/HOUSING PILOT PROJECT
3/4/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 28, 2001)
Currency Unit = Litas (LT)
LT 1 = US$ 0.25
US$ I = LT 3.99
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHA    -   Association of Homeowners' Associations
HOAs -     Homeowners Associations
HUDF -     Housing and Urban Development Foundation
IFI    -   Intemational Financial Institution
MCUD -     Ministry of Construction and Urban Development
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
SFH    -   Single Family Homes
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:    Sumter Lee Travers
Task Team Leader:    Gailius J. Draugelis



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LITHUANIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY/HOUSING PILOT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                31
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                     32
Annex 9. Cofinancier's Contribution                                                  45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iProject ID: P035163                                     Project Name: ENERGY EFFIC/HOUSING
Team Leader: Gailius J. Draugelis                        TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 4, 2002
1. Project Data
Naine: ENERGY EFFIC/HOUSING                         L/C/TFNuwnber: SCL-40640; TF-34224
Count)y/Department: LITHUANIA                                          Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development; UY - Other
Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/03/1995                            Effective: 11/05/1996         11/05/1996
Appraisal:  01/01/1996                               MTR: 05/25/1998           05/25/1998
Approval: 07/11/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Lithuania/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:  Danish Ministry of Housing and Urban Development; Netherlands Ministry of
Foreign Affairs
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Alanager:    Michael F. Carter                        Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Sumter Lee Travers                       Thomas Blinkhorn
Team Leader at ICR:  Gailius J. Draugelis                     Mats Andersson
ICR Primamy Author:  Gailius J. Draugelis; Peter D.
Ellis
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Developnment Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performnance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project (EEHPP) were to: (i) support private



initiative in improving residential energy efficiency; (ii) support public initiative in improving energy
efficiency in schools; and (iii) support the implementation of the Borrower's policies with respect to the
privatization of housing and enable increased private initiative in housing maintenance in general. The
project was designed to: (a) promote and facilitate energy efficiency rehabilitation of residential buildings,
by providing loans for technically and economically attractive packages of measures which are affordable
to a broad range of citizens; (b) promote private initiative in housing and energy efficiency by supporting
the organization of homeowners into functioning associations able to take charge of their buildings and
housing maintenance functions; (c) support municipalities in the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools
for demonstration purposes; (d) develop the use of private energy consultants for housing retrofits; and (e)
introduce the commercial banking sector to the concept of long-term lending for housing and housing
improvements.
The project was demanding for the borrower, but its objectives were clearly defined and relevant to the
country's policy on the promotion of residential thermal energy efficiency and fostering private initiatives in
property management. While Lithuania privatized nearly 90 percent of residential housing units by 1995,
its new homeowners faced obligations of ownership that previously were taken care of by the Govemment
for over 50 years. These obligations, for exarnple of paying household expenditures for energy, including
space heating, water and other utilities as well as the capital costs of maintenance and renovation,
comprised a significant and increasing portion of household income. At appraisal energy bills absorbed
about 11 percent of monthly income. According to a survey conducted for the Bank's Vilnius District
Heating Project in Vilnius, the average bill for rents and municipal services comprised 50 percent of
monthly income for 36 percent of respondents and about one-third for another 39 percent, and district heat
alone comprised approximately 11 percent of monthly income in 1999. In particular the impact on
household expenditures of the upward adjustment of energy prices to market levels was made more severe
by the problem of the energy inefficient housing stock in Lithuania. The new approaches introduced by the
project asked to a certain extent for a leap of faith of people, whose belief in a better future had been
eroded by an extended period of economic hardship. At the beginning of the project, the country was
barely returning to a growth path from a severe contraction that saw GDP contract by about 6 percent in
1991, 21 percent in 1992, 16 percent in 1993 and almost 10 percent in 1994. Several major banks
collapsed in a general banking crisis in 1995, and by May 1996 16 of the 27 banks licensed in Lithuania
were under suspension or facing bankruptcy. The comprehensive design of the project, however, helped the
borrower overcome early institutional weaknesses, incorporating lessons learned throughout
implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of EEHPP were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of: (a) Part A - credit for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation, with incentives
for homeowners to encourage participation; (b) Part B - energy efficiency renovation of schools in
municipalities; and (c) institutional development and strengthening through technical assistance designed to:
(i) facilitate project implementation, including setting up advisory centers for homeowners and HOAs, and
(ii) support further policy reform in demand side energy use and the energy and housing sectors in general.
The components were satisfactorily designed to achieve the project's objectives and the borrower's
administrative and financial management capacity were taken into consideration. Likewise, the Bank had
limited experience with housing and energy efficiency in ECA at the time and it was unclear what
institutional and financial mechanisms as well as energy investments would be most successful in
-2 -



Lithuania. The decision to make this project a pilot operation, therefore, was highly appropriate.
3.4 Rev,ised Components:
The project design was not formally revised during implementation, but the project significantly reduced
the amount of loan funds available to homeowners associations by 26% and increased the amount available
for schools by 76%. The reason for this reallocation was the concern over the initial low demand for loans
from HOAs and the proven demand and success of the schools renovation component. The project did
reallocate $100,000 of unspent funds from consulting services to HOA loans after the introduction of the
up to 30 % grant element markedly increased demand towards the end of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was a QAG (Quality Assurance Group) assessment of supervision that provided an overall
satisfactory rating and found focus on development objectives highly satisfactory in FY2000.
The ICR rates the quality at entry of the project as fully satisfactory. Lessons from test activities
undertaken by the borrower prior to appraisal helped to shape the final design of the project components.
Some important actions to be taken were left as conditions of effectiveness, namely the signing of an
implementation agreement between the responsible ministry and the implementation agency, the
confirmation of operating procedures, and staffing of certain positions within the implementation agency.
However, the effectiveness conditions were met in a timely fashion and did not significantly affect the
implementation of the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achiev ement of objective:
The overall project as a demonstration and pilot effort was fully satisfactory. Although interest from
homeowners' associations was initially slow in developing, the project's institutional development and
physical implementation were satisfactory.  Despite frequent changes in the Government, and
implementation delays regarding, first, the Participating Financial Institution and, second, the introduction
of the grant element, Government initiatives reinforced project development objectives, particularly towards
the end of the project. Finally, the project's learning process was highly satisfactory. The project
implementation unit absorbed the lessons learned and readily adjusted operations accordingly. However,
the key monitoring and evaluation activities undertaken at the mid-term review could have been delayed so
that they could include results from a larger sample of beneficiaries.
Part A (loans to homeowners and homeowners associations) was highly successful in testing and having an
impact upon the legal standing of homeowners associations, thereby strengthening their role in
community-driven management of housing. Amendments made to the Law on Homeowners Associations in
2000 streamlined residential community decision making and strengthened the HOA mechanism as a viable
altemative to public sector housing administration. The project also helped the Government to creatively
use a part of its existing heat subsidies to pay for a portion of energy efficiency investments owed by low
income households. This temporary, targeted use of existing subsidies removed barriers for low income
families to accept the financial obligations which they were unwilling to take given their fragile income
prospects. Finally, the Government drafted an outline for improving Government housing assistance
programs which it has asked the Bank to support in a follow-on operation.
The promotion of private initiative in housing renovation was satisfactory, though its impact was limited by
the combination of a slow uptake of HOA loans and the time constraint in which the project operated. On
the one hand, the Government's support for energy retrofitting of multi-family housing has successfully
- 3 -



encouraged households to invest in housing renewal which generated financial benefits. On the other hand,
the slow uptake of Part A limited its ability to capitalize on growing HOA interest in the final year of the
implementation period. A larger, follow-on project may help to develop a critical mass needed to have a
larger national impact -- of the 726 HOAs that registered interest with the project, nearly 30 percent (207
HOAs) were serviced during the project's implementation period. Also, 4,300 HOAs out of a total of
45,000 multi-apartment buildings were converted mainly from former cooperatives; few buildings
established HOAs where no formal cooperative structure previously existed. Likewise, the project had
mixed results in the promotion of private maintenance for which legislative changes show promise, but
have yet to translate into broad-based reform.
The outcome of Part A had a limited impact on the expansion of commercial lending to the sector due
mainly to the underdeveloped market for such borrowing. The design of the project did not meet the
strategic interests of commercial banks, which were recovering from a major banking crisis in 1995 and
appear to have seen no advantage for being an agent for Government lending. The psychological barriers
to putting up one's home at risk, particularly for common space investments, and distrust of banks in
general remained strong throughout the project. This was particularly evident by the lack of interest in
loans by single family homeowners and single apartment owners (only one flat owner took a loan) who
were required to mortgage their home as collateral even though the social assessment at appraisal indicated
that single family homeowners paid on average 60 percent more for heating than their counterparts in
apartment buildings. Also, until recently, the prudential requirements of potential lenders and their own
limited access to sufficiently long term funding prevented banks from providing long term local currency
loans at attractive rates. Finally, the Government's assistance to the project (through a fixed interest rate, an
energy subsidy for low income persons, VAT exemption, and a budgetary grant element equivalent to up to
30 percent of the subloan amount) appears to have been necessary for demonstration effects. However, the
lack of budgetary funds to sustain this assistance program and the provision of Government budgetary
support in the first place increased the perceived market risk for lenders.
The demonstration effect of loans for schools renovation was highly satisfactory as the Government in late
2000 embarked on a larger program of energy efficiency renovation in schools based largely on the results
of the project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The design was appropriate for all three components. There were no macroeconomic policy objectives
included in the project. The project satisfactorily brought forward success stories and identified gaps in the
mechanisms and institutions that were supported by the Government to promote private initiative in the
maintenance and administration of the newly privatized housing stock. The project introduced a process
that helped to reorient Government programs from a centrally planned to a more demand driven,
community based approach -- it brought investment in housing more in line with consumer preferences. It
advanced the politically difficult agenda of increased private initiative in housing maintenance through
policy dialogue supported by project outcomes. Finally, the project demonstrated improvements in energy
efficiency. An evaluation of each project component is provided below.
(a) Part A - Loans for Residential Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation (projected US$15.1 million; revised
after reallocation to US$8.3 million; actual US$8.5 million).
*   Part A was able to service 207 HOAs and 25 SFHs with a total investment of US$8.5 million, meeting
its revised investment targets. The average size of investment increased to $40,955 in 2000-2001 from
$20,426 in 1997-1998, correlating strongly with the introduction of the grant element and improved
- 4 -



marketing with real-life examples in the project. The increase in average project size, however, further
reduced the number of beneficiaries that could be reached during implementation.
*   Advisory services to homeowners took longer than expected to develop an effective outreach program,
but eventually met or exceeded expectations at appraisal in terms of their effectiveness in delivering
loans: (a) the ratio of HOAs advised to loans signed (34 percent) exceeded expectations at project
inception (29 percent); and (b) the ratio of buildings assessed (full energy audit) to loans signed on
average was 69 percent, compared to a projected 65 percent.
*   The loan was fully committed for this component, though disbursements lagged until the end of the
project. The drag on disbursements was due to a number of operational factors: (a) slow initial demand
for loans from HOAs; (b) lack of interest from commercial banks; (c) an unexpected take-over of the
single participating financial institution (Hermis Bank by Vilniaus Bankas, the largest private bank)
caused a delay in processing the component for the new bank to familiarize itself with the project; (d) a
decision by the Ministry of Finance not to open a Special Account. This forced the Ministry to find
budgetary resources to advance to the project only to be reimbursed after eligible expenditures were
made; (e) residual amounts of loan proceeds were kept by HOAs without penalty (no commitment
charges on the subloans) thereby holding up potential funding for new investments.
(b) Part B - Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation of Schools (projected US$2.3 million; revised after
reallocation to US$5.9 million; actual US$5.9 million).
*   Part B met revised investment estimates and reached a total of 26,745 pupils, 78 percent higher than
the original estimate of 15,000 students. The per-student beneficiary costs rose to US$ 221 from US$
153, or 44 percent higher than projected at appraisal.
*   Procurement under Part B was difficult due to the lack of experience of municipalities and the PIU with
Bank procurement procedures. In addition, the procurement plan expanded significantly where 6 out of
12 municipalities were able to undertake a larger scope of investments due to savings realized from
lower-than-expected prices obtained through competitive procurement.
(c) Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (projected US$2.9 million; actual US$4.10
million).
*   Organizational support for homeowners and homeowners associations through the establishment of
advisory centers in five major urban areas was highly satisfactory. Technical assistance provided by
Denmark and the Netherlands to support the Advisory Centers and training of energy consultants was
well timed and targeted. Danish supported Advisory Centers in Vilnius and Kaunas, the two largest
cities, were set up by May 1997 and three more centers were opened by the end of 1997 in other major
urban areas.   Dutch assistance trained over 150 engineers within the first three years of
implementation, of which about 20 were contracted to perform services under the project (for free
energy audits and follow up technical supervision). The division of labor appears to have been well
coordinated and devised. While a great majority of technical support, particularly at the beginning of
the project, was provided by energy engineers, the Advisory Centers showed initiative and motivation
to address social barriers related to organizing HOAs and helping promote the benefits of the project.
*   The HUDF moved very quickly since effectiveness in November 1996 to develop a comprehensive
implementation structure and launch an aggressive public information campaign. It distributed over
700 brochures to HOAs, developed a series of ten television features and generated registered interest
- 5 -



of 28 HOAs within the first three months of project implementation.  During the course of
implementation, the HUDF learned and adjusted its process to address the slow progress of Part A of
the project. In the second half of the first year of implementation, the HUDF moved to simplify
operational procedures, reduce interest rates, modify communication strategies and work closely with
Advisory Centers to better target its message to beneficiaries. HUDF support to municipalities in
procurement matters was fully satisfactory. It introduced municipalities to the discipline of well
planned and transparent procurement based on the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents.
*   Technical engineering advice provided to homeowners and their associations, as well as training
provided to the local consulting industry on energy audits and investments, was excellent. The
combination of formal training and on-the-job assistance developed a pool of consultants who have
since organized into the Lithuanian Association of Energy Consultants. Though not perfect, technical
work was rated satisfactory by the end of the project.
*   Technical and social monitoring were well designed but were executed before a larger sample of HOAs
and schools implemented their investments. Funds ran out for additional systematic monitoring by the
end of the project and the Government refused to use loan funds (or budget funds in place of loan
financing) for consulting assignments that could have improved the scope of the lessons learned from
the project.
*   Assistance to commercial banks to help evaluate energy efficiency investments did not have the
expected impact, partially due to a lack of interest by banks as a whole in the sector. The participating
financial institutions (Hermis Bankas, and later Vilniaus Bankas) spent very little resources, it appears,
in technical evaluations or supervision depending mostly on the HUDF for support in this area.
*   The policy study subcomponent was satisfactory. Three policy studies out of three projected were
submitted to the Govemment. Some of the recommendations from the studies or through dialogue with
the task team were implemented during the project. Among these were: (i) amendments to the HOA
law that mandated membership, streamlined decision making and defned common property rights; (ii)
recategorization of HOAs to as non-governmental organizations, rather than corporations, thereby
removing a tax disincentive; (iii) allowing the use of targeted heat subsidies to low income persons for
the repayment of investments in energy efficiency using an institutionalized means test; and (iv)
adoption of a Housing Concept Outline that proposed new measures in social housing, housing finance,
construction and energy efficiency.
*   The record on facilitating private property maintenance is somewhat mixed. The political difficulties
with breaking up the monopoly of municipal maintenance companies were difficult to predict at
appraisal and appear to be more formidable than expected at that time. However, the institutional
linkages and technical assistance could have been stronger in this area, given its importance to the
objectives of the project. For example, the consultants provided on a long term basis to the HIUDF had
mainly an engineering background. The TA could have had a community/condominium housing expert
strengthen the PIU's capacity to incorporate lessons learned from the studies into a broader agenda.
This is particularly relevant since the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development, the main
Govemment sponsor of the project, was dissolved in mid-stream of project implementation and housing
policy responsibilities were further disaggregated among the remaining ministries. Despite these
constraints, the component did facilitate some initial positive steps. The adoption of legislation
introducing the concept of separating maintenance from building administration (building
administrators, if appointed by the municipality, are required to procure competitively maintenance
services) were concepts that were drawn largely from lessons learned in this project and policy
- 6 -



recommendations from the study.
4.3 Net Present Valte/Economic rate of return:
The project produced an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 8.6%. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) projected an EIRR of 25.9%, which evaluated energy savings from the perspective of the economy
as a whole as they occur in the reduction of the economy's consumption of imported fuels. The SAR
assumed that homeowners would choose rehabilitation measures with short gestations and high rates of
return, corresponding to reduced energy consumption for the economy as a whole. However, many
households used part of their energy efficiency gains to increase their comfort (temperature) in their homes,
realizing lower-than-expected reductions in energy consumption. Surveys showed that many households
choosing to invest had some objectives unrelated to energy efficiency. In particular, they had a backlog of
foregone maintenance on roofs, doors, and windows, repairs on which were driven more by concern for the
structural integrity of the housing rather than energy savings. Investments in housing renewal were allowed
under the project's operational procedures and were appropriate given the objectives of the project. The
value of this benefit was not calculated in the SAR, despite the stated importance of this benefit to project
objectives. During the first half of the project, the demand for loans was sluggish and in 1999 the
government introduced a subsidy of up to 30% of capital expenditures in order to stimulate investments not
only in energy efficiency but also in housing renewal. As a result of the sizeable subsidy that the
government provided and the lower-than-expected energy savings, the project's EIRR was lower than that
expected in the SAR. The methodology of the economic analysis is described in greater detail in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project produced a financial internal rate of return (FIRR) to participating households of 12.1%. The
FIRR was calculated by taking into account the exemption of VAT for 90% of the household investment
costs and by netting out the grant received by households. In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the main
benefit of the project was measured solely in terrns of reductions in the amount of energy consumed, which
was expected to result from the investments done by households and schools. However, calculating the
financial savings to the users measured only by the value of energy consumption reduced would be
misleading, as homeowners and municipalities (for schools renovation) made decisions to pursue
investments with longer payback periods (e.g. a roof) that contribute partly to energy efficiency, but also
lengthen the productive life of the asset, a benefit that is difficult to quantify due to lack of data in the
country. (See Lessons Learned.) For the purposes of the ICR, the amount of energy saved also accounted
for the fact that end-users were able to attain higher levels of temperature (comfort) due to the investments
they made, but at a relative cost that was effectively lower than if they never did the investment. This
comfort-adjusted energy consumption presents a more accurate picture of the savings that accrued to
end-users. The SAR assumes that end-users started out at room temperatures that were optimal, when in
fact the social assessment survey done prior to the project's start revealed that many individuals considered
their apartments to be cold, even though many were using additional sources of heating. It is important to
note that the SAR does attribute the difficulties of capturing these additional benefits to the outcome of an
FIRR that was higher than the projected EIRR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
A separate component on institutional strengthening and technical assistance was included in the project
and is evaluated in section 4.2 of this ICR. The following is a supplementary evaluation of key
institutional participants in the project.
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Institutional strengthening of the project coordination unit was excellent
- 7-



in terms of the social and operational aspects of the project. The HUDF was the nerve center of the
project, incorporating lessons learned into project implementation, coordinating and supporting activities of
advisory centers, supporting municipalities in the development of schools renovation investments and
disseminating information to a wider local and later international audience. The HUDF would have
benefited from stronger support in financial issues, thereby increasing its capacity to support banks, on
technical issues, helping it to ramp up earlier in the project its technical and procurement capacity to a level
it reached by the end of the project, and on policy issues as mentioned in section 4.2 of this ICR.
Advisory Centers (ACs). The early establishment of the Advisory Centers allowed their staff to gain
valuable experience and learn lessons that helped to improve the project during implementation rather than
at the end of the project. The ACs were a well disciplined and coordinated branch network which was key
to the successful implementation of the project on a national scale. However, the institutional linkages
between associations of Homeowners Associations or other locally based constituencies and the Advisory
Centers did not develop as well as expected at appraisal. Also, the effectiveness of the ACs to organize
homeowners into forming associations was also limited, only 15 percent of multiapartment buildings have
formed HOAs, the majority of which were former cooperatives. Stronger linkages may have mitigated the
concern expressed by the project team and the Danish authorities over the sustainability of the investments
made in the Advisory Centers. As Danish financing was reduced on a declining scale, the advisory centers
started to reduce staff and capacity. The HUDF eventually incorporated the advisory centers into its
structure and later spun them off as a legally separate NGO called "Housing Advisory Agency" that is
expected to provide fee based services, such as training of HOA chairpersons, on property management and
other housing issues.
Energy Consultants. A clear victory for the project is the development of a pool of trained energy
consultants. 193 individual consultants were trained of which about 20 were given an opportunity to work
on the project. While the number of participating consultants is low, the ratio of consultants relative to the
number of loans (254) and buildings renovated (289) is acceptable. These consultants formed the
Lithuanian Association of Energy Consultants during the final year of project implementation, a strong
indicator of an established constituency that in great part exists as a result of this project. These
consultants are now positioned to compete for new business in the sector and support new programs in
energy efficiency, helping to sustain the momentum created by the project in the market.
Commercial Banks. The lack of interest from commercial banks was a clear disappointment. The design
of the project did not meet the commercial and strategic interests of Lithuania's nascent commercial
banking sector. On the one hand, the commercial banks were starting to get back on their feet after a major
banking crisis in 1995 and were growing their commercial lending business as a primary strategic
objective, leaving retail and household lending as a secondary objective. On the other hand, the transaction
costs involved in evaluating credit risk and supervising the investments were too high given the retums.
Without putting up capital of their own, commercial banks were not very interested in acting as paying
agents for the fees offered by the project.
Homeowners Associations (HOAs). While only about 3 percent of existing HOAs participated in the
project, member households who chose to take a loan as HOAs indicated a stronger appreciation for the
role of an HOA as private property administrators after the investment. Where they did exist, HOAs
proved to be a viable altemative to public property maintenance and administration. A broader discussion
on HOAs is provided in the Sustainability chapter of this ICR.
Single Family Homeowners (SFAs). Very little data was collected for this segment of the market.
-8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the direct control of the government or implementing agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While Government commitment remained strong throughout the project, the Government delayed certain
operational decisions that would have facilitated implementation. First and foremost, the Government
decided to begin the pilot effort without a matching grant, but when it decided to provide a matching grant
of up to 30% the Government delayed implementing this decision for over a year. The wait-and-see
strategy for the grant was prudent, and consistent with the learning approach of the pilot project. Over
eighty percent of total commitments to HOAs were made after the introduction of the grant in February
1999. Given this positive response to the grant, an earlier introduction of the grant would have accelerated
implementation. Second, the Government lacked follow through on improving consolidation of accounting
reports for the project, a recommendation first noted in the 1998 audit. This was due in large part to a
division of labor between the project implementation unit and the Ministry of Finance where the former was
responsible for technical quality control and reporting to the Bank and the latter managed disbursements.
The Government agreed to pass on disbursement management to the implementing agency, but did not
follow through. The transfer likely would have helped avoid recurring errors in reconciliation. Third, the
Government did not finalize an agreement with a second participatory financial institution that would have
broadened homeowner access to funds. Fourth, the Ministry of Finance delayed implementing a cabinet
decision in September 2000 to make funds available from the project's reflows for new loans to HOAs. It
appears that re-flows were already disbursed for new subloans to HOAs under the project. (The MOF
opted for withdrawals on a reimburseable basis, rather than opening a special account to finance initial
investments.) This decision restricted the total envelope of funds available to HOAs at the end of the
project when demand started to increase.
The dialogue on housing policy was made more difficult by institutional changes in the Government. The
Ministry of Construction and Urban Development, the main catalyst of the project, was dissolved. In May
1998 the project implementation unit was transferred to the Ministry of Finance, while the housing policy
unit was transferred to the Ministry of Environment.
Delays in the passage of amendments to the legal environment governing HOAs until June 2000 also
hindered implementation. The amendments streamlined decision making, separated administration from
maintenance of publicly administered buildings, mandated membership in an HOA once it was established
(this in turn was struck down by the Constitutional Court six months later), and established HOAs as non
profit organizations thereby reducing their tax burden from a corporate marginal rate of 29 percent to 5
percent.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The initially weak technical, administrative and financial management capacity of the HUDF was
compensated by the outstanding commitment of the staff, including its Managing Director. The capacity of
the unit rapidly increased with assistance from a Danish implementation consultant and the other technical
assistance from Demnark and the Netherlands. The unit also benefited from intensive supervision provided
by the Bank task team particularly at the beginning of the project. By 1998, the HUDF had established
itself as the project nerve center, having good relations with the advisory centers, incorporating lessons
leamed into project implementation and adequately disseminating information. The HUDF worked hard at
-9-



learning to be client responsive, a deficiency identified early in implementation, and now is regarded by
participating HOAs and municipalities as a reliable information resource and center for technical
excellence. It is regarded among Government institutions as an expert resource on housing and energy
efficiency issues. However, some the issues with its technical supervision and financial management
persisted. The HUDF relied too heavily on the Bank for review of technical proposals and on procurement
issues which caused some delays. This resolved itself in the latter half of the project as the HUDF gained
experience and confidence. Likewise, the maintenance of reconciled accounting records was less than
satisfactory, appearing consistently in the management letters of the auditors since 1998.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no cost overruns of Part A or B of the project; however, technical assistance from Denmark
was increased to sustain the Advisory Centers due to a slow demand for Part A loans from homeowners
associations. Even with a year's delay in its adoption by the Government, the up-front grant helped to
rapidly increase commitments and significantly reduce the possibility of longer delays in disbursement.
Also, Part B benefited from the six month extension. Five municipalities held loan balances totaling
US$772,000 because they had signed loan agreements that exceeded the contract prices procured within six
months of the original Closing Date of the project. The savings from these parts indicates less of a
dramatic shift in input costs and more of an overestimated budget, reflecting a need for more experience in
the energy consulting industry. Likewise, the HUDF could have provided stronger technical input during
the review stages helping to upgrade consultant's information on prices obtained for previous work under
the project. The project took six months longer to close than originally planned, closing in June 30, 2001.
Part A of the project was rated unsatisfactory during the mid term review in June 1998 and subsequently
was upgraded to satisfactory by June 30, 1999, mainly due to the year's delay in the Government providing
the energy efficiency grant.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for ststainabiliti r ating:
Project Objective (i) Support private initiative in improving residential energy efficiency
The project made investments that have produced demonstrable benefits in (i) more efficient space heating
and (ii) the renewal of important household and public assets, extending their productive life. The
investments introduced building level improvements that increased consumers' control of heat consumption,
empowering homeowners and municipalities to make decisions about consuming space heating based on
individual choice and ability to pay.
Yet, at current income levels, the financing mechanism piloted to support private initiative in residential
energy efficiency is unlikely to be sustainable without a grant element. Given the initial starting point, the
Government's decision to introduce a grant element, together with its other incentives noted earlier, helped
to overcome substantial barriers to entry. The lack of a stronger role for private maintenance companies
was identified by the HUDF Managing Director as the single largest barrier to forming HOAs. The lack of
progress by municipal governments to allow for an even playing field between municipally-owned and
private maintenance companies had a significant impact on project progress. Alytus city municipality, a
city of 77,000 persons, created conditions for private maintenance early in project implementation. It ranks
second in HOA investments per city inhabitant (Litas 21) above Vilnius, the capital city, (Litas 18) and
Panevezys (Litas 10). A significant social barrier, as mentioned before, was the lack of trust of banks. It
should be mentioned, also, that banks at that time were less accustomed to customer-orientation and lacked
- 10 -



capacity in their branch network (this in fact caused serious constraints on the project initially as persons
had to travel to Vilnius to apply for a loan through the bank).
If the project focused solely on energy savings as the objective, the analysis suggests that the investments
should have been limited to those which yield a higher probability for energy savings. The low economic
internal rate of return of the project, when measured purely in energy savings terms, suggests that the
barriers discussed in this ICR continued to outweigh energy savings benefits of the investments. The
financial internal rate of return suggests that the grant element was required to make returns on their
investment attractive to homeowners as measured in terms of the energy savings benefits.
The use of energy efficiency investments for the purposes of furthering institutional development reforms in
housing as piloted by the project showed the difficulties in calibrating the appropriate level of subsidy
needed, albeit temporary, given the lack of quantifiable benefits in housing renewal and institutional
development generated by this project. These benefits are not included in the rate of return calculations;
therefore, they are underestimated in the analysis. Nonetheless, the financial instrument, as used for energy
savings purposes only, is unlikely to be sustainable without changes to the investment selection criteria and
an increase in people's incomes. (See Paragraphs 4.3 - 4.4 and Annex 3 for more details on economic and
financial analysis.)
Project Objectives (ii) Support public initiative in improving energy efficiency in schools; and (iii)
support the implementation of the Borrower's policies with respect to the privatization of housing and
enable increased private initiative in housing maintenance in general.
While the pilot project as such has had a limited impact on the national economy in terms of a reduction in
energy consumption, it has strengthened the Government's commitment to housing and energy efficiency
issues. The process introduced by the project has created momentum for a dialogue on broader housing
policy issues: (i) The Government has asked the Bank for a follow up operation that would help it
strengthen the institutional linkages and fill in policy gaps that were identified by the project and
incorporate lessons learned from the project into a broader housing reform agenda; and (ii) The
Government has adopted a Housing Policy Concept Outline (September 2000), which includes an official
position to use IFI resources for further energy efficiency investments. In addition, the Vilnius municipality,
the capital of the country, is currently moving forward on privatizing its municipal maintenance companies,
something that had been delayed during the course of the project.
The Government remains committed to public initiatives to improve energy efficiency in schools, in
particular the Government has made use of another Bank loan, the Municipal Development Project (Ln.
4481-LT), to expand energy efficiency investments in schools while it prepares a more substantial
investment through the Bank's proposed Education loan.
The pilot introduced the HOA as an effective community-based mechanism for residential housing
management that is likely to be a sustainable alternative to the 50-year legacy of having the Government
take care of housing. A participant survey conducted by HUDF of 46 HOA Chairpersons and 290
members in 2001 provided strong anecdotal evidence of the impact on the strength of HOAs in housing
communities. About 26 percent of those surveyed agreed to the statement that taking a loan improved their
relationship with other members and an overwhelming number of respondents (90 percent) would
recommend taking a loan to implement energy efficiency projects to other HOAs. This willingness to take a
loan for community improvements through HOAs is a remarkable achievement given the initially poor
reputation of commercial banks, particularly after a series of banking failures during the banking crisis of
1995, and the lack of a history of private initiative in the care for housing, particularly in common areas.
- 11 -



The Government made a policy choice to make the project overcome the significant barriers to
community-driven housing investments by introducing a grant element of up to 30 percent in 1999. While
it did contemplate a grant element during project preparation, the Government decided to try without the
grant in the beginning of the pilot effort. Prior to the introduction of the grant element, investments were
smaller (See Paragraph 4.2) suggesting higher sensitivity to financial rates of return and short gestations.
Milestone surveys conducted during the mid-term review suggested, however, that the motivation to invest
did not rest solely on energy savings but also on achieving desired comfort levels and making emergency
repairs. The surveys also suggested that the experience of going through with the investment strengthened
homeowner satisfaction with their HOA. The grant element helped to reduce the social costs of collective
decision making so that a greater number of households could gain access to energy efficiency measures
and the experience of community based efforts to improve their common assets. The grant element helped
HOAs to decide on larger and more varied investments than they otherwise would have made. This broader
experience reinforced the role of the HOA as an alternative to Government-led property maintenance and
management.
For the purposes of the ICR, overall project sustainability is rated likely because the project ultimately
focused on institutional development impact for which it realized a sustainable outcome - improving the
way communities of private homeowners interact with one another to make collective decisions for the
maintenance of common property.
6.2 Transition arrangenient to regular operations:
The Government has asked the Bank for a follow on housing project and has moved to place elements of a
transition from the pilot project to a regular operation in place. As it prepares for project preparation
work, it has decided to use the reflows from the project for a revolving fund (though this decision was made
about a year ago) to maintain the energy efficiency loan program to HOAs and help with the transition
from this project to the next. The Government has formed a Coordination Committee comprising key
ministries, the Housing and Urban Development Foundation and private sector participants, including a
representative of a homeowner's association, to steer project preparation and develop a comprehensive
housing policy. The Bank has received approval from the Government of Japan for a $502,000 Policy and
Human Resources Development grant for project preparation. The Government has obtained financing
from the Government of Denmark for a Danish civil servant to develop a implementation plan following on
the Energy Efficiency Strategy study it funded under the pilot project.  The Bank supported the
organization of an international housing finance conference by the Lithuanian Government, with a focus on
credit enhancement mechanisms (including planned discussions on attracting private investment for housing
renewal) in Vilnius in October 2001. The conference was attended by the highest levels of Government.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bantk
7.1 Len1ding:
The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. Identification, preparation and appraisal
were carried out in accordance with the Government's energy and housing priorities for the sector. The
Bank's experience particularly on the social aspects of demand side residential energy efficiency and
generally the housing sector in the region was limited at appraisal. The Bank team made full use of pilot
activities and studies prepared with Swedish and EU Phare funds, and worked closely with key donors in
the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway, to develop an effective project design and technical assistance
package containing several innovative participatory techniques. Notably, the team kept its eyes on a good
- 12-



start for ensuring timely mobilization and effective coordination of the many consultants. This helped to
deploy the distribution of information, engineering advice and other technical assistance that were needed to
provide energy audits (and thereby a potential pipeline) for about 20 HOAs who had expressed interest
before loan effectiveness. The Bank also avoided duplication by using the eligibility criteria and review
process of the Bank's Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Loan to qualify participating banks under
the project.
The Bank left a few key preparation issues -- signing an implementation agreement, signing of participatory
financing institution agreement, adoption of operating procedures -- as conditions for loan effectiveness.
However, effectiveness was declared in timely fashion, four months after Board approval.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision effort was satisfactory. The Bank team made a substantial effort to manage a
demanding supervision agenda within the resource limitations imposed by country allocations for
supervision. The task team used several consultants from Consultant Trust Funds to help supervise the
project, particularly in engineering, communications and housing policy. Strong support from the Program
Team Leader and Sector Manager ensured a smooth transition to a new Task Team Leader in the last two
years of implementation. A Quality Assurance Group supervision audit rated the supervision effort
satisfactory and staff continuity highly satisfactory in the transition year.
The task team exhibited implementation flexibility, which is essential for pilot projects. The Bank was
flexible in modifying the Legal Agreement three times to adjust to the requirements of this demand-driven
project. Notably, the first amendment reduced resources for residential loans due to weak demand, while
the third reallocated uncommitted funds back to residential loans to accommodate strengthened demand
from homeowners. The task team adjusted procurement procedures to streamline implementation and made
innovative use of the Bank Intemal Audit Department to investigate a case of alleged misprocurement (it
tumed out to not have been misprocurement). Certain implementation issues could have been more
strongly pursued. Follow through on observations in the auditors management letters (reconciliation of
project accounts) was less than satisfactory and could have been more strongly communicated. In addition,
the team could have taken a stronger position with the Ministry of Finance when preparations to sign an
agreement for a second participating commercial bank stalled. Onlending rates were kept reasonable at 11
percent for three years (a subsidy of 12-19 percent, well below the 29 percent threshold established during
supervision) but the required interest rate reviews were only sporadically done by the MOF in the later half
of the project. Table 1 provides data on lending rates during project implementation.
Table 1. EEHPP Lending Rates for Part A
1996-1997    1998      1999      2000      2001
HOA Loan interest rate ("consumer rate")        15%        11%      11%       11%       11%
average yield on 6-12 mo Govt Bonds/Deposit Rates"  11%    8%        8%        9%        8%
market reference rate                           16%        13%      13%       14%       13%
Govemment subsidy on interest rate               1%        2%        2%        3%        2%
subsidy as share of market reference rate        3%        14%      13%       19%       13%
1-5 year commercial loans (BoL data) - for reference'  14%  13%     13%       12%       11%
1/ Source: Bank of Lithuania
The Bank closely coordinated its supervision activities with bilateral donors and used the pilot project to
keep open a dialogue on broader housing issues with the Govermment. Its focus on development objectives
was highly satisfactory, emphasizing leaming and information exchange inside and outside of Lithuania.
- 13 -



As mentioned, the team arranged for the Managing Director of HUDF to give a presentation on community
driven development to the delegates of the 2000 Spring Meetings of the World Bank. The continuous
sector dialogue helped to secure the interest of the Government in a follow on housing project.
7.3 Overall Bank pe formnance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Despite the shortfall in supervision resources, the Bank
team provided significant support to the Borrower and moved the project forward to a satisfactory
completion.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's preparation effort was satisfactory. The Ministry of Construction and Urban Development
took full ownership and prepared the project efficiently. The Ministry was a strong champion for the
project. The project coordination unit, the HUDF, was set up in 1994 as the Fund for the Renovation of
Residential Housing with a small staff. The HUDF (then called the Housing Credit Foundation) worked
effectively to develop its implementation capacity during preparation. Government funds for project
preparation helped to finance demonstration projects which facilitated preparation activities and contributed
to a project design well tailored to local conditions.
7.5 Government inipleinentation performance:
Government implementation performance at the ministry-level was marginally satisfactory, but PIU
performance was strong. Government commitment to the project remained strong despite frequent Cabinet
and institutional changes, the most significant of which was the dissolution of the Ministry of Construction
and Urban Development in 1998. The supervision of technical assistance and the execution of Dutch Trust
Fund (TF034224) totaling NLG 1,249,500 (disbursed NLG 1,005,789) was also satisfactory. However,
better follow through on several operational issues could have improved implementation performance the
most significant of which was the year long delay in providing the up front energy efficiency grant.
Finalizing the agreement for a second commercial bank and releasing the revolving fund would have
broadened homeowner access and potentially improved project performance. The opening of a special
account would have reduced the burden on the state budget by making the Bank's loan funds directly
available to homeowners and helped to streamline project accounting.
Policy advances were made though perhaps not to the extent hoped for at appraisal. The heat subsidy was
changed in 1997 to better target low income persons and then in 1998 to allow low income persons to use
the subsidy to cover their debt obligations under the project. This latter change removed an obstacle to
participation of those homeowners with low and unstable incomes who were reluctant to take on long term
financial obligations. Privatization of municipal maintenance did not go as far as expected but some
progress was made. The law on homeowner's associations was amended in June 2000 improving the
enabling environment for the administration of private property.
7.6 Implemnenting Agency:
The strong commitment of HUDF staff and its Managing Director contributed to successful project
completion despite initially slow progress and problems with implementation. The HUDF demonstrated
high professional competence particularly in social, technical and procurement aspects of the project. It
helped to incorporate early lessons into project implementation, introducing changes that streamlined
operational procedures in the first supervision mission. The loss of the Ministry of Construction and Urban
- 14 -



Development (MCUD), the chief institutional sponsor of the project, and frequent changes in the
Government placed additional demands on the HUDF to ensure project continuity and facilitate pending
implementation issues with new Government officials. The HUDF became the nerve center of the project,
supporting Advisory Centers and providing substantive inputs to the policy studies mandated under the
Loan Agreement. By the end of the project the HUDF was widely disseminating lessons learned through
academic journals, trade shows, presentations as well as providing data and advice to international and
local energy efficiency and housing administration activities.
HUDF involvement in a second Bank project distracted it from doing more technical and social monitoring
at the end of the project. A substantial portion of project staff were assigned implementation responsibilities
for a large energy efficiency retrofitting in schools component under the Municipal Development Loan.
Nonetheless, despite some technical and non-technical problems, physical implementation of the project
was satisfactorily managed by HUDF.
Financial management of the project was adequate. The follow through on project audit recommendations
was less than satisfactory. The division of labor between the HUDF and MOF caused financial statement
reconciliation difficult and responsibility for following up on auditor and Bank supervision comments
ambiguous.
The overall performance of the implementation agency is rated as fully satisfactory. It should be noted that
Bank implementation experience was largely limited to a Rehabilitation Loan at the time of project
inception, and as such the achievements of the PIU are commendable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performnance:
The overall borrower performance was satisfactory. Though not in the time frame hoped for, the
Government provided financial and implementation support to ensure effective project implementation. The
HUDF implemented the project efficiently and supported Bank as well as donor supervision missions
satisfactorily.
8. Lessons Learned
General Lessons:
Pilot projects such as this are based on a limited amount of knowledge and experience. As pilots, they are
an opportunity to confirm the efficacy of mechanisms, institutions and project assumptions. The strength
of the monitoring and evaluation process is central to the project's success or failure. As such, the project
was well designed, but key milestone surveys were conducted at a time when few loans were taken and the
process not fully tested. In as much as implementation flexibility is required, stringent adherence to
timetables may limit the intended impact of the pilot from the point of view of quantifiable data. Whatever
the shortcomings of the data, the qualitative information generated by the project helped to test and refine
project assumptions.
Well defined operational procedures are essential for pilot projects to generate experiences such that
performance measures are meaningful at completion. The project benefited from an early demonstration
project sponsored by the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development which focused on process
issues and technical outcomes. However, the procedures should not be a straight jacket. Implementation
flexibility is needed to ensure that early lessons are incorporated and then re-tested in later years of
implementation. A number of operational lessons were gained from the strengths and weaknesses identified
- 15 -



during implementation as a result of the project's operational quality at entry.
However well prepared they are, though, projects whose main purpose is to change people's behavior
through new experiences will by definition be slow to begin, and moreover, slow to disburse. A critical
mass of experience is needed before demand-driven projects like this project are able to achieve their
desired impact. This implies higher than usual transaction costs for the project and a demanding
supervision assignment for the Bank. For fifty years, two generations grew up in Lithuania depending on
the State to perform administration and maintenance of their homes. After privatization homeowners were
faced with unaccustomed-to responsibilities not only for their own home, but also for common property in
multiapartment buildings. The degree to which meaningful private initiative for property maintenance in
multiapartment buildings could be achieved without considerable transaction costs particularly in Eastern
Europe and the Former Soviet Union should be carefully considered in similar operations.
Lessons on Community-Based Energy EffJiciency Projects:
Project Beneficiaries (Homeowners/Homeowners' Associations)
*   HOAs are able and willing to renovate common property if provided with institutional support,
technical support and financial incentives. This can be considered as a tested, successful approach to
Community-driven development-style projects in urban areas.
*   HOAs take debt seriously and are repaying loans, often faster than needed (may be specific to
Lithuania).
*   Case stories and examples have an important demonstration effect when communicated directly to
homeowners.
Legal Barriers
*   Proper legal and regulatory framework is mandatory to facilitate formation of HOAs and energy
efficiency investments. These barriers should be addressed in similar operations.
*   Lack of wider educational program regarding HOAs leads to a poor understanding of laws and
regulations.
Institutional Barriers
*   Significant institutional support and financial incentives are needed to reduce the transaction costs
associated with addressing barriers to the formation of HOAs and to private initiative in maintenance
of residential buildings. Alytus city is the only successful case of private maintenance penetration in
the market during project implementation. In Alytus, a private maintenance company literally went
door-to-door, convincing homeowners of the benefits of HOAs, helping to establish them, and then
offering private maintenance and administration services.
*   HOAs are hesitant to invest in project preparation (energy audit and preparation of investment
proposal); however, they are willing to cover some expenses for design, procurement and supervision
consultant services. Experiences count -- the higher the number of successful cases, the larger the
interest and willingness to contribute financially towards home improvements.
*   Privatization of municipal maintenance companies would help to facilitate formation of HOAs by
removing artificial pricing of maintenance services, opening the door to competition in the sector and
offering homeowners choices in maintenance services. This issue should be addressed in similar
operations.
- 16 -



Energy Efficiency and Energy Savings
*   The main motivations for homeowners when they decide to take the loan were (in order of importance):
(i) to improve their own apartment, e.g. improved indoor climate, better windows; (ii) to carry out
urgent repairs of the building (leaking roofs, etc.) thus prolonging the life of their asset; (iii) to obtain
energy savings.
*   After project implementation, homeowners become more interested in energy savings and some start
planning new projects.
*   Once payment for heat is based on building level metering and size of apartments, the actual energy
savings - reduced consumption - varies significantly from building to building and can be negligible
due to increased consumption - from a motivation to have higher indoor temperatures.
*   Metering in individual apartments with thermostatic valves and heat cost allocators on the radiators
have demonstrated high energy savings and satisfaction.
Financial Barriers
* Homeowners are willing to invest in energy efficiency and renovation if supported with financial
incentives, i.e. tax benefits and grant elements. Public outreach alone will not convince homeowners.
*   Lack of collateral is an important obstacle to private sector lending to HOAs. Transaction costs
associated with administering the subloan as it was structured in this project made this product
unattractive for commercial banks as they emerged from banking crisis over the second half of the
1990s. Other financial products could be more effective in mobilizing private bank lending in energy
efficiency retrofitting once banks are in a position to move into retail banking.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Bonrower/implementing agency:
- 17 -



LIETVYO     RESPL'BLIKOS FWiNNSV MINESTERIJA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBIAC OF LITRUANIA
Mtr. (Wa lius L)raugafis                      2020    '     I0-4-O~Q
.Sr. ZZAIIIUS U"i                  ~2002- al t'  130-04-0.20    05
Opeations Officcr
nhfi-astructurc and EnergyDepartment
rurop mad CL-trrat Asia Region
WtVrld Hunk mrnup
Dear -Mr. Draugelis,
Thank you row your lents of Octobcr 25,2001 tTansrnitting the Implerentation Cornpiu:tion
Keport for the Energy Ef-lcia:y and Rousing Piot Prodst WVe hiav reviewed thu repori and tilla
agrce with its contem and conclusions.
Please find attacbcd our report on the imnplementation of this Project - a conrnbution of div
Horrower. which was prepatud by Howsing and Urban Devloptuct i Fowudation, amu implerneniing
ak'cnm  of the Energy )tffickncy and Housing Pilot Project
Kind regards.
Vice .Ministcr                                      Asta UnguWaim.nu
Borrower's contribution is provided in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments received from the Ministry for Economic and Business Affairs (formerly Ministry of
Housing and Urban Development), Denmark:
Our evaluation of the project is that is has been successful for the following reasons:
* the loan money has been used on time;
* the process of establishing HOAs has been enhanced, and legislation and taxation issues related to
HOAs have been improved;
- 18-



*   chairpersons for HOAs have been trained in maintenance planning;
*   public awareness of the possibilities and advantages of energy renovations has increased;
*   the renovations have had a positive impact on energy efficiency as was the intention, although
different renovation solutions and different buildings, as well as the wish to have warmer
apartments, now given that opportunity, have to some extent influenced the extent of savings;
*   more than 200 blocks have been renovated;
*   private energy consultants have been trained;
*   a revolving fund with loan repayments has been established to allow new loans to circulate; and
*   HUDF has, as a side effect of the project, developed into a professional unit for implementing and
stimulating housing policy.
The following steps however still need to be taken by the Lithuanian government in order to assure the
sustainability and the spreading effect of results obtained:
*   financial assistance in coming years for the major parts of the running costs of the advisory centers
- this is a government task, as the centers implement housing and energy efficiency policy. Money
invested in the centers comes out with an accelerator effect on society in terms of renovations and
thereby jobs created as well as a positive effect on the renovated neighborhoods and thereby the
value of apartments and their social attractiveness. Denmark has provided financial assistance for
the initial 6 years so far and will do so for another year or two on a declining scale, but the centers
have a purpose of advising and training home owners in maintenance, organizational and energy
efficiency in many years yet to come, when looking at the potential for forming HOAs and the
potential for further energy efficient renovations;
*   put a one-time sum of money into the revolving fund to off-set the negative impact of the fund
having been created later than originally intended; and
*   make a law either on obligatory privatization of the municipal maintenance companies or on quality
requirements for work done by the municipal companies - the positive impact on the national
budget would, however, be most direct through privatization.
If future projects of this type are considered we would recommend that:
*   the World Bank set in motion a special program to develop and make more efficient the private
banking sector in parallel, possibly in coordination with the World Bank and Ministries of
Economy of interested donor countries;
*   the World Bank in accordance with donors assures that information activities are as targeted as
possible from the outset and that they continue throughout the entire period - instead of broad initial
campaigns followed by targeted and then more or less no information; and
*   attention is given not just to creating new institutions like HUDF and the advisory centers but also
to ensure their formal linkage, instead of the opposite, to the public administration, as public trust
in public administration needs to be improved and could be by such capacity building.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments received from the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs recommended inclusion of an
excerpt "Lessons Learned" of Consultant's Final Report under the Project. This section is included
in Annex 9. The full report is on file.
- 19 -



Senter [the agency of the Ministry of Economic Affairs responsible for supervising the co-financing of this
project] has already approved this final [consultant] report and believes that this project has shown that a
tripartite cooperation between the World Bank, the donor countries and the beneficiary country can really
have added value. In particular the active contribution of the Lithuanian government and in particular
HUDF has been in my view very important. Also the close cooperation between the Netherlands and
Denmark has been positive. Because of this development I have good trust that the sustainability of this
new development initiated via this common tripartite approach is secured. For this optimististic view a
stable governmental environment will be of course be of great importance.
10. Additional Information
None.
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   ProJected In last PSR :             ActuallLatest Estimate-,
No. of buildings rehabilitated:                                           264 apartment buildings renovated.
apartment buildings                                                       25 SFHs renovated.
single family homes (SFH)
No. of loans approved by PFI:  -     200 HOAs and 25 SFHs                 234 loans to 211 HOAs provided.
to Homeowners' Ass.(HOA)   -                                              26 loans to SFH owners provided.
to SFH owners
No of consultants                    120                                  193 consultants trained. The Lithuanian
completed training                                                        Energy Consultants Association was formed
recently. The members of the Association
oomprise the trainees who gained experience
under the EEHPP.
Other indicators re. HOAs:           Advised 675 HOAs                     726 HOAs advised.
No of HOAs advised/supported                                              304 investment proposals prepared.
No of inv. proposals prepared
Total amount of investment undertaken by  $7.57 mn (excluding 10% downpayment by  $8.48 mn total invested.
homeowners' associations (in US$     borrowers)
equivalent)
and SFHs (of which 30 % counterpart funds)
(PART A)
Energy saved (measured in % terms, in  30-40% for medium sized packages. 50 %  Of 62 HOAs monitored, heating consumption
relation to energy consumpton before  where all measures taken.           average savings are 20% percent. In 18
implementation of measures, taking weather                                schools monitored heat consumption average
conditions and indoor temperature into                                    savings were 62%.
account).
Number of pupils impacted in rehabilitated  5,000                         43 schools and 10 kindergardens in 12 of 60
schools                                                                   municipalities rehabilitated, benefitting
26,745 pupils.
Total amount of investment undertaken by  $5.8 mn                         $5.88 mn total invested.
municipalities (in US$ equivalent) (of which
20 % counterpart funds) (PART B)
Other Indicators:                    5 advisory centers operating         5 advisory centers operating.
5 advisory centers fully established and
staffed.
20 local engineers contracted for project                                 HUDF keeps a roster of engineers that have
related work.                                                             gained experience in energy audits and
project related design work. In total 19
engineering consulting firms were used in
project work.
% of credit risk which banks are willing to  Banks are unwilling to take credit risk at this  Banks are unwilling to take credit risk
assume regarding lending to Homeowners'  Ume; though consumer lending has Just  regarding lending to HOAs.
Associations.                        started.
Relevant policy decisions taken / activities                              Status of HOA Law improvements made in
initiated (e.g. targeting of housing subsidies;                           July 2000: (i) Implementing decree on
cost recovery in residential energy tariffs;                              property administration has been accepted.
reform of residential energy subsidy program)                             Some municipalities have already accepted
by-laws for property administrators. (ii)
*Improved HOA Law drafted in 1998 and                                     However, mandatory membership to HOAs
presented to Pariiament during Spring 1999.                               was struck down by Constitutional Court in
December 2000.
- 21 -



*Housing Lending Program (Bustas)      Govemment commitment to review Bustas  Govemment has asked Bank for new
improved in 1998 (less subsidies) and in  Program.                           Housing Reform program and has
1999 (requiring funding by banking sector).                                  maintained the reforms (though not perfect)
undertaken in 1999.
'Energy Tariffs increased essentially to full                                 Energy tariffs are maintained at acceptable
cost recovery in 1997, and full recovery                                     levels.
maintained since then.
*Parts of energy subsidy policy slightly                                      Revision of energy subsidy policy maintained.
revised at end of 1997 benefitting needy
project beneficiaries.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
Note: Output/Impact indicators were presented in one table in the Staff Appraisal Report.
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
Residential Rehabilitation                          15.10           8.48
Rehabilitation of Schools                            2.20           5.88
InstitLtional Development and Technical Assistance   2.80          4.10
Total Baseline Cost                                 20.10          18.46
Physical Contingencies                              0.50
Total Project Costs            20.60           18.46
Total Financing Required             20.60          18.46
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          1.80        15.70         0.00        17.50
(0.00)       (1.40)        (8.40)       (0.00)      (9.80)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.20         2.90         3.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                      0.00         1.80         15.90        2.90         20.60
(0.00)       (1.40)        (8.60)       (0.00)      (10.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Othod        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB          Other
1. Works                     1.71         4.06         8.59         0.00        14.36
(1.37)       (3.24)       (5.38)       (0.00)      (9.99)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         4.10         4.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 23 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          1.71           4.06           8.59          4.10           18.46
(1.37)         (3.24)         (5.38)         (0.00)        (9.99)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
C  Percentage of Appraisal]
Compyonent              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estmate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Residential Rehabilitation  8.20     7.20                 5.30      3.18               64.6    44.2
Rehabilitation of Schools  1.70      0.60                4.69       1.19               275.9  198.3
Institutional Development  0.10      0.80      2.00       0.00      0.53      3.57      0.0    66.3   178.5
and Technical Assistance
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
This section describes in more detail the methodology that underlined the economic analysis and the
calculation of the project's intemal rate of return (IRR). All data and household expenditure used in the
model were in Lithuanian Litas. The projects costs and benefits were evaluated over a twenty year period.
Table A3.1 shows the project's actual investments, along with the economic (resource) and financial costs
to households and schools.
Table A3.1 Investment, Economic and Financial Costs, 1997-2001
(Lithuanian Litas)
Actual Investment  Economic Cost    Financial Cost
Household Investment Cost         33,925,886       27,819,227        21,581,756
School Rehabilitation Cost        23,527,728        19,292,737       19,292,737
Total Cost                        57,453,614       47,111,963        40,874,493
The project's actual investment costs, as measured by the amount of expenditures on energy savings
rehabilitations, were adjusted to economic costs by netting out taxes (VAT of 18% for 100% of the
investment in schools and for 90% of household investment). For the further adjustment to financial costs
perceived by participating households, the subsidy (upper bound of 30% per apartment) given to
households (either directly or via HOAs) was netted out. .
Table A3.2 provides a summary of the energy savings that accrued to the monitored schools and
households at the end of the project, expressed as a percent of initial heat expenditures (i.e. before the
project started).
Table A3.2 Energy Savings Rates, 2001
(Percent of pre-project expenditures)
Reduced     Comfort
Consumption   Adjusted
Households          13.2%      22.6%
Schools             27.7%      51.1%
Savings were calculated in "pure" financial terms, reflecting solely reductions in the levels of energy
consumption (reduced-consumption savings rate). This measure is a misleading indicator of consumers'
true financial benefits. Based on observations at the end of the project, the investments were made to
increase comfort levels first and to reduce overall heat consumption second (only after a minimum
temperature/level of comfort was attained). The project's financial benefits were thus calculated in terms of
the monetary savings resulting from lower energy consumption and increased comfort levels due to lower
heat loss and thereby greater affordability of higher inside temperatures (comfort-adjusted savings rate).
The project produced a financial intemal rate of return (FIRR) of 12.1% (see Table A3.3).
Table A3.3 Project Rates of Return
(Lithuanian Litas)
Financial   Economic 1
| Intemal Rate of Retum         12.1%         8.6%|I
Since it was prohibitively expensive before the project was implemented for households to heat their
apartments to the desired temperature, the economic analysis takes into account the fact that beneficiaries
started out in a situation in which energy consumption was below its desired level due to the high marginal
cost of heating. Since consumers were not heating their apartments (schools) to temperatures they
- 25 -



considered optimal, notional (desired) demand at the start of the project was higher than observed demand.
This is borne out by the results of the social assessment that was done before project appraisal, where
many households considered their apartments colder than they would like it to be and many were using
altemative heat sources to increase their level of comfort. Implementing the project was tantamount to
effectively reducing the marginal cost of heat (per unit of comfort as measured by degrees centigrade) to the
end-users. In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) it was assumed that notional and observed demand were
equal, whereas the effective demand for energy turned out to be higher than expected, since consumers were
faced with lower unit heat costs (as measured by the cost per degree centigrade). Given the importance of
heat purchases in the household budget, this decrease in relative price led to both an income effect (an
increase in the household's real purchasing power) and price effect, both of which led to a less than
expected reduction in heat consumption. This leads to a welfare gain that is not captured by changes in the
total value of energy consumed.
The lack of data makes it impossible to rigorously estimate a demand function. The notional demand was
therefore calculated by taking the pre-project level of energy expenditure and increasing it by a factor that
would make the consumer as comfortable as they would be at the end of the project. The factor used to
adjust pre-project expenditures to the higher (pre-project) notional demarid is the rate of comfort-adjusted
savings shown in Table A3.2. The difference between the notional demand before the project and the
actual expenditures at the end of the project provides a proxy for the societal welfare gains generated by the
project. By taking into account such a welfare gain and the cost of the subsidy, the project produced an
economic intemal rate of return (EIRR) of 8.6%.
The project's FIRR exceeded its EIRR largely because of the size of the government subsidy provided to
households and HOAs. As was the case in the SAR, the calculation of benefits does not take into account
the fact that households and municipalities made investments with longer payback periods that contribute
partly to energy efficiency, but also lengthen the productive life of the assets. Despite the stated importance
of this benefit in household surveys, the value of benefits that resulted from improving the physical
condition of the assets were not quantified due to lack of data, and the EIRR calculated therefore
underestimates the true economic return to households and society.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
November 1993                4   3 Economists, I Architect
February 1994               3    2 Economists, I Division Chief
May 1994                    3    2 Economists, I Consultant
July/Aug. 1994              2    Economists
October 1994                2    Economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
Sept./Oct. 1995             6    4 Economists, I Architect, I
Social Scientist
Apr./May 1996               2    Economists
Supervision
July 1996                    2   Team Leader, Energy                S             S
Consultant
Aug./Sept. 1996              8   Team Leader, 3 Economists, I       S             S
Operations Analyst, I Energy
Consultant, I Public Information
Consultant, I Institutional
Consultant
February 1997                3   Team Leader, Economist             S             S
June 1997                    5   2 Economists, I Operations         S             S
Analyst, I Energy Consultant,
I Public Information Consultant
February 1998                2   Team Leader, Energy Consultant     S             S
May/June 1998                5   Team Leader, Operations            S             S
Analyst, Social Scientist,
Public Information, Engineer
June 1999                    5   Team Leader, Operations            S             S
Analyst, 2 Social Scientists,
Public Information
February 2000                5   Team Leader, Economist,            S             S
Operations Officer, Procurement
Specialist, Engineer
June 2000                    4   Team Leader, PTL, 2                S             S
Consultants
September 2000               5   Team Leader, PTL, Engineer,        S             S
Operations Officer,
Financial/Municipal Consultant
February 2001                1   Team Leader                        S             S
ICR
-27 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                2.2                       19.9
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                              59.1                      360.9
ICR
Total                                    61.3                      380.8
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
F Physical                              O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Institutional Development            0 H   O SU O M   O N  0 NA
Oi Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Gender                         O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
El Other (Please specify)              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S Ou OHU
f Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       O u    O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os       0 U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.  Staff Appraisal Report No. 15397-LT, June 7, 1996
2.  Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 9, 1996
3.  Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, March 19, 1997
4.  Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 26, 1997
5.  Project Status Report (non-mission update), January 16, 1998
6.  Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, March 19, 1998
7.  Supervision Mission/Mid-Term Review Back-to-Office Report, June 15, 1998
8.  Project Status Report (non-mission update), February 9, 1999
9.  Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 25, 1999
10. Project Status Report (non-mission update), December 20, 1999
11. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, February 18, 2000
12. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, July 10, 2000
13. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, August 16, 2000
14. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 10, 2000
15. Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, February 16, 2001
16. Technical Mission, Back-to-Office Report, September 24, 2001
17. PIU Quarterly Progress Reports
18. The Kaliningrad Center for Social Surveys, "The Results of the Poll (Head of Household Interview)
Vilnius-city", Russian Federation, May 1999.
19. Economic Commission for Europe, United Nations Country Profiles on the Housing Sector --
Lithuania, New York and Geneva, 2000.
20. Peitsman, H. and Vijfwinkel, W., "Energy Renovation in Schools: Experiences and Lessons Learned,"
Netherlands, 2001. (Consultants from TNO Dutch Consulting Firm.)
21. Ramboll (Danish Consulting Firm), "Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project -- Social Monitoring
and Beneficiary Assessment and Minutes from Final Workshop 8 September 1998," October 1998.
- 31 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
Improving Energy Efficiency in Residential and Public Buildings in Lithuania:
The Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project
Summary
Combined efforts of active homeowners, private businesses, the project coordination unit, state authorities,
donor countries and international financing institutions led to successful implementation of the Energy
Efficiency Housing Pilot Project (EEHPP) in Lithuania. This project was aimed at supporting private and
public initiatives to reduce energy use in residential and public buildings and supporting the Lithuanian
Government in the housing privatization process via increased private initiative in housing maintenance.
The project objectives should have been achieved through: (a) provision of loans for technically and
economically attractive packages of energy efficiency measures; (b) introduction of the concept of
long-term lending for housing improvement to the commercial banking sector; (c) development of energy
consulting services; (d) comprehensive assistance to homeowners implementing energy efficiency projects;
and (e) support for municipalities in the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools. Appropriate financing,
workable legal framework, and extensive support network enabled more than 200 homeowners'
associations and owners of individual houses as well as 12 municipalities to implement various packages of
energy efficiency measures in their buildings. Within the project framework approximately US$8.5 million
were invested in renovation of residential buildings, US$5.9 million in rehabilitation of schools and US$2.9
million in institutional strengthening and technical assistance.
The major focus of the project was improvement of energy efficiency in residential multi-family buildings
managed by Homeowners Associations (HOAs). Figure I shows the set up of this project component.
Financing for investments was made available for Homeowners Associations via local commercial bank(s).
A support network consisting of five Advisory centers provided free of charge advice on technical, legal,
financial and managerial issues to members of associations and individual homeowners. Private energy
consultants supported HOAs with preparation and supervision of renovation projects. Private contractors
were involved in the implementation of building renovation works.
- 32 -



Non-private sector                         Private sector
Credit        World          Ministry         Commercial ............   Home-
line         |Bank|fFinance|a|kbanks                                    owners
Associ
ations
(HOA)
Suppor        HD        IAdvisory Centres~
networ                   for HOA
_gConsultant 
. FURAS. .F   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~      | ~engineers    l
0- Contractors
Support/servic
Figure 1 - The objectives should have been achieved through provision of loans to HOAs and establishment
of a support network enabling HOA to benefit from the credit line. The Housing and Urban Development
Foundation acted as the project coordination unit.
Within the project framework capacity of private energy consultants was enhanced and a comprehensive
public information program was conducted. These undertakings improved Lithuanian public awareness on
energy efficiency issues and enabled 207 HOAs and 25 owners of single family houses to implement
various packages of energy efficiency measures in their buildings - Figure 2. Monitoring of the
implemented projects showed very large variation in achieved savings and pay back times, but seen
together the investments were cost effective.
Total amount of loans (used loan amount) to  74,300  206,000  1,161,000 3,375,500 2,401,200 7,218 000
HOAs (period - according to the end of
works), US$                             _                   _  _
Amount of grant provided, US$                         442,300   905,500  695,200  2,043,000 1
No. of Projects implemented by HOAs   5        18       49       III       46       229
(some HOAs implemented more than one
project)      ,. -             _.                   _.
No. of-HOAs advised                   87       113      312      113       101      726   |
No. of buildings audited              46       54       141       66       24       331   i
No. of Investment Proposals prepared  27       45       134       75       23       304
Average loan, US$                   14,850    11,460   23,700   30,400   52,200    31,500
Figure 2 - Summary of the EEHPP results (for HOAs only).
The EEHPP was a pilot project that attracted large donor support for technical assistance, which
effectively supported the implementation. The project addressed only a fraction of the total demand for
- 33 -



renovation and energy efficiency in the country. Nevertheless the project aim to initiate development and
demonstrate practical solutions was fulfilled. Financing possibilities for Homeowners Associations were at
the end of the project insufficient and the project failed to involve private banks to meet this demand. New
initiatives to meet this growing demand were initiated and should be supported.
Project background
Prior to the EEHPP implementation the housing sector situation can be summarized as: (1) poorly
maintained buildings with excessive energy intensity; (2) lack of financing opportunities for owners of
newly privatized of apartments; (3) poor managerial capacity of homeowners and lack of traditions for
communal undertakings; and (4) undeveloped energy consulting services.
Lithuania's dependence on imported fuel and the rapidly increasing energy prices made the wasteful energy
consumption an unaffordable burden for income constrained consumers. A number of studies suggested
that there was a significant potential for cost effective implementation of energy efficiency measures in
residential buildings and that it was difficult for homeowners to finance the required investments without
the involvement of credit institutions.
Housing sector privatization started from privatization of apartments of multi-family buildings and the
EEHPP was designed to demonstrate ways to complete the privatization via stimulation of private initiative
in housing maintenance and renovation.
Project Implementation
The Housing and Urban Development Foundation (HUDF) was responsible for the project implementation
together with the Ministry of Finance and the project was implemented in the period of 1996-2001. The
extensive technical support program was mainly sponsored by the Danish Ministry of Housing and Urban
Affairs and the Dutch Ministry of Economics. Governments and agencies of Sweden, Norway and the EU
provided limited support. The project implementation team, the World Bank and donors were very
determined on a success and this enthusiasm greatly contributed to a successful implementation.
Funds for school renovation were channelled to participating municipalities via the Ministry of Finance of
Lithuania. 12 municipalities benefited from the project and implemented energy efficiency measures in 53
schools and kindergartens, benefiting 26,745 pupils. Technical monitoring of 18 retrofitted secondary
schools demonstrated average heat savings of 24 percent. Successful implementation of public school
renovation projects generated significant demand from the municipalities for further loans.
Figure 3 shows main events of the residential project component. The project developed as a genuine pilot
project with numerous modifications and an effective integration of lessons. Three performed policy studies
significantly assisted the project implementation team and the Govemment to make necessary amendments
of laws and procedures to ensure efficient disbursement of allocated funds.
- 34 -



It proved to be difficult to motivate homeowners to take a common bank loan and implement energy
efficiency measures due to household resistance against using bank loans for communal undertakings.
There were many barriers to overcome and only a few HOAs succeeded in the first year of the project
implementation. These few examples were used in public campaigns which increased interest in the project.
The real break through came after introduction of a 30% State grant on the loan principal - see Figure 4.
Peajea  ...peotle and  IO  eapn .1.55.                                  Agwe msed at
mabttten        itOA 1  poet..*dt.    O _  er _D              h.. AdetsaeCtr.ts M  ta e  .   I
1094    proparalon and
Operal-ng proc-duresand                                                   i
jggg  Planning andeevI>ng Up ati(                                                    
proceduies andlaorms  IIi                             jji                                  iI
19ti7   tnaaytiln nepant   |                                i                  i '               / i                / '
an preparad                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oan( pass -ll tyt.nme .tKA
| (described in incoptiOn |                              tdOA(bn-IachureenDily eII xprl umess  iO
Et.abllshment af 2'                                    Pna;sct review mPs,.)n
C-ntratilan end tretning9 a  Adat-ary Centres SteI                         tatereet rate negund tam
prNaete eningy consultants  taning beginning a f          En-rgy Auits -ery   15 t 1
euppart tl HOA  pI0               cnprhtnsi-e Delays on  Praceduras end arms tar
preparetl-n      Energy Audit end
I                 i  The tiret ta nagrens signed ntzs   P.bil.
Re-i.eaoar:Ioi oaan  i             j |nrd ip .mene d ta                                         ubetO Adal.y 
sns                proce~~~~~~~~~~~~d.... J ...d     -                                       b. W.-ojn  I..on  Cnta nrasdfo 
j                      WIi r, th.2E CnanEgy
AdW-y t    ......   -dD IdPublic Inlrmetln  HOA   i
eaergy Cansultants  A daleary asPIres became,  used In tetealsian  E-
serVlces Iproved lalarmatiaon (bat ion made Wl;th s uc esNs stre sol imeud  Audite vga vat moat the
PvC)              0Apil            demend
i                                                          aaPidsd lo impiacd
I                       Pralact review perlarmad  *~~~p--duc  MOF end G01
Number at. proet-d Stl t aked t.PIa h-a eth.
-i    y S-vy h..   -aun.tspPan lunds is used
thtdditant .1Pubti.  aeI-rt ""'n
inthom.t iniiinotwor  Approved Dcc 1S99
ged Dto99
advibO i0 Aduieari-y Centr
enough    to inv-l- in Wntlet project
jiuivaistelte7f fr twsor y+ 
I Canines employed sod 
Loan pracaduras aim pilfledl s  Enar9y ConsAteats dvoycnr prep-
end Initial ienhnual advICe II nenstfysupyor lathlIIsmihdeeg ulsfr                             Grant approved by theI
by Advisory Centres  | pronu ement and  |                                                    00 HO  lcslnAd|jI'|GtIn Oaember t9dO|
Loan procedures tutie                     g             Ma"ssve Pub v   i                           d "
9            | sImpilfled and ~~clerIliad                               a lnometlon 200000 cOpissl  norg  saraE1naumber  Furl her slreamPlnig 
19 9   I Procedimes ton grant 1I1l'k| of Jauisus Namnl to                I  at of app lcanes and  t | proceduros and dII  |
ropreparod and 101 raved  |       ;                  i    a*dve isad grant  |t                   POlIsotii ....... . d  G oll on 
[~~~~~~~P ch |up |t Ens gy        pa  thar HDAurmn enud|
iC| 5C aniDte eapiree 0 |u|snveartCithemDsei|e
d.esil.le uppjr W   i               'rcast iowaa         f1iPulanometiaW
25110                                                        L..P sJ  'tIrngiemeotetiafl.. I 0 0 i  !  f|
I9                    I                                            l aCl-ln- dl.  nded by61
'~ ~~~~I !    '                      IJun5htl ue2001
2D01                                                     1 J.k- N...       lunde disbursed (June
Figure 3 - Main events of the residential project component from                preparation until disbursement of all
funds.
- 35 -



Speed of registration of the projects.
P               (10 day average) (only VAC and
r                         KLAC)
0
e  12
C
t  10
8
per 6
M   4
0
n   2                      _
t   0
h 1-jan-97    1-jan-98  1-jan-99   1 -jan-00  31-dec-00
Figure 4 - Number of HOAs initiating building renovation projects per month. Includes only projects, which
were later completed. The 30% grant was introduced in early 1999.
The loan
The loans for HOAs were offered in local currency Litas (4Lt = US$1) at 11% interest rate with 10%
down-payment (could be replaced by investments already made) and maximum 10 year maturity. The State
grant was calculated as 30% of the loan principal but not exceeding 50 Lt (US$12.5) per m2 of living area.
In addition to the grant there was a partial VAT exemption for HOAs and individual homeowners. Figure 5
shows a typical example of the financing scheme.
Pro ect financed with ETB loan and grant
Lt         Litas/m2
A  Total investment including VAT                        100,000.00     50.00
B  Downpayment, cash                                      5,000.00       2.50
C  Downpayment, presented invoice for investment already made  5,000.00  2.50
D  To be financed                                        95,000.00      47.50
E  VAT exception                                         13,725.00       6.86
F  To be financed excluding VAT                          81,275.00      40.64
G  30% Grant                                             24,382.50      12.19
H  To be financed by ETB loan                            56,892.50      28.45
l  Actual investment                                     61,892.50      30.95
% of total investment paid by HOA                         62%
_ % of total investment as support                         38% 1
Figure 5 - Example of 100,000 Lt (US$25,000) investment for a 2000 m2 building.
The loan repayment was shared between homeowners according to an agreement made in General Meeting,
typically according to an apartment size. In numerous projects including window replacement some
homeowners did not replace windows and thus paid less. The repayment schedule was linear with equal
repayment of principal and payment of accruing interest, which made repayment calculations rather time
consuming. The bank was accepting premature repayments.
- 36 -



The Implemented renovation projects
Measures
Initially most projects were limited to renovation of a heating system, but after introduction of the grant
replacement of windows and insulation of walls became more popular, in particular among more wealthy
homeowners in Vilnius and Klaipeda. A total of 982 energy efficiency measures were included in 229
projects, amounting to 4.3 per project. Figure 6 shows an overview of implemented measures. Selection of
measurers was based on two principles: (1) to include measures which would ensure increased energy
efficiency; and (2) to include measures that would prolong the lifetime of the buildings and by that increase
the amount of energy saved. The latter included measures important for building maintenance: replacement
of pipes and radiators, replacement of valves, repair of walls and joints between panels in panel buildings,
repair of sewage system and repair of leaking roofs.
Implemented saving measures (982 measures in 229 projects)
50DW
4SD
400 -
350~~~~~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O ther
300 -O Ibofs and f loors
290 -                             '                                 Walls
* Widows and doors
.......W:            o 1bating system
150                                                               0 D.bstation
1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
Figure 6 - Implemented measures in 229 projects by year.
Savings
For 96 out of 229 implemented projects by HOAs a rough estimation of savings was performed based on
consumption data during heating seasons before and after implementation. The investments in these 96
projects varied from less than US$ 250 per apartment to more than US$ 3,500 per apartment with an
average close to US$ 1,000.
The monitoring showed a very large spread in savings, from significant additional consumption to more
than 50% reduction (see Figure 7) with an average value for normal year of 17% (without adjustment for
comfort change). In reality many homeowners preferred increased comfort for savings and raised indoor
temperature (see Figure 8). A rough estimation showed that without this increase the average saving would
have been 25% - Figure 7.
- 37 -



Distribution of savings for 96 nKnitored projects. Average 25% with
comfort adjusted saving and 17 % with actual saving.
25
u,20
--4--Co mfort
2. 15                                                                          adjusted
saving
0
.a 10 l                                                                  - _  * Actual
E                                                                              saving
z 
0*
o  0  0   ~0   0    01   0   0         0    0   0    0
U)  '~  I')  N  '   '-   C   C?)                    C9L  O  - O
n   6         6   6     0    0  ,     -,        .   0    0,C
O   t')  N    -             - o                LO)  CD o -o
Saving, percentage
Figure 7 - Distribution of savings for 96 monitored projects. The actual saving is based on consumption
before/after renovation referred to the normative year. The comfort adjusted savings take into account
increased comfort level after renovation.
BEFORE RENOVATION          AFTER RENOVATION
Too cold     .Tool
Normal Zi    |o 4             Normal e           d
Too hot  C] 10,8             Too hot 11.6
Don't fl                      Dont  .
know Li                      know -J
Figure 8 - Indoor comfort before and after building renovation Source: Survey of 250 homeowners in 50
HOAs, Baltic Surveys, October 2001
Higher investments generally resulted in higher savings but there were rather large variations. Figure 9
indicates a comfort adjusted savings of about 40% for investments of about US$ 2,500 per apartment
dropping to 20% for investments below US$ 750. The large spread means that it is very difficult to
forecast savings for a particular building. Savings do not only depend on the measures implemented but
very much on the specific conditions before implementation and in particular on management of energy
- 38 -



consumption. Therefore further initiatives in demand side management are important.
Saving, referred to normative year, as a function of investment per
apartment
100%    :
n  Svn. -fo.ad nr
-20%/   do400       rco   .o100      200  100d 
A~~~~~
A     A AA         AAca s~
40%                                                A     -a ning
60%     A
InvestrnrtnL Lits Ar  A-            Lin ar(Saving
0%  A      a      a   c                              adjasted)
4000  6000  8000  10000  12000  14000
AA          A
-20%          A                                   - - -Linear (Ad.al
Figur 10 sows te reatinbtenahee               saving    ) n  h  pcfccnupino  h  uligbfr
A
-60%
Investmient. Ltas per aparOinert
Figure 9 - Savings for 96 monitored projects as a function of the investment (including VAT and grant) per
apartment. Actual savings and comfort adjusted savings. (4 Lt =US$1)
Figure 10 shows the relation between achieved savings and the specific consumption of the building before
renovation. It is clear that renovation of buildings and heating systems in buildings with very low
consumption before renovation (underheated) resulted in an increased consumption. High initial specific
consumption generally meant higher savings, but still with very large spread. This indicates that a forecast
of energy savings should include an analysis of specific consumption for the particular type of building and
a comparison with other similar buildings.
- 39 -



Saving percentage (actual saving) as a function of spedfic
consumption before renovation
80%
Xx           x         X.
60%                                      '
xx
2 40%       -                   X
- 0%-               X
. ~~~~Spedif c consurrptlon before renovation~ kWNhlf per semon..
Figure 10 - The actual savings for 96 monitored projects, consumption before/after renovation referred to
normative year as a function of the specific consumption before renovation.
Financial benefits and loan repayment
Pay back time
The simple pay back time from the consumer point of view is calculated by dividing actual investment
(down payment plus loan amount) by savings achieved during the first year. The pay back timne for the 96
monitored projects is presented in Figure 11. As can be seen the State grant was required to make the
investments more attractive for homeowners. The spread in savings leads to similarly large variations in
simple pay back times for implemented projects as illustrated in Figure 12.
Based on total       Based on homeowner's
investment           investment (VAT exemption
and grant).
Based on comfort adjusted savings  11                7
Based on actual savings         17                   12
Figure 11 - Simple pay back times for the monitored projects considered together as one project (for normal
year, heat cost of US$37.5 per MWh).
-40 -



Pay back time (actual) as a function of total Investment per apartment
100
90 
80
Pay 70
back 60
time,
years 50
40
30 -
20
10      ..      *              -    , * *
0      2000     4000     6000     8000    10000    12000   14000
Investment per apartment
Figure 12 - The pay back time based on the actual savings as a function of the investment per apartment.
Cost of energy US$37.5 per MWh. Includes only the monitored projects with positive savings.
Net present value
The net present value gives better evaluation of the project. Figure 13 shows the sum of net present values
(for HOAs) for all 96 monitored projects using a discount rate of 7% and a cost of heating of US$37.5 per
MWh. Expenses include downpayment and monthly payments for the loan. Incomes are heat savings.
The net present value for all projects after 10 years based on actual savings is - US$ 1.5 million. It could
be expected that homeowners will increase the comfort when they can afford it and when the heating system
allows it. It is therefore most relevant to consider the net present value based on comfort adjusted savings.
With a 10 year period this is still negative, but becomes positive if a period of 15 years is considered, or if
a part of investment is considered as a maintenance or renovation cost and not included in the net present
value calculation. An increase in cost of energy above inflation lead to a substantial increase in net present
value.
NPV, US$
mln.
I      NPV: After 10 years, based on actual saving.                       -1.5
2      NPV: After 10 years, based on comfort adjusted saving             -0.425
3      NPV: After 10 years, based on comfort adjusted savings. Assuming 50%  0.975
of expenses and payments is for maintenance.
4      NPV: After 15 years, based on comfort adjusted saving.             0.375
5      NPV: After 15 years, based on comfort adjusted saving. Assuming 3%  1.075
_   yearly net-increase in cost of energy.
Figure 13 - The sum of net present values for the 96 monitored projects on different conditions. Discount rate
7%. Cost of energy at the outset US$37.5 per MWh.
- 41 -



Loan repayment
During the project preparation period there were many concerns regarding loan repayment, i.e. that
homeowners would not be able or willing to repay the loan. The experience showed that repayment caused
fewer problems and many loans were repaid in advance, even though one third of the surveyed homeowners
found the loan repayment a significant burden - see Figure 14. Some homeowners repaid their part of the
loan immediately indicating that loan repayment was not a burden for them at all.
Assessment of the burden is clearly dependent on income level, even taking into consideration that the
majority of low-income households were eligible for heating subsidies. About 35% found the repayment a
significant burden and 2% unbearable, indicating that investments could not be much higher.
7flN       uI                     i5lontlfilv lhouselioldi iiconie
flIMIceai.ui     Up to 500 501-700 701-1000 1001-1400  1401 Lt
Lt       Lt       Lt       Lt    and more     All
nbearable         9.7%     3 0'o     .        .         -2 (i
SigniFicani        64.5%    48.5%   33 3   33 30%]   16 40%,   34 8%(1
nsignificant      19.4%    30.3%    38.3%    47.1%    41.8%     36.8%
egligible          -      18.2%    26.7%    19.6%    41.8%      24.8%
Don't know         6.5%       -      1.7%      -         -        1.6%
Number of           31       33       60                55        250
respondents*        3
Figure 14 - Loan burden on household budgets for different income groups (4Lt = US$1). Source: Survey of
250 homeowners in 50 HOAs, Baltic Surveys, October 2001
According to the survey about 1/4 of homeowners found that the loan is financed by the savings, and more
than half that it was an extra burden - Figure 15. The tariffs for district heating increased in most cases and
this may have influenced the response. A social subsidy scheme (available for project participants) helped
low income families to cope with the loan repayment and enabled them to participate in the project. Seven
percent of the surveyed claimed that the allowances covered the loan repayment.
Loan repayment is covered by savings in lieating costs          23
!Loan repayment is covered by heating subsidy                   7
Loan repayment is an extra expenditure compared to before renovation  61
Don't know                                                      9
Total _.                  .                                     100
Figure 15 - Where does the money for loan repayment come from. Survey of 250 homeowners in 50 HOAs,
Baltic Surveys, October 2001
-42 -



Institutional development
The institutional development resulting from, or supported by the EEHPP was rather substantial.
Awareness and organizational level of numerous HOAs increased. Surveys showed that HOAs which
participated in the project changed their attitude towards loan financing of building renovation projects as
57% of them are willing to take another loan and 90% would recommend other associations to do so.
A pool of private consultants gained valuable experience in servicing homeowners and have now access to
relevant tools and methodologies. Advisory Centers have gained valuable experience and their skilled staff
is currently involved in training of housing administrators and supporting municipalities in housing sector
related issues. The HUDF have developed into a capable institution involved in implementation of large
multilateral projects.
Concluding remarks
The main barriers for investments in energy efficiency and building renovation were: (1) lack of trust in
higher volume communal undertakings; (2) resistance against communal financial arrangements involving
banks; (3) resistance from needy homeowners who can not afford to participate in building improvements;
and (4) expectations that somebody else (municipality, State) should take care of multi-family buildings.
The Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project demonstrated that homeowners are able to overcome these
barriers, at least in the pilot project arrangement, if sufficiently supported. A precondition for communal
investments is an adequate legal framework enabling homeowners to: (1) form associations; (2) make
majority decisions; and (3) ensure enforcement of obligations of individual homeowners.
Repayment of loans can be a significant burden for the poorest part of homeowners and thus a support
system that enables them to participate in common projects is needed. In the longer term a greater mobility
in the housing market is preferable because the society should not pay for homeowners who live in
apartments they can not afford.
Housing maintenance is not a major priority for households therefore financing of common building
improvements via bank credits is a significant challenge. Experience from the Energy Efficiency Housing
Pilot Project shows that very direct and independent organizational support is important, which was
provided by the regional Advisory Centers. A second success constituent was effectively performed
building renovations which were publicized via information campaigns and social contacts in the
neighborhood.
Although the recorded increase in energy efficiency have been achieved in many projects, the financial pay
back time of investments was somehow larger than expected, and varied a lot from building to building.
Many investments were not feasible from exclusively energy saving point of view and therefore it is
important to consider other aspects of renovation, i.e. prolongation of building lifetime and reduction of
future maintenance expenses.
- 43 -



The 30% State grant helped homeowners to overcome initial resistance and make investments. This grant is
justified by associated societal benefits related to reduced energy consumption and fuel imports, increased
employment, additional tax revenues and positive environmental impact.
The project funds available for improvemnents of residential buildings were limited. Local commercial
banks are still not interested in this market segment and therefore main financial sources for multi-family
building improvements remain household monthly incomes and cash savings. Therefore it is important to
ensure sustainable financing of multifamily building retrofits. Future undertakings should utilize the
potential demand and capacity established in the framework of the Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project
and find credit enhancements designed to attract local commercial lending to this market segment.
- 44 -



Additional Annex 9. Cofinancier's Contribution
Comments received from the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs (excerpt from Consultant's Final
Report under the Project which is on file):
1.     LESSONS LEARNED and RECOMMENDATIONS
1.1    Reference Data for Energy Consumption of School Buildings
The full consultant's report presents a one page overview with performance indicators. This sheet is based
only on the three schools in Kaunas. To provide municipalities with short information about possibilities,
we suggest to develop this page further in Excel with some simple calculation sheets behind this
presentation formn. This form can be made more specific for a certain school.
1.2    Renovation of Windows
In the three examples presented in this report, most of the windows are replaced by new ones. We propose
also to investigate the opportunities for refurbishment of the window frames.
1.3    Detailed Monitoring in Schools
An analysis of the correct operation of the substation is necessary to check whether the activities are
correctly executed by the installer. We suggest to start detailed monitoring for a short period during the
heating season. One short period of three weeks at the start-up of the heating season and three weeks in a
real winter period. We propose to invite students from polytechnical high schools or from technical
universities for the execution;
1.4    Hydraulic Balancing of the Heating System
The experience till now shows that a good hydraulic balancing of the heating system is the basis for a good
functioning of the system. This item is really underestimated. It is not clear for us whether the installers
well trained and equipped for this job. We suggest to investigate which tools are required for the support of
the installers;
1.5    Renovation Investment versus Energy Saving Investments
The experience till now shows that a big part of the implemented energy saving measures are more related
to 'cure' the lack of maintenance. We propose to split up clearly the investments between measures related
to maintenance and measures related to energy savings. The pay-back calculation what belongs to energy
saving will be more realistic;
1.6    Energy Prices
The experience till now shows that the price for energy will continuously increase, each year. This has a
positive effect on the pay-back time.
-45 -



1.7    The School Building Stock
The energy performance of the current school building stock is generally very poor. Therefore actions to
invest in energy saving activities are very favorable. Measures in energy saving actions are very profitable,
giving a good pay-back performance.
1.8    Planning of the Maintenance
The new investments have to fit into a sustainable policy. The school owners have make yearly budget
allocations for maintenance. There are three methods for maintenance budgeting:
1.    failure maintenance;
2.     preventive maintenance by using maintenance cycle and cost; and
3.     condition-based maintenance by regular inspecting.
The planning of the maintenance depends on the method of budgeting.
We have no clear view what the state of the art is in Lithuania. We propose to give strong attention to this
item.
1.9    New technologies
Introduction of new technology, like solar energy, Photo Voltaic etc. are too expensive till now. Promotion
of sustainable energy can be realized by special incentives.
1.10   Introduction of energy saving incentives
A start is already made by the introduction of subsidies for energy saving investments.
1.11   Further recommendations
With regard to the monitoring of schools and the further development of technical assistance with
preparation and implementation of school projects we would like to give the following items into
consideration:
Monitoring of schools
The set up and execution of monitoring cannot be seen apart from the project preparation and project
implementation. The same information structure and most of the data that is used for the energy audit
report and the investment project is needed for the monitoring reports of the schools. We therefore suggest:
To develop formats for energy audit reports and investment projects for school projects and to
require formally that these formats will be used for the reports. As example the formats of the reports
presented in the "Guidelines and Tools for Energy Consultants" could be taken. In this way the consultants
are not troubled with new methods/approaches and can continue their work in a smooth way;
To identify the data needed for the HUDF, the Ministry of Education, the Consultants etc.;
To set up a database for project data and monitor data of schools. When the energy audit reports
- 46 -



and investment project reports have an uniform structure, it requires only limited effort to enter the project
data in each phase of the project. For the information to be included in the database we would like to refer
to the data presented in the document "Proposed monitoring report for schools". Furthermore it would be
useful to review the preparative works for the school renovation program that have been executed for the
Ministry of Education. As far as we know, Eksergija, Siltas Namas, the technical University of Vilnius
were involved. For this project the information need was analyzed (for energy efficiency as well as due
maintenance and modemization), a database was set up and analyses of the results were performed; and
To include in the loan agreement the obligation for the municipality to provide monitoring reports
according to the required format after the implementation of the project. Preferably the monitoring period
will be three years with every year a report. These obligations can be included in the contract of the energy
consultant who assists with the project preparation and implementation.
Energy Management
Energy Management and a regular check of the settings and functioning of automatic control systems are
needed to avoid spilling of energy. The monitoring of the school projects shows that in most cases no
attention was paid to proper adjustment of control equipment and regular checks during operation. Because
of this lack of attention the energy consumption in the monitored schools was about 7 - 10 % higher than
needed. To tackle these problems the advise is to introduce a method for energy management and to agree
with the actors involved on their role and tasks. We would like to make the following recommendations:
Formalize in the loan agreements that an energy management program has to be introduced by the
municipality after the implementation of the project. During the first three years after implementation of the
project, the municipality has to report about the results of the energy management;
Set up a structure for energy management. The methodology for energy management is well known
and has been worked out already for apartment buildings, so it should not be difficult to work out a tailor
made approach for the schools in Lithuania;
Include in the terms of reference for the suppliers of the heating installations the obligation that
they have to adjust and test the automatic control systems. In the Netherlands this is arranged in such a way
that after the start of the heating season during one week the main parameters of the heating installation are
recorded on the basis of which the adjustments are optimized. After about three months i.e. in mid winter,
the main parameters are recorded again during one week and the adjustments are optimized. This approach
could also be used in Lithuania, or it could for example be arranged through a separate service contract
with a maintenance company; and
As it is the experience that it is difficult to keep people motivated to continue with energy
management on the long term, it is recommended to build in incentives in the energy management approach.
Such incentives could for example be that the school can benefit of the saved energy costs (to buy
schoolbooks etc) and/or to use the energy management program as education for the students. In the
Netherlands, a reference energy consumption is determined for each school; when the real energy
consumption is lower then the reference, the school gets the cost savings for their own benefit, but in case
the energy consumption is higher the school has to pay the extra costs from its own pocket. Several
packages of education material are available and we know that Cedra developed a draft set of material
including environmental issues.
For energy management, the following actions can be taken:
-47 -



*      one person in the school must be selected and instructed;
*      the work will consist of reading out of the heat meter, the outside air temperature and some inside
air temperatures (e.g. with min/max thermometers) on a regular basis;
registration of thermometer values of the substation on regular basis; and
analysis of this data with an expert during the heating season.
Advisory Centers
The Advisory Centers (AC) could arrange the organization around the monitoring and energy
management. In this case it is recommended that:
*      Clear arrangements with the energy consultants (Lithuanian Association of Energy Consultants)
will be made about the work division. For example, the support to the municipalities and energy education
will be provided by the AC and more technical parts like testing and adjustment of automation equipment,
analyses of energy consumption for monitoring purposes etc. will be done by the energy consultants;
Provisions will be made for the transfer of monitor and energy management data from the AC to
the HUDF database. This could for example be included in the information network that will be built with
Dutch Technical assistance; and
The AC and the energy consultants will get training about the monitoring and energy management
approach to be introduced.
Guidelines tools
The development and revision of guidelines and tools for energy consultants for energy renovation of
schools. Most of the material can be used with limited adaptations. However, some parts need a more
substantial revision:
The calculation method for the analyses of the energy consumption and the calculation of the
savings has to be revised. This is rather important because there is a need for a uniform calculation method
to get accurate monitoring results;
The formats for Energy Audit, the Investment Project and the monitoring report have to be
updated; and
Monitoring results of schools have to be included;
Procurement procedures have to be adjusted.
-48 -



