Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15397-LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY/HOUSING PILOT PROJECT
JUNE 7, 1996
Municipal and Social Services
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May, 1996)
Currency Unit   =    Litas (LT)
LT I   =    US$0.25
US$1    =    LT 4.0
MEASUREMENT
Degrees Fahrenheit (F∞)   =    Degrees Centigrade (CO) x 1.8 + 32
Square feet I   =    0.09 Square Meter (sqm)
MWh I   =    0.86 Gcal (Giga calorie)
Kilojoules (KJ)   =    1,000 Joules
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHA         Association of Homeowners' Associations
BOL         Bank of Lithuania
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFRI         Credit Fund for Renovation and Insulation of
Houses and Apartments
DH         District Heating
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EU         European Union
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
FSU         Former Soviet Union
GOL         Government of Lithuania
HCF         Housing Credit Foundation
HOA         Homeowners' Association
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
LPC         Lithuanian Power Corporation
MCUD          Ministry of Construction and Urban
Development
MOE          Ministry of Energy
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
OP         Operating Procedures
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PFI        Participating Financial Institution
RF         Revolving Fund
RR         Rate of Return
LITHUANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



Itb N.O ..L.l. VN3INNO33a  UNV SINaNIIITOV    IA
6£.loedrui A4xaAOd A
SC ............................ o.... . .          ..  ..........                                  ..   d lJo uoinq!1s                a
S. ..           ...edwijo joi!q1eumsnS pue uonl,di3lx.ed j)
7                                                   .......................                     ..                s3s!ir 13(Obd 8I
Z.   -.  srsXleuV loeduIu nd
Z. ........... ..............................................                             NOULV II  AI                N OIONOO  I              *A
..................................  " " 'l                             ..................    ipnV               pin     slunozazV   -
6Z   ..........................................................                                         .... sluo w      asimnqs!a     G
L.slua w aJnqsid u
9z   ....................................................... uo                     nA3 pue   u uoiO     'uo!siuAdnS  -E
zz .......................................................s                                    muaicu V  uorieiuanuit dwl v
z ........................ -,-,---,----                                             NOI1VIN3W                 IdPWI I3O fO 2d                  Al
i Z.pu.nj aU1AjOAgJ t .IOj SUOt13[oljd Ite'uMuA 3
61... tuud pue 'X1ij!qepJoiqjl 4IWAO30-d 1SO:) a
L.I ....                                                                                               w .....ue.sv suIpwuQo -J
91 ...............................I...............U ue   u i3urU1A -8
91                                                                                                   S01Ufl1S3SOD lSOMoi d v
91.... .........    ...- SJLDdSV 'IVIDNVNId (NV SJLS0J 1JfO'd   '111
Z.......                                                         .ll ..............          . ..... uodusG    Od 'D
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I.. . . .  .....   " I'll ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ... ..S AaIr   q o   ag
11.-sIsaua9 13aIlOd N
11.                                                                -.- i.JHfO21d 3H1                                                           'if
. -...... -                                                                               a3uadxq pue galej1S 'ue 3
9 .........................................................................suIeJOJd pute SaI3Iod IUZUnUJAO9  a
............................................................                              u nu ,l  ui Jolo3s !UsnOH  a4nL  J
............................................   -e ennipl  Ui olooS  glvH  pue è                                        uJaU3 ;)L U 
................................... -           .        .suawdolaAaßl owouoog luoaaJ sli puue &lunoD  ay)  1                      V
. -                 -UNf1OdDXJV  'I- 'VO1DHS                                                                                                      I
S1i31UNOD AO ari'ifV1
.34∞JJ d  I!d  uiSnlOH / 13WPUR £2vUl21u
VIN VfHJLI AO 3HflJd3H
ULIOJ132 rivSIvHcdV JIVIS



A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations ................................................. 41
B. Conditions of Effectiveness ................................................                      42
C. Conditions of Disbursement ................................................ 42
D. Recommendation ................................................                                   42
TABLES
Table 3. 1: Project Costs.   ...................................................... 16
Table 3.2: Financing Plan ......................................................                              17
Table 4. 1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million) ...................... ................. 29
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories ...................................................... 30
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements (US$ million) .            ...................................................... 30
Table 5.1: Base Case: Project FRR and ERR ......................................................              34
Table 5.2: Project Risks, Mitigation, and Effects on Returns ...................................................... 37
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Social Assessment .43
Annex 2:    Effects and Risks associated with the Residential Heating Subsidy .51
Annex 3: Technical Details .55
Annex 4: Affordability and Subsidy Analysis .63
Annex 5:  Technical Assistance and Institutional Development .68
Annex 6:  Financial Projections for a Revolving Fund .70
Annex 7: Eligibility Criteria .73
Annex 8: Monitoring and Evaluation .79
Annex 9: Supervision Plan .85
Annex 10: Estimated Disbursement Schedule .86
Annex I 1: Detailed Procurement Arrangements .87
Annex 12: Economic Analysis .90
Annex 13: Environmental Review .98
MAP              IBRD No. 26177
This report is based on the findings of preparations missions and an appraisal mission which visited
Lithuania in the last 18 months. Mats Andersson (Task Manager) and Monika Weber-Fahr (Co-task
Manager) were assisted by several teams including consultants and World Bank staff with expertise in
areas related to the project components, including: Ivy Cheng, Eric Peterson, Yoshine Uchimura (EC4MS),
Alessandra Iorio (LEGEC), Anke Meyer (IENPD), Cesar Fort (LAIPS), Ramune Zabuliene (EC4BS),
Stan Peabody (EMTEN), and consultants V. Viswanathan, Marc Bellanger, SWECO, Deniz Baharoglu,
Vida Augustauskiene. Department Director: Basil Kavalsky, Division Chief: Thomas Blinkhorn. Peer
Reviewers: Joseph Gilling (IENPD), Dennis Whittle (EC3C2), and Margaret Thalwitz (EC4AU).



REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY / HOUSING PILOT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Lithuania
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Construction and Urban Development (MCUD), Ministry of
Finance, and the municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas (possibly others).
Beneficiaries:           Homeowners and homeowvners' associations, participating municipalities,
participating commercial banks, MCUD, construction industry.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable.
IBRD Loan Amount:        US$10.0 million
Loan Terms:              Payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at standard LIBOR-
based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans with an
expected disbursement period of four years.
Commnitment Fee:         0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         The onlending terms are designed in a manner consistent with the pilot nature
of the operation, so as to ensure that the project's expected demonstration
effects and the economic externalities will be achieved. They will be
reviewed and revised as appropriate at regular intervals throughout
implementation.
(i) For residential energy efficiency rehabilitations - from the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) through participating commercial banks to homeownersI
associations and individual homeowners in local currency for three to ten
years maturity at fixed rates, with Government assuming the foreign
exchange risk. The banks would: (a) bear full credit risk for lending to
owners of single family homes and individual apartments, and charge an
agreed spread; and (b) bear no risk for lending to homeowners' associations
for which they would receive an administrative fee for service based on
disbursed and collected funds (during project implementation, commercial
banks will be given the option to switch to full or partial credit-risk bearing
for lending to homeowners' associations). Funds will be onlent, for the first
six months of project implementation, at an interest rate of 15% (consumer
rate) which is expected to provide an incentive for homeowners to participate
in the project. The size of the Government contribution will depend on the
difference between an applicable market reference rate and the consumer
rate. The onlending terms will be reviewed and adjusted semi-annually based
on market rates and borrower acceptance. For transparency, beneficiaries



- 11 -
will be notified regularly of the market reference rate and the Government
contribution received.
(ii) For energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools - from MOF to
municipalities on the same terms as the Bank loan to the Republic of
Lithuania.
Project Objectives:        This project is a pilot or demonstration effort that aims to: (i) support private
initiative to improve residential energy efficiency; (ii) support public
initiatives in improving energy efficiency in schools; and (iii) support the
implementation of Government policies to sustain the privatization of
housing, enabling increased private initiative in housing maintenance in
general. The project will: (a) promote and facilitate energy efficiency
rehabilitation of buildings, introducing technically and economically
attractive packages of measures which are affordable to a broad range of
citizens; (b) promote private initiative in housing and energy efficiency
through supporting the organization of homeowners into functioning
associations able to take charge of their buildings and housing maintenance;
(c) support municipalities in the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools
for demonstration purposes, (d) develop the use of private energy consultants
for housing retrofits, and (e) introduce the commercial banking sector to the
concept of long-term lending for housing and housing improvements.
Project Description:       The proposed project would consist of the following three components: (a) credit,
through commercial banks, for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation, with
incentives for homeowners to encourage participation; (b) energy efficiency
rehabilitation of schools in selected municipalities; and (c) institutional
strengthening, to be achieved through substantial technical assistance to address
key issues with all relevant stakeholders, including homeowners and their
associations, commercial banks, and contractors and energy efficiency
consultants. As part of the institutional strengthening, several policy studies
will be undertaken to develop recommendations for government policy
regarding assistance to the housing sector and a detailed action plan to
refocus and target the existing assistance to the neediest in society.
Project Benefits:          The main benefit of this pilot project lies in its focus on private initiative in
housing, encouraging individuals and groups of citizens to take charge of
their housing assets, something still very new in former Soviet Union (FSU)
countries. Supporting individuals to participate in homeowners' associations
is expected to improve and sustain the privatization of housing, and the
citizens' approach and commitment to democratic decision-making processes
and organizations. While these benefits are hard to quantify, the project's
quantifiable benefits, evaluated based on resource savings to the economy,
are expected to be substantial, as demonstrated in an economic rate of return
of approximately 26%. Other non-quantifiable benefits lie in the project's
demand side focus which is expected to increase awareness among citizens of
their ability to change consumption patterns and conserve energy. This
would, provide, over time, an incentive for the energy supply side to



- ill -
undertake system rehabilitations, and reduce the reliance on imported fuel
with related reduction in air pollution. Other benefits include learning by the
banking sector about long-term lending to the retail market, some local
employment generation, introducing competitive bidding procedures in the
selection of contractors, and potential development of new construction
methods and building materials. The experiences of this pilot project will
form the foundation for a larger program in the sector. Energy efficiency
rehabilitation of schools will have a demonstration and informational effect.
Also, through this pilot project, organizational, technical and financial
mechanisms will be tested that may work in other FSU countries as well.
Project Riskr:             Since this is the first pilot project in the sector supported by the Bank,
various quantifiable and non-quantifiable risks exist that may endanger
successful project implementation. Quantifiable risks relate to incentives: (a)
that the Government will not adjust heating tariffs and/or existing heating
subsidy programs appropriately, and hence make the cash flow of
investments not sufficiently attractive to individual households; (b) that
energy savings have been overestimated; (c) that the costs for the
rehabilitation measures rise significantly; and (d) that interest rates may raise
so as to deem the project-specific Government contribution unsustainable.
Given the severe Government budget constraints, it is unlikely, however, that
the Government would not adjust heating tariffs to full cost recovery,
similarly, heating subsidies would be expected to be directed to low income
households only. The relationship between market interest rate and the level
of the project-specific Government contribution will be reviewed semi-
annually and adjusted as necessary so as to maintain viability of the project.
Even in the worst case, sensitivity analysis has shown that economic rates of
return are unlikely to fall below 10%. Other risks, specifically related to the
institutional and behavioral environment within which the project will be
implemented are that: (a) the organizational capabilities of homeowners and
their associations are overestimated; (b) too few households will be able or
villing to participate; and; (c) homeowners' associations may not be able to
fulfill the role of borrowers and significant payment arrears will occur. To
mitigate these risks, a test and learning activity was undertaken as part of
project preparation with four homeowners' associations which provided valu-
able information for project design and for the design of a comprehensive as-
sistance package for homeowners and their associations. The scope of the
project has been kept relatively small which will facilitate implementation of
the technical assistance components. The risk of deficiencies in the enforce-
ment of loan repayments will be reduced through project eligibility criteria,
and by having the loans managed by commercial banks.
Public Participation:      Potential beneficiaries of the project were involved in its design through the
test program with four homeowners' associations (apartment buildings)
providing information regarding affordability aspects, perceptions and views
about their housing, and the need for assistance to their associations.
Continued participation is ensured by the project design under which



- iv -
homeowners, through their associations and assisted by consultants, will
themselves identify and determine the work to be undertaken in their
buildings, organize necessary decision-making processes, arrange for
financing, carry out the procurement of works, and participate in the
monitoring of energy efficiency impacts. The project coordination unit
(PCU) in the Housing Credit Foundation (HCF) will arrange for active
assistance to the beneficiaries, before-and-after-beneficiary assessments, and
launch public information programs based on the experiences of this pilot
project.
Environmental Aspects:     The project is expected to have a beneficial envirownental impact through
conservation of energy resources and a concomitant reduction in the by-
products of fuel combustion. Although these benefits are not expected to
be large, due to the limited resources available and the pilot nature of the
operation, a significant multiplier effect is to be expected in the medium
term. A project-specific risk mitigation procedure has been designed for
identification, handling and disposal of hazardous material that might be
encountered during renovation works. The project has been rated as
environmental screening category B.
Poverty Aspects:           Even though the project will have no direct impact in alleviating poverty,
credits provided through the project will be the only source of funds available
to low income households for energy efficiency rehabilitations. Rising energy
prices affect the poor particularly harshly and any savings will particularly
benefit them. A policy reform study will focus on a reorientation of existing
housing subsidies to provide greater benefit to neediest groups. The project
will also institute a tracking mechanism and closely monitor actual impact
and experiences.
Economic Rate of Return:   Overall economic rate of return of approximately 26%.
Map:                      IBRD Number 26177
Project ID Number:        LT-PA-35 163



Estimated Project Cost by Project Component:
Project Costs
Millions of US$ a_/
Project Component                                        Local    Foreign      Total
b_l
1. Residential Rehabilitation (sub-loans)                 9.0        6.1        15.1
II. Rehabilitation of Schools                             1.2        1.0        2.2
III. Institutional Development and                        1.1        1.7        2.8
Technical Assistance
Base Costs (in September 1995 prices)                     11.3       8.8       20.1
Price Contingencies c_/                                   0.3        0.2        0.5
Total Project Costs                                       11.6       9.0        20.6
a_/    The relation between local and foreign costs may change depending on the local inflation and
exchange rate movements.
b_I    Primarily imported heating equipment and roof material.
c_/    Physical contingencies were not calculated since the loan is considered a sector/subsector loan.
Financing Plan:
Estimated Project Financing
US$ million           Percentage
Local   Foreign   Total   of Total Cost
Government of Lithuania                        6.5        -        6.5       31%
Municipal Governments                          0.5        -        0.5        2%
Private beneficiaries                          1.6       -         1.6        8%
Donors                                         0.3       1.7       2.0        10%
World Bank                                     2.7       7.3      10.0       49%
Total Project Costs                           11.6      9.0      20.6        100%
Note:   Donor financing of US$2.0 million has been informally committed for institutional development and
technical assistance. Government is seeking an additional US$0.9 million for the same component.
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
Disbursements Estimates by Bank Fiscal Year (US$ million)
Institution:   FY 1997         FY 1998         FY 1999          FY2000           Total
IBRD              0.6             2.7             3.2             3.5             10.0






- I -
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.     THE COUNTRY AND ITS RECENT ECoNOMiC DEVELOPMENTS
1.1     When independence was regained, Lithuania inherited an economy that was relatively well
developed in comparison with other countries of the former Soviet Union (FSU). Since then, the
Government has been engaged in a massive effort to transform the centrally planned economy into a
market oriented economy. Substantial progress in the transition to a market economy has been
made, most notably in the areas of price     Box 1: Country Profie
reform, privatization and trade reform. After   Lithuania is the southernmost and largest Baltic country
a decline in real GDP of about 55% between    with a territory of 65,200 square miles. More than 80
1991 and 1993, real GDP turned around in     percent of its population of 3.7 million are of Lithuani-
1994, when it is estimated to have increased    an origin, and about 600,000 people live in the capital,
by about 1.5 percent.' The decline in output   Vilnius. Lithuania lies on the eastern shore of the Baltic
has not led to a rapid increase in open      Sea and borders Latvia to the north, Belarus to the east,
unemployment; enterprises have relied        and Poland and Russia's Kaliningrad region to the
increasingly on unpaid leave and shorter     south. Lithuania has a variety of natural resources but
working hours. Real wages declined           no significant domestic source for its sizable fuel needs.
dramatically, although they have recently    The climate is cold, with a mean temperature of about
begun to recover. With the establishment of   0∞ Centigrade (32 degrees Fahrenheit) during a long
a currency board in April 1994, the national    heating season, lasting from mid October to mid April.
currency, the Litas, which was introduced in June/July 1993, has been fixed at an initially
undervalued exchange rate (1:4 to the US$). Inflation has slowed down over the past three years
(1 993: 410 %; 1994: 72 %; 1995: 39% 2) yet remains relatively high. Economic recovery continued
in 1995
1.2     Lithuania's economic reform program has been supported by two stand-by agreements
with the IMF (October 1992 and October 1993) and a US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan from the
Bank which became effective in October 1992. Bank projects amounting to US$ 160.5 million have
been approved for Lithuania, US$ 60.5 million of which have been disbursed.
B.     THE ENERGY AND HEAT1NG SECTOR IN LrTHUANIA
Energv Sector Background
1.3     Although poor in primary energy sources, Lithuania was chosen by Soviet planners as a
regional energy production center because of the country's high technical competence. The legacy
of this policy, in addition to a highly energy-intensive economy, is an energy industry with the
capacity to supply a region substantially larger than the country itself, yet with a nearly total
dependence on imported fuels and vulnerability to supply disruptions from the FSU. The sector is
further characterized by inefficient energy production and consumption, and high reliance on a
nuclear power generation plant. Import prices for gas and crude oil are negotiated between
suppliers and buyers, have been increasing dramatically, and are now close to world market levels.
I      The Lithuanian Government's published national accounts are recognized to underestimate GDP, as they do not
fully capture the rapidly growing private economy nor the parallel economy.
2      For 1993,1994 and 1995 (IMF). IMF projections are: 1996: 23%; 1997: 20%; 1998: 15%; 1999: 11%, 2000:
9%.



- 2 -
With the important exception of heating, energy prices in Lithuania generally reflect full cost
recovery. In the case of residential heating, it is estimated that about 60%-70% of the cost is
recovered from consumers.
1.4      Energy consumption in Lithuania includes a share of 20%  for space and domestic water
heating, which for urban households and commercial users is generated and delivered mostly by
district heating (DH) companies. The rather high share of energy consumption used for space
heating is attributable to inefficiencies on both the supply and demand sides of the system. Because
of overall district heating system inefficiencies, reductions in demand would theoretically permit
greatly reduced fuel consumption at central boilers. However, impediments in the supply system
must be overcome for this benefit to be fully realized. Inefficiencies on the supply side derive from
the organization of the energy sector in general as well as from technical problems with design,
installation, and operations and maintenance. While these are being addressed (see paras. 1.16 and
1.22) they are complemented by demand side activities such as this Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot
project.
Residential Heating
1.5      The supply side for residential heating is characterized by a general reliance on inefficient
DH systems that are overwhelmingly - about 70% - based on heat-only boilers. The Lithuanian
Power Corporation (LPC)3 estimates that 60% to 80% of urban households are connected to the DH
systems. Others are on "block" and individual heating systems. As in most other Soviet-designed
systems, consumers in buildings connected to the DH system cannot control temperature and flow
into their respective buildings' sub-stations and the DH and block systems' design limit the
feasibility of metering consumption individually (per dwelling unit).
1.6      On the demand side, the thermal efficiency of housing is very low by European standards.
The most recent Soviet norms (1984-1987) permitted heat transmission values more than twice
those of Germany and Great Britain, and about five times those of Sweden for the same period.
Pre-1979 Soviet norms were considerably less demanding. In addition, detailed design and
installation of building assemblies could not always in practice meet the established norms, and
performance has continued to deteriorate over time because of poor or absent maintenance. The
result is a high energy intensity for space heating in Lithuanian residential buildings (in 1990,
roughly 200 KJ/sqm/degree-day, compared to 130 in the USA and 80 in Sweden). Seriously under-
heated apartments and wide thermal imbalances between different parts of the same building
threaten occupant health. According to a survey conducted in spring 1995, 43% of households
considered their apartments cold during the winter of 1994/95. One out of four households used
supplementary heating equipment to compensate for low temperatures provided by the district
heating networks (normally maximum 18∞ Centigrade, or 64 degrees Fahrenheit); electrical space
heaters are most popular. Rising subsidies to the district heating sector (2.4% of the national
budget in 1995) are putting increasing pressure on Government resources.
3      Production and distribution of electricity and heat is the responsibility of LPC which has a monopoly in the
energy sector in Lithuania. Until November 1995, LPC operated under the name Lithuanian State Power System (LSPS).
In an attempt to break up the inherited LPC monopoly in the energy sector following independence, the Government
separated the distribution and district heating companies from LPC. However, true financial separation was never
complete!y implemented and these activities were re-consolidated under LPC in the third quarter of 1993. Although LPC
is now a separate legal entity, its managerial and financial independence is limited as the MOE has explicit powers over
its operations, such as fixing its annual income.



- 3 -
1.7      Consumer Prices. Heating and hot water tariffs are established by the Energy Pricing
Committee and are based on a progressive system involving the floor area per apartment and the
number of persons in the household respectively. Recovery of heating costs from households is
currently estimated to be about 60%-70% of total costs. Further tariff increases are planned, with
the aim of raising revenues up to full cost recovery by 1997. Prices increased by more than 40% in
real terms in autumn 1995 (from 1.15 LT/sqm to 2.40 LT/sqm). As heat prices rise to meet
economic levels, the thermal inefficiency of Lithuanian buildings is creating affordability problems
for consumers. In 1994, an estimated 35,000 Lithuanian households (approximately 3.7% of all
households) failed to pay their heating bills. However, it is estimated that only one quarter of those
households could not afford to pay their bills, while others deliberately withheld payment for
'tactical' reasons (for more details, see Annex 1). In general, however, the payment performance
of private households appears to be relatively good. Arrears are mainly associated with the heating
season, as households generally pay their outstanding bills during the summer months. According
to a survey conducted in spring 1995, households dedicate, over one year, a rather high portion, on
average 11 %, of their monthly income to energy expenditures; in the winter this figure increases to
15%. In 1996, this portion of the monthly income is estimated to be about 17% and 23%
respectively, and expected to increase to about 22% and 27% respectively as the DH companies
move to full cost recovery in the near future.
1 .8     Potential for and interest in housing energy efficiency initiatives is large in Lithuania and
favored by the Govermnent's progressively conservative energy pricing policy. According to a
household survey conducted in spring 1995, public attitudes towards energy savings activities are
positive among the majority of urban households, largely irrespective of income or socio-economic
grouping (see Annex 1). Most households already engage in some kind of energy saving behavior.
They turn off the lights in unoccupied rooms (about 90% of the households) and perceive that
insulating their homes will reduce their energy bills (about 60% of the respondents). People both
believe that insulation would reduce their heating bill and would like to insulate their homes (about
75 % of surveyed households agreed with both statements). Yet, more than half of the respondents
did not know how to save energy or where they could get advice on energy saving matters. In
general, richer households appear to be better informed about energy savings possibilities.
However, larger insulation or energy efficiency rehabilitation measures - e.g. the rehabilitation of
an apartment building's heating system - appear unthinkable to most (see also. para. 1.13 below).
1.9      Subsidies for residential heating. The Government has established an indirect subsidy
program to reduce the burden of heat and hot water costs for needy households, subject to certain
eligibility criteria. Heat billings that exceed 15% of household income (and, in addition, hot water
billings that exceed 5% of household income) can be deducted from the bill and not paid; district
heating companies may claim reimbursement for the difference from the respective municipality (see
Anniex 2 for details of design and operation of the subsidy). Approximately 30% of urban
households are estimated to be eligible for this subsidy.4 While the heating subsidy has certain
advantages - it ensures the use of the implicit income transfer for the purpose it has been assigned
and the transaction costs involved in its administration are minimal - there are several serious flaws
4      According to a representative household survey conducted during spring 1995 about 8% of urban households
benefited from this program during the heating season 1994/1995. Official data on the number of households eligible for
the program during the heating season 1995/1996, when higher tariffs came into effect, are not yet available. Information
collected from the Vilnius DH company and the Vilnius municipality suggests that during October through December,
1995, more than 1/3 of all households in Vilnius were eligible for the subsidy and received, effectively, an average of 23
LT/month.



- 4 -
in its design and operation: (a) it appears to benefit a population group much larger than that
comprising poor households, as municipalities have no means of verifying the correctness of income
statements on which eligibility depends; (b) it excludes most of the rural population - where poverty
indices are higher - as well as owners of single family homes since it only applies to dwellings
connected to the DH system or to local boilers that operate with metered natural gas; (c) it is
suspected that the district heating companies may in many cases not be able to claim reimbursement
from the municipalities and will have to absorb the cost of the subsidy themselves; and (d) as it
operates on a percentage basis it may remove, to some extent, the incentive for eligible households
to save energy. Irrespective of the subsidy, however, households are likely to be interested in
energy savings measures, given the unclear future of the heating subsidy itself and the use of
supplementary energy sources which are not eligible for the subsidy.
1.10     Technologies, materials and contracting for energy conservation. Practical farniliarity
with new energy conservation methods, materials and devices is embryonic in Lithuania but is
growing. Theoretical knowledge is substantial, however, and provides a good base for rapid
development of practical, marketable solutions. Engineering practice, developed under the Soviet
system where norms were prescriptive, needs some further development before it is comparable to
that of Western Europe, where architects and engineers are more used to meeting performance
specifications. Although new to the field, several local companies are eager to install energy-
related materials and devices. Foreign companies are beginning to be active and are seeking
partnerships with Lithuanian companies, and a large number of local agents for foreign building
materials are registered with Government. Local manufacturing of European and American
materials under license and assemblies is beginning, and some local enterprises are endeavoring to
compete by developing their own materials, at much lower prices. Several foreign suppliers are
training local companies in the selection and installation of their products. These private sector
activities are already beginning to change the approach to energy technology in Lithuania.
C.    THE HOUSING SECTOR IN LITHUANIA
1.11     Ownership and maintenance. Privatization of housing has been a very successful process
in Lithuania, but has created new responsibilities that homeowners have had difficulty meeting. By
1995, 87% of the total stock of dwellings had been transferred to private owners; in urban areas,
the share of private ownership exceeds 90%. Of these privatized dwellings, more than 80% are
apartments in multi-family buildings where the new ownership situation has created severe problems
for the organization of housing maintenance and improvements. Apartment owners now jointly
own and share responsibility for comnmon areas such as the basement, the central heating system,
the staircase, and the roof. Very little maintenance or improvement activities take place as neither
habit nor law obliges homeowners to take charge of their joint property. In the midst of low or
falling incomes, rising energy prices have directed the attention of many homeowners to residential
energy efficiency improvements in their apartments, such as simple window stripping or balcony
glazing.
1.12     Collective activities among homeowners (through building level homeowners'
associations) have become the only means for undertaking certain crucial improvements or larger
maintenance work in common areas of apartment buildings such as the renovation of the heating
system, or the repair of windows, staircases and roof. Indeed, homeowners' associations have,
since 1991, been formed in some buildings for the purpose of organizing small maintenance
activities (e.g. staircase cleaning) and repairs. While the general attitude towards homeowners'



- 5 -
associations appears very positive, at present only about 10% of all homeowners are actually
organized in such associations. The majority of homeowners still relies solely on municipal housing
maintenance companies which only perform very limited services, corresponding to a small monthly
fee.
1.13     Major repair or maintenance work in apartment buildings is hardly ever undertaken at
the moment, not even where homeowners' associations are established and have taken over the
organization of housing maintenance. The reasons for this have to do with the legal framework
within which the associations operate and which, until recently, did not encourage maintenance; to
change this the Law on Homeowners' Associations was passed by parliament only in spring 1995
(see para. 1. 19 below). Also, and equally important, collectively planned building improvements -
in contrast to simple maintenance - still appear unthinkable to most homeowners. Detailed
beneficiary studies (see Annex 1) have shown that the reluctance to undertake such activities stems
from the fact that: (a) homeowners would need to learn to plan and undertake improvements by
themselves rather than rely on the municipality or some state agency, as they did for many years;
(b) homeowners in apartment buildings would have to organize collective decision-making within
the building, through their associations; and (c) the lack of reliable information on all aspects of
housing maintenance and financing, and the misunderstanding or misinterpretation of existing
information, have made many households risk-averse and hinders cooperation among them. In
addition, homeowners lack financial means and access to long-term financing to make such
improvements affordable and attractive.
1.14     Adequacy of the housing stock. Creating an appropriate framework for housing
improvements and maintenance in order to achieve greater energy efficiency and to set the right
incentives is crucial in the Lithuanian context since the housing stock is badly maintained to begin with
and limited in relation to the overall demand. Owing to poor maintenance or inadequate repairs, each
year more of the housing stock becomes unusable. The remaining housing stock is hardly sufficient for
the existing population. The average urban apartment is 53.4 sqm in area and is inhabited by 2.9
individuals. Often, two or more households share the same flat (for details, see Annex 1). New
construction activity has fallen dramatically (see para. I in Section B of Annex 3): prior to
independence, the construction industry in Lithuania included nearly 300 construction and assembly
firms that employed up to 12 percent of the nation's labor force and generated about 20% of total
GNP. By 1993, however, employment in the sector had dropped to less than 5% of the labor force
and the contribution to GNP had fallen to 7.4 %. Meanwhile, private funds are scarce and long term
credits for construction are unavailable, apart from limited Government programs.
I.15     Distortions in the housing market. Transactions in the slowly emerging rental and housing
market are still rare, and homeowners appear to have little sense of the economic value of their property.
Income differentials between the households within any particular apartment building are unusually high
as the housing allocation system during Soviet times functioned according to queues or wait lists rather
than price-determined demand. To date, residential mobility has been too limited to have created an
economically efficient allocation of housing, i.e. such that the quality and the size of an apartment or a
house corresponds to the preference or the income of the owner. While Government initiatives, assisted
by donor support (see para. 1.21), are slowly emerging, so far, the absence of an effective urban
cadastre and mortgage system have impeded interactions otherwise typical of a housing market, such as
active involvement of the banking sector, and the availability of funds for construction and home buying
or renovation.



- 6 -
D.    GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
1.16     Strategy in the energy sector. The Ministry of Energy (MOE) is currently the primary
policy-making and regulatory body for the energy sector. Based on the National Energy Strategy
(July, 1993, by Government with EU Phare assistance), the Conference Communique on the
Restructuring of the Lithuania Energy Sector (November, 1993), the Bank's Energy Sector Review
(May, 1994), and the Public Investment Conference (May, 1995), the objectives agreed upon with
the Lithuanian authorites encompass: (a) security of energy supply through regional cooperation
and development of alternative indigenous sources; (b) economic sustainability of sector reform,
through private sector development and market discipline, cost recovery, and incentives for
conservation; and (c) energy efficiency and environmental protection, through improvement of
thermal energy efficiency and other measures.
1.17     Initiatives in residential heating. Complementing its supply side efforts, the
Government, through the Ministry of Energy, has recently begun to formulate a strategy for
improving energy efficiency on the demand side, and to draft policies directed specifically at
improving heating efficiency in housing. Initiatives include promotion of building-level heat meter
installations - with 80% of the equipment cost being subsidized by the Government - and
corresponding billing for heat according to actual consumption. Other incentives include discounts
on heating bills for upgrades of building-level heating equipment. It is estimated that about 50% of
Lithuania's urban households have installed building heat meters to date; anecdotal evidence
suggests that this has led to increased consumer awareness, and in some cases direct intervention by
building owners to reduce the flow from the DH system by controlling substation valves manually.
1I.18    Policies fostering private initiative in the housing sector. Following the early and extensive
privatization, the Government has taken a number of measures to foster private initiative in the sector.
The Homeowners' Association Law (see para 1. 19 below) is an important first step in this direction, as
was the establishment, in 1994, of the Credit Fund for Renovation and Insulation of Houses and
Apartments (CFRI) that was managed through an interministerial conimittee to allocate funds for the
support of energy efficiency and housing maintenance. The CFRI was recently reorganized as the
'Housing Credit Foundation' (HCF) and is currently the only source of long-term lending for such
activities in Lithuania. However, until July 1995, the Fund Decree required households to mortgage
their apartments when borrowing for residential rehabilitation. As a consequence, homeowners'
associations were not able to get access to these funds as it proved impossible for an association to
convince each and every homeowner in a building to mortgage his/her apartment. In order to make
lending for energy efficiency improvements feasible for homeowners' associations, the Fund Decree
was modified in August 1995 with respect to the requirement that borrowers mortgage their
property when taking a loan. Now, borrowing is possible without mortgaging, however at a higher
interest rate. For FY 1996, LT 16 million (representing 0.26% of the central Government budget) was
assigned to CFRI (now: HCF) in the national budget of which LT 6 million has been allocated to
support the construction and insulation industry. As part of this effort, the Ministry of Construction
and Urban Development (MCUD) is engaged in distributing information to private households
concerning the opportunities for residential energy efficiency improvements, including newspaper
articles, te;,vision programs, other publications, and seminars by foreign consultants in energy
efficiency technology, funded by bilateral donors.
I.19     The frameworkfor collective action in multi-family buildings. To correct the perceived
deficiencies of the privatization law with respect to building maintenance, the Parliament, in February
1995, adopted the Homeowners' Association Law (Bendrija Law). In May 1995 corresponding



- 7 -
implementation regulations were passed. The law enshrines the homeowners' association (HOA) as the
single future institution to take care of housing maintenance and all management issues related to
common areas within multi-family buildings. The association is given the right to levy charges on all
homeowners in the building, be they members of the association or not, for the purpose of financing
maintenance and repair work agreed to by a majority of association members. In order to establish an
association, only 50% of the apartment owners in a building have to be present and come to a
majority decision (if the quorum is not obtained, only 25% have to be present at a meeting two
weeks later). Thereafter, decisions on building maintenance are taken at association meetings,
requiring a quorum of 50% of members (or 25% two weeks later) and a simple majority of those
present. Homeowners, whether or not they are members, have to settle all accounts with the
association before selling their apartmnent unless they are insolvent in wvhich case wvhen selling his/her
apartment, the accounts must be settled by the new owner. Whether or not membership in the
association is compulsory or automatic appears unclear in the law. However, according to the
Lithuanian Constitution, forced membership in an association is not permitted in Lithuania. MCUD
and MOF are investigating the relationship between the Bendrija Law and the Constitution in this
respect. At negotiations, it was agreed that a legal opinion would be provided to the Bank from a
lawyer in MOF or MCUD stating that, in their opinion, the HOA Law does not conflict with
Article 35 of the Constitution so as to adversely affect project implementation, and setting out the
legal arguments upon which this opinion is based. It was also agreed that, if necessary, the
eligibility criteria for participating HOAs could be amended, as required, or the Governrment could
raise the question before the Constitutional Court.
1.20     Policies fostering new construction. Since 1992, Lithuania has had a Government programn
of subsidized construction financing called "Bustas" (Housing) program which is a replacement of a
program that during FSU times provided long term loans for the establishment of housing cooperatives.
Loans are currently given at 8% interest rate (5% up to 1995), for 25 years, with 3 years of grace, to
cover 80%-90% of the investments. The program is expensive to society as it is covering the gap
between 8% (or lower) and the market interest rate which, for short-term loans, currently varies between
20% and 30%. In 1994, the total housing production in Lithuania was 8,000 dwellings, including 1,700
single family homes, of which 60% were financed through the "Bustas" program. The subsidies are
paid from the General Support Fund (Resolution 272 of April 19, 1993) formed from revenues from
privatization of housing, sale of land, sale of municipal dwelling premises, and sale of dwellings
belonging to enterprises and state funds. The budget impact of the "Bustas" program amounts to
approximately 3.4% of the state (central Government) budget. However, the Government intends to
reorient the scope and targeting of "Bustas". As of 1995, loans are only provided for the completion of
unfinished apartment buildings. In the future, the program may be re-oriented towards social housing.
The Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project will address these issues through its Institutional
Strengthening component (see paras. 2.9 and 2.11).
1.21     Donor activities. EU Phare and several bilateral donors are actively encouraging energy
efficiency policies and programs in the housing sector. The Energy Agency in the Ministry of
Energy has opened an Energy Information Center in Vilnius, partly funded by EU Phare, to
disseminate information and provide advice on energy efficiency, and there are plans to establish an
energy fund for lending to industry for energy efficiency improvements at the end of 1996. The
German and Nordic Governments have financed renovation and insulation of a few apartment
buildings for demonstration purposes, and Denmark is considering support for residential energy
efficiency through export credits. MOE also works with EU Thermie in a program of information
dissemination. However, resources devoted to this program are limited. On the energy supply
side, local boilers have been upgraded in various municipalities with bilateral funding from



- 8 -
Denmark and Sweden. A land registration system is being developed with bilateral assistance from
Sweden. Surveying of the whole country is expected to be completed in five years. EU Phare and
USAID support Government efforts to improve the mortgage system.
E.    BANK STRATEGY AND EXPERIENCE
1.22     Bank strategy and projects. Restoring the immediate financial viability of the energy
sector, and achieving major efficiency gains through commercialization, institutional reform and,
where feasible, privatization, are the two principal objectives of Bank strategy in the energy sector,
as recommended in the Bank's Energy Sector Review (May, 1994), informally updated in May
1995. Up to now, Bank energy-related projects in preparation or underway have concentrated on
the supply side: the Power Rehabilitation Project (US$26.4 million, effective since November 1995,
for rehabilitation of the electricity system), the Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project
(US$5.9 million Bank loan and US$6.9 GEF Grant, not yet effective, for demonstrating the
feasibility of developing Lithuanian geothermal resources in supplying heat to DH systems), and a
Heating Efficiency Project (scheduled for FY 1999, for rehabilitation of DH distribution systems in
selected cities, pending decentralization of DH companies). These supply-side projects focus on
rehabilitating parts of the existing thermal generation, electricity transmission and district heating
systems in order to increase the efficiency of energy use, among other objectives. Other Bank
projects in Lithuania include a recently completed US$60 million Rehabilitation Loan, a US$7
million Klaipeda Environment Loan, a US$25 million Enterprise & Financial Sector Loan, a
US$6.2 Siauliai Environment Loan (not yet effective), and a US$30 Private Agriculture
Development Loan (not yet effective). Implementation experience to date is limited largely to the
Rehabilitation Loan.
1.23     Bank experience in the housing sector is limited in FSU countries. No Bank-financed
project focusing on affordable energy efficiency rehabilitation by homeowners has been implemented to
date in the sector. A proposed Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project (Loan No. 4012) will
address energy efficiency in residential buildings divested from formerly public enterprises that have
been privatized or corporatized, but the apartments and houses are not owned by private households
in this case. Work on residential energy efficiency improvement has also been undertaken in the
preparation phase of a proposed Estonia Housing Finance Development Project. A Slovenia
Environment Project (Loan No. 8853) promotes lending to individual households to replace old
heating systems with more enviromnentally-friendly equipment. Here, environmental concerns were the
overriding reason for designing terms and conditions for final beneficiaries adequate to stimulate
demand. A significant number of bilaterally-financed pilot projects have been carried out in the Baltics
during the last few years, demonstrating energy efficiency measures that have payback periods of less
than 5 years and achieve energy savings in apartment buildings of more than 30%.
1.24    Generally, the Bank's experience shows that performance in the housing sector depends on
appropriate pricing, an enabling regulatory structure, and the early involvement of various stakeholders.
The Poland Housing Project (Loan No. 3499) highlighted the importance of appropriate
institutional, legal and banking arrangements. Bank studies in Russia and Hungary noted that, in
countries that have achieved reasonable economic stabilization (e.g. Lithuania), developing housing
markets provides significant benefits for the entire economy and helps to revive economic activity in a
decentralized fashion.



- 9 -
F.     RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.25      A kev to addressing the most pressing problems in the housing sector in Lithuania in
general. and in residential energy consumption in particular, will be to encourage households to
actively assume greater responsibility for their dwellings. Offering homeowners access to credit.
adequate technical assistance and appropriate incentives can provide the initial learning experience
that is needed in order to encourage private initiative to assume responsibility for residential energy
efficiencv improvements and housing maintenance. It would complement the Bank's efforts to
sustain supply side policies as demand side energy efficiency improvements would ease the
implementation of supply side price adjustments. Fostering private initiative in order to improve
residential energy efficiency and, through this, housing maintenance and improvements, is an area
that has been neglected by other donors and investors due to the social issues mentioned above and
the conmplexitv of the necessary institutional reform. It appears therefore an appropriate niche for a
first Bank-financed pilot project in the housing sector.
1.26      Directly  or indirectly, this project addresses all four development priorities formulated in
the Country Assistance Strategy for Lithuania, as discussed by the Executive Directors during the
presentation of the Klaipeda Environment Project on December 8, 1994 (Bank Report No. 13677-
LT):
(a) Maintenance and development of physical infrastructure: Although housing represents only a
limitcd part of Lithuania's physical infrastructure, it has a very important social dimension that is
critical In transition economies Despite the sector's need for maintenance and development.
Governmcnt resources are hardly available. Thus, stimulating private initiative in housing will be
thc k-ey for improving it. While homeowners have no experience in assuming responsibility for
their d\eclhngs. thc opportunity to improve residential energy efficiency, and to save on their
cncrgn bill, w ll allow them to learn about, and change their attitudes towards, private initiative in
housing in genieral and the efficient use of energy in particular. Without intervention, this process
is likcl\ to be delayed and buildings will further deteriorate, making future investments in
maintenance and rchabilitation more costlv. Through public information activities that are part
of this projcct, the opportunity to learn about the tangible pay-off of private initiative in housing
w.-ill be given to an audience much larger than the direct beneficiaries and a critical demonstration
cffect \%ill havc been created.
(b) IReorientation ol/the energy sector to achieve greater energy efficiency: The project's demand
side orentation will complement the Bank's efforts to assist the GOL in reforming the supply
side (see para 1 22). Using a grass-roots approach, the project will raise awareness of the scope
for energy efficiency improvements, thereby increasing public support for improving efficiency in
the production units as well as in the distribution networks. Furthermore, stimulating demand
side energy efficiency improvements will facilitate the introduction of full cost-recovery, for
heating, which is an essential part of the policy reform needed in the energy sector.
(c) Incentives tbr private sector development. The proposed project will foster energy efficiency
activities on a small scale, the size of each credit being limited by a building's inhabitants' ability
to pay back a loan. As associations are expected to undertake investments suited to their
members' incomes, most rehabilitation measures will be relatively small. Small and medium
sized enterprises will gain access to a new set of customers as homeowners' associations get
access to funds for financing engineering and construction products and services. At the same
time, training activities undertaken and supported by the proposed project will reduce information



- 10-
asymmetry and perceived risks of contracting in the markets for housing rehabilitation and
maintenance, as well as energy efficiency engineering.
(d! Reform of the financial sector. Lending for residential energy efficiency improvements under the
proposed project will make use of qualified commercial banks. Banks interested in participating
in the project view their participation as an introduction to the concept of, and the practical issues
involved in, long-tern lending for housing in general, and in lending to homeowners' associations
in particular. As homeowners' associations are expected to become one of the major clients for
borrowing for housing rehabilitation, and given the degree of privatization in the housing sector,
the proposed project will support and speed up the financial sector's involvement in this sector.



- 11 -
II.  THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT GENESIS
2. 1    The Government of Lithuania requested, in autumn of 1994, Bank assistance in the
preparation of a project addressing demand side energy efficiency issues and regards this project as a
priority. Project preparation was carried out jointly with the Ministry of Construction and Urban
Development (MCUD) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Other Government agencies, such as the
Ministry of Energy, District Heating companies and various municipalities were consulted. A social
assessment was undertaken, based on a survey of 2,000 households in spring 1995, also, a test activity
with four homeowners' associations was undertaken during summer and fall of 1995. Hearings and
meetings were held with homeowners and municipal officials in various cities. Discussions were held
with a number of institutions in the commercial banking sector. For demonstration purposes, energy
efficiency rehabilitations of schools were included in the project, and the municipalities of Vilnius and
Kaunas were selected due to their size, commitment to the objectives, and financial capacity.
B.    OBJECTIVES
2.2     This project is a pilot and demonstration effort that aims to: (i) support and enable private
initiative to improve residential energy efficiency; (ii) support public initiative in improving energy
efficiency in schools; and (iii) support the implementation of Government policies to sustain the
privatization of housing, enabling increased private initiative in housing maintenance in general. These
objectives will be achieved through:
(a) promoting and facilitating energy efficiency rehabilitation of residential buildings, by providing
loans for technically and economically attractive packages of measures which are affordable to a
broad range of citizens;
(b) promoting private initiative in housing and energy efficiency, by supporting the organization of
homeowners into functioning associations able to take charge of their buildings and housing
maintenance functions;
(c) supporting municipalities in the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools for demonstration
purposes;
(d) developing the use of private energy consultants for housing retrofits; and
(e) introducing the commercial banking sector to the concept of long-term lending for housing and
housing improvements.
2.3     The project is a pilot effort since it is still unclear which institutional and financial
mechanisms and energy investments will prove to be most successful in achieving the aforementioned
objectives. Foremost, the willingness and ability of homeowners to take charge of their property needs
to be explored, including the specific needs for assistance, training, and public information. Secondly,
the functioning of homeowners' associations as viable partners in the housing market is as of yet
unknown. In particular, collateral and enforcement mechanisms that are involved in lending to
homeowners' associations need to be tested. Thirdly, and from a more technical point of view, the pilot
project is expected to demonstrate which energy efficiency improvements will generate the highest
savings under the specific Lithuanian conditions. Also, arrangements necessary for a credit facility for
long term lending to homeowners and their associations, administered through the commercial



- 12 -
banking sector, will be tested. Testing the instruments and arrangements in these four areas, the pilot
would lay the foundation for potential future operations which would involve strengthening of., among
others, a housing finance system, property rights and land registration systems, housing
maintenance services, building codes, and the construction and building materials industries.
2.4     The project also is a demonstration effort since the changes in the behavior of homeowners
that will be required for successfully reforming the housing sector in Lithuania will have to involve an
extensive leaming process. Given the widespread mistrust towards available information, learning from
examples wvill be most effective. The project will generate such examples and thereby reliable
information about the experiences of those who have - on a trial basis - taken charge of their buildings
and implemented energy efficiency measures. Additional information on the amount of energy that can
be saved through rehabilitation measures will be generated through upgrading selected school buildings
and carefully monitoring energy consumption. The extent of the unclarities in the housing market, the
lack of reliable information on energy savings, and the significance of both for the behavior of
homeowners, were confirmed by a test activity that was undertaken during project preparation (see for
more details on the test activity, and the lessons learned, Annex I -B) .
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.5     The proposed project would consist of the following three components:
(a) credit for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation, with incentives for homeowners to
encourage participation;
(b) energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools in selected municipalities;
(c) institutional development and strengthening, to be achieved through technical assistance that will
(i) facilitate project implementation, including setting up advisory centers for homeowners and
homeowners' associations, and (ii) support further policy reform in demand side energy use and
the energy and housing sectors in general.
Component I: Residential Energry Efficiency Rehabilitation (US$ 15.4 million of which Bank loan
US$ 8.2 million)
2.6     The project will channel US$13.8 million (excluding borrower downpayments) through
commercial banks to approximately 200 - 300 homeowners' associations in multi-family dwellings,
corresponding to an estimated 14,000 homeowners, for residential energy efficiency improvements (e.g.
installation of new heating devices, rehabilitation of roofs and windows, and installation of additional
insulation). For demonstration purposes, single family homeowners will also be eligible as borrowers.
The share of investments in single family homes would, however, initially be limited to 10% of the
amount directed towards residential energy efficiency improvements. Individual apartment owners will
be eligible as borrowers only if the association in their building has taken a loan for rehabilitation of
common areas. Investments for which a loan can be taken will have to be directly related to energy
conservation. Repairs associated with the correction of urgent structural defects, such as deteriorating
roofs, will also be supported when related to energy savings measures. Investments are expected to be
of three types: (a) mechanical infrastructure (e.g. heating equipment, pipes); (b) minor
repair/refurbishing work such as window and door repair and tightening; and (c) major construction
works such as roof, external insulation and new windows. Investments per apartment building are
expected to range from US$20,000 to US$ 150,000. The range of expected cost per dwelling unit is
from US$ 100 to $3,000. Packages of eligible measures are expected to result in a reduction of energy



- 13 -
consumption by up to 50%. (See Annex 3 for technical details, estimated savings and payback times).
They are of the type already undertaken in Lithuania and tested in Lithuania and elsewhere. Local
consultants and contractors will carry out most of the design and construction work with technical
assistance targeted at strengthening areas relating to energy efficiency analysis and design, as well as
competitive procurement and management of civil works. The allocation of project funds between the
three project components, as well as the portion allocated for single family homes, would be adjusted
during project implementation subject to agreement between the Government and the Bank. Eligibility
criteria for borrowers and investments (sub-projects) eligible for financing under the project were
discussed during negotiations and are included in Annex 7; they will also be referred to in the Operating
Procedures (OP). A condition for loan effectiveness is that final Operating Procedures acceptable to the
Bank have been adopted by the Government (see in para. 6.2(d)).
2.7     Incentivesfor homeowners to participate. Rising energy bills and the continuing decay of
residential buildings constitute an important incentive for homeowners to undertake rehabilitation of
their buildings, Yet, detailed beneficiary studies conclude that an incentive in the form of a transitional
Government contribution to the repayments of the loans will be required during the beginning of project
implementation. The surveys suggest that even though homeowners are very interested in energy
savings measures they have not yet engaged in such activities due to the substantial transaction costs
involved in organizing such collective actions, and the social learning cost of moving from a 50-year
tradition of relying on the Government to take care of housing. Mistrust and apprehension among
households concerning the reliability of available information, including information about the technical
and financial feasibility of solutions (i.e., energy savings to be expected from specific rehabilitation
measures), future energy costs, banking institutions, and borrower interest rates, increase their perceived
risk of such activities. While setting transparent financial incentives for homeowners and their
associations to engage in energy efficiency rehabilitation, these activities will have to be accompanied
bv a significant public information program (see para. 2.10(c)). Justification of the Government
contribution itself (described in para. 3.14; also see Annex 4), and its size, will be reconsidered semi-
annually during project implementation.
Component If: Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation of Schoolss (US$ 2.3 million of which Bank loan
US$ 1.8 million)
2 8     The project will channel US$2.3 million to selected municipalities (including contributions of
municipalities) for energy efficiency rehabilitation in 10-15 school buildings in those municipalities,
through onlending by the Ministry of Finance to the respective local governments. These investments
will be directly related to energy conservation, and may include related repairs to correct urgent
structural defects in the buildings, such as deteriorating roofs. Eligible measures are of the type already
tested in Lithuania and elsewhere. Local consultants and contractors will carry out most of the design
and construction work, with technical assistance targeted at strengthening areas relating to energy
efficiency analysis and design, as well as competitive procurement and management of civil works. The
average expected cost per building is $200,000 (see Annex 3 for technical details). The Municipalities
of Vilnius and Kaunas have been selected by the Government for this demonstration component because
of their size, willingness to support the project objectives, and their financial capacity.
5      Hospitals were also considered but were not included since this would have added implementation complexity to
the project (under central or district government jurisdiction).



- 14 -
Component III: Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (US$ 2.9 million)
2.9     The project will provide an investment of US$2.9 million to support institutional development
in two areas and institutional strengthening in several others through specifically designed technical
assistance components (see Annex 5 for more details)'
(a) Organizational supportfor homeowners and homeowners 'associations may be provided
through advisory centers that will be established initially in two major cities (Vilnius, Kaunas).
Through these centers, homeowners and their associations will have access to organizational,
legal, financial and informational advice needed to form and operate functioning associations.
The centers will bc run and organized through local Associations of Homeowners 'Associations
(AHA) which are already in the process of being established, and which will be supported to
continue to do so through the provision of Technical Assistance. These centers will initially be
project-financed but will be set up so that they can evolve into self-supporting non-profit
organizations, based on membership contributions and fee-for-service arrangements.
(b) Technical and engineering advice will be provided to homeowners and their associations who
considler energy efficiency rehabilitation of their homes. Such advice will initially be available on
an ad-hoc basis and should later be arranged through advisory centers as described under (a).
The provision of adequate advice to homeowners and homeowners' associations, in
organizational and financial matters as well as concerning technical and engineering issues, will
be a dated covenant in the loan agreement, specifying that the Government will have to provide
evidence for the provision of such support by May 1, 1997 (see para. 6. I(e)).
2.10      Further institutional strengthening will be needed in order to: (a) support project
implementation, and (b) facilitate policy reform in key areas such as housing policy and the redirection
of housing subsidies to the needy (see para. 2.12). Activities to be financed for project implementation
include:
(a) technical monitoring of energy savings;
(b) before and after beneficiary assessment;
(c) public information programs regarding housing management and the merits of energy
efficiency/conservation, incorporating results and insights from (a) and (b);
(d) assistance to participating commercial banks regarding their evaluation of energy efficiency
rehabilitation proposals, and training in long-term lending for these and other interested banks;
(e) support of the local consulting, construction and building materials industries through training for
Lithuanian energy consultants (new technologies, new methodologies, relationships with
manufacturers, contractors, clients),
(f)  operational costs of the project implementation unit.
2.11     Policy studies. Recommendations for future Government assistance to the housing sector,
and an action plan to refocus and target the existing assistance to the neediest in society, will be
provided through detailed policy studies as part of technical assistance. These studies will address three
related policy areas: (a) Government assistance to the housing sector in general; (b) the existing
residential heating subsidy program; and (c) promotion of energy efficiency rehabilitation of residential
buildings. The three components may be undertaken as separate but coordinated studies. Finalizing
these studies is a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement, specifying October 1, 1997 as the completion



- 15 -
date for components (a) and (b)(see para. 6.1(g)) and October 1, 1998 as completion date for
component (c) (see para. 6. 1(h)).
2.12      Study component (a) is expected to: (i) define the needs of different groups in the society in
terms of housing support and housing finance instruments, with particular emphasis on low income
households; (ii) assess the strengths and weaknesses of housing finance mechanisms in the private sector
and the corresponding prospects in the medium term; (iii) evaluate the existing Government subsidy and
assistance programs to the housing sector, in particular the "Bustas" program, in terms of impact on
beneficiaries and budgetary implications; (iv) define and evaluate different possible approaches for
Government to meet the needs of the poorest groups in the society regarding housing, taking into
consideration general social security policy and budgetary implications; (v) recommend appropriate
policies and strategies for Government assistance program(s) in the housing sector, with particular
emphasis on financial assistance programs and social housing; and (vi) define a detailed action plan for
the implementation of the recommended policy and strategies, including organizational, financial and
legal requirements, in particular a long-term action plan to redirect Government assistance in the
housing sector to the neediest in the society.
2.13      Study component (b) will include: (i) a review of the existing residential heating subsidy
program as heating tariffs increase, in particular its targeting, budgetary implications, and impact on
incentives for energy conservation; and (ii) formulation of recommendations for change. Through study
component (c) regarding residential energy efficiency, the consultant is expected to: (i) formulate
possible policies for a larger program for the promotion of energy efficiency rehabilitation, including
policies for institutional mechanisms; (ii) prepare a strategy for future Government assistance, if any,
for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation, and a strategy for the eventual phase out of the revolving
fund (RF) established under this project (see para. 3.16) and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
2.14      In addition, the participating municipalities will, with consulting assistance, each undertake a
study of their housing maintenance organizations with recommendations to be discussed and agreed with
the Bank, including options to reorient, reorganize, and/or privatize these maintenance operations.
Finalizing these studies will be a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement, specifying October 1, 1997 as
the completion date for the studies (see para. 6.1 (i)).



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.    PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
3.1     Total project cost is estimated to be US$ 20.6 million equivalent, including applicable local
taxes and duties. The project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 (all estimates are in US dollar million
equivalcnts). Base costs are shown in September 1995 prices. As the loan would be considered a sector
or subsector loan, physical contingencies are not calculated. Price contingencies have been estimated
using Bank international inflation estimates which are as follows: 1996: 3.3%; 1997: 2.3%; 1998:
2.5%. 1998 -2001: 2.5% p.a..
Table 3. 1: Project Costs
(Millions of US$)
a!/                        %       %Base
Foreign    Cost
Local    Foreign     Total
b /_
1. Residential Rehabilitation            9.0        6.1       15.1       40         75
11. Rehabilitation of Schools            1.2        1.0        2.2       45         11
Ill. Institutional Development and
Technical Assistance
- Technical Assistance                0.9        1.7        2.6       65         13
- Recurrent Costs (PCU)               0.2         -         0.2        -           I
Base Costs (in September 1995 prices)    11.3       8.8       20.1       44         100
Price Contingencies                   0.3        0.2        0.5       40           3
Total Project Costs                      11.6       9.0       20.6       44         103
a_/    The relation between local and foreign costs may change depending on the local inflation and exchange rate
movements.
b_I    Primarily imported heating equipment and roof material.
B.    FINANCING PLAN
3.2     A Bank loan of US$10.0 million will finance 49% of total project cost, or 81% of the foreign
costs and 23% of local costs. The loan will be repayable in 20 years including a 5 years grace period,
at standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans in annuity method.
The loan. US$ 10 million, will be onlent for the residential and school rehabilitation components of the
project. The loan will finance: (a) 53% of the residential rehabilitation component; and (b) 78% of the
school rehabilitation component. The loan is not expected to finance any institutional development and
technical assistance. Should grant financing from bilateral or other multilateral sources not be sufficient
for financing of the foreign costs of this component, Bank funds may be reallocated to the component,
as required. Government has been seeking grant financing for institutional development and technical
assistance but the specific sources of financing have yet to be confirmed (see Annex 5). Grant financing
of US$2.0 million has already been informally committed by the Governments of Denmark, Sweden and
the Netherlands (see Annex 5), and is therefore included as donor contribution. If and when additional
grant financing is forthcoming, the corresponding amount of Government financing will be reallocated
to the housing rehabilitation component. The financing plan is presented in Table 3.2.



- 17 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Millions of US$
Local   Foreign    Total       % of Total
GovernmentofLithuania                         6.5        -        6.5          31%
Municipal Governments                         0.5        -        0 5          2%
Private beneficiaries                         1.6        -        1.6          8%
Donors                                        0.3       1.7       2.0          10%
World Bank                                    2.7       7.3      10.0          49%
Total Project Costs                           11.6      9.0      20.6         100%
3.3     Counterpart funds will be provided by the Government of Lithuania, participating
muricipalities, and private households. Private households will finance a minimum of 10% of the costs
of the housing rehabilitation component (US$ 1.6 million) in the form of downpayments for
rehabilitation work. In-kind contributions would be accepted as downpayment if they consist of goods
or works directly related to an investment proposal, e.g., drawings for building rehabilitation measures
paid for by the borrower not earlier than six months prior to presenting the proposal to a participating
bank. Municipalities will finance 20% of the costs of the school rehabilitation component (US$0 5
million). Government counterpart funds (US$6.5 million) represent an average of about US$1.6 million
per year over the project life of four years. All applicable taxes and duties related to the project Xwill bc
financed by counterpart funds. Total taxes are estimated to be US$3.5 million (18% VAT and 1 0%
customs duty on imported heating equipment and insulation material).
C.    ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
3.4     The Republic of Lithuania will be the Borrower. For onlending for the Residential
Rehabilitation Component, the Government will, with each commercial bank that will be a participating
financial institution (PFI), enter into an umbrella subsidiary loan agreement. This agreement wvill be
applicable to each individual sub-loan the banks then make under the credit line. The credit risk on sub-
loans to homeowners' associations would be borne by the Government, while the credit risk on sub-
loans to owners of single family homes and individual apartments, for which regular mortgage security
can be provided, would be borne by the onlending bank.
Onlending to Commercial Banks
3.5     The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will onlend Bank funds, together with the Government
counterpart contribution, to participating commercial banks in local currency, bearing the foreign
exchange risk, for three to ten years maturity at fixed rates (corresponding to approved sub-loans). As
an incentive for homeowners to participate, funds will be onlent, for the first six months of project
implementation, to commercial banks so as to keep the cost of borrowing for homeowners at a level
equivalent to an interest rate of 15% (consumer rate) (see paras. 3.14 and 3.15). The size of the
Government contribution to the program will depend on the difference between market interest rates and
the lower pilot consumer rate. While currently no reference market rates for long-term lending are
available, an approximation of market interest rates will be determined, in order to monitor the
Government contribution, every six months, and be defined as the average of the rates of Government
Treasury Bills, with the longest maturity available issued over the previous six months6, plus five
6      Mid-January 1996, the rate for one month T-bills was 26.7% while three month T-bills were sold at 28.5'.
Mid-May 1996, the average three month T-bill rate was 18.8%.



- 18-
percent (market reference rate). Due to the differences in risk-bearing (see para. 3.4) funds will be
onlent to qualified commercial banks at the following rates: (a) for onlending to homeowners'
associations, the consumer rate (initially 15%); and (b) for onlending to owners of single family homes
and individual apartments, the consumer rate less a maximum spread to be agreed between the
Government and the banks, and approved by the Bank (initially the spread is expected to be 4%).
3.6     Ministry of Finance will make a provision out of counterpart funds for the amount of the
Government contribution, i.e. for the difference between the market reference rate and the consumer
rate. The difference between the market reference rate and the Government's cost of funds is expected
to cover administrative costs, Government contribution, credit risk, and a premium for foreign currency
risk. In order to ensure that final borrowers are aware of the level of Government contribution received
throughout the loan term, they will regularly be notified by the banks about: (a) the market reference
rate which would be applicable to the loan if no Government contribution was provided (the market
reference rate at the time of loan approval); and (b) the current market reference rate, i.e. the reference
rate applicable to new loans as of the date of notification. The Loan Agreement will contain a dated
covenant specifying that, based on market rates and borrower acceptance, Government will review, and
agree with the Bank on, the appropriateness of the formula for determining the onlending rate on or
before March 3 1, 1997, and semi-annually thereafter (see para. 6.1(d)).
Onlending to Homeowners and Homeowners' Associations
3.7     The banks will onlend funds in local currency to all final beneficiaries at the consumer rate.
For lending to homeowners' associations, banks would initially bear no credit risk and be paid a fee of
1% of disbursed funds, and 3% on collections of principal and interest, at the time funds are received.
This fee structure would correspond to a spread of about 0. 8% and is considered, based on discussions
with potential participating commercial banks, adequate incentive by these banks to participate in the
program. As securitv for lending to homeowners' associations, the banks (as collection agents) would
rely on provisions in the Homeowners' Association Law. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements will require
the banks, in cases of non-repayment, to pursue the available legal remedies so that the enforcement
procedures under the existing legal framework can be tested. They will, however, be reimbursed for
enforcement costs up to a predefined level. The banks would bear full credit risk for lending to owners
of single family homes and individual apartments, with the property as security, and charge a spread up
to an agreed level (see para. 3.5). The reflows from loan repayments may be used for additional
onlending by the Government to the banks as a revolving fund, after provisions for foreign currency risk
with respect to repayments to the Bank (see Annex 6). At annual reviews, participating commercial
banks will be given the option to switch to full or partial credit-risk bearing for lending to homeowners'
associations. Holding a mid-term review will be a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement (see para.
6.1(j)).
3.8     The onlending to homeowners' associations would rely on the existing provisions of the
Homeowners' Association Law. Under this law, an association has the right to levy charges on all its
members based on majority decisions taken by the association. In the case of default by a homeowner,
the association may avail itself of the remedies available under the Civil Code and the Civil Code
Procedures, i.e. the association can take a homeowner to court for foreclosure and eviction, if required.
Upon the bankruptcy of the owner of an apartment, the amounts owed to a homeowners' association are
by law transferred to a new owner upon the sale of an apartment, i.e. the unpaid debt obligation passes
with the property. The banks and the Government will be given, through the sub-loan agreements, a
contractual right of subrogation, i.e. in case of payment default the bank and the Government shall have
the right to assume the association's right to collect from its members and enforce its rights through the



- 19 -
courts. Lending to owners of single family homes and individual apartments for energy efficiency
rehabilitation will be undertaken with the borrowers mortgaging their interest in their property.
3.9     Homeowners' associations would be offered two optional loan instruments, a straight annuity
loan and an instrument designed with graduated payments. The latter would be more affordable for low
income households in apartment buildings as it would result in slight negative amortizations during the
first few years of loan repayment, i.e., slightly lower payments than the interest charged during these
years. The amortizations would be positive in real terms, however. The loans would be at fixed rate,
with a maturity of 3 to 10 years, paid monthly, and with no grace period. Borrowers would be required
to pay a minimum of 10% downpayment. For lending to owners of single family homes and individual
apartments, a straight annuity loan instrument would be applied. Signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance and at least one commercial bank, will be a
condition for effectiveness (see para. 6.2(a)).
Onlending to Municipalities
3.10     For the School Rehabilitation Component, the Republic of Lithuania will, through the
Ministry of Finance, onlend funds to selected municipalities at the same terms as the Bank loan to the
Republic of Lithuania, i.e. twenty years maturity with five years of grace at standard LIBOR-based
variable interest rate in US dollars. The foreign exchange risk and the commitment fee on the loan from
the Bank will be borne by the municipalities. The reflows of loan repayments from the municipalities
will be used by the Republic of Lithuania to repay the loan to the Bank.
D.    COST RECOVERY, AFFORDABILITY, AND PRICING
3.11     Cost and cost recovery. The cost of the particular investments in an apartment building will
vary depending on the decision taken by each homeowners' association, based on its members' interest
in energy efficiency rehabilitation, on their household incomes, and on the rehabilitation needs in each
individual building. Costs and expected energy savings will vary significantly depending on size,
design, and condition of the particular building. Based on studies of a range of typical buildings and
test activities (see para. 2 in Annex 12), preliminary cost estimates for expected renovation packages
range from about LT 400 (US$ 100) per apartment for basic measures in large buildings, to about LT
12,000 (US$3,000) per apartment for comprehensive packages in smaller buildings. However, it is not
expected that more than LT 2,000 - 6,000 (US$500 - US$1,500) per apartment will be borrowed as the
homeowners' financial resources are limited and larger investment packages tend to result in
comparatively lower energy savings (see also Annex 12).7 For the school rehabilitation component,
projected debt service requirements are not expected to have a significant impact on the finances of the
participating municipalities. Loan repayments will start in the sixth year after loan effectiveness and
are estimated to be less than 0.2% of the 1995 budget expenditures in Vilnius and less than 0.3% in
Kaunas.
3.12     Cash-flow and affordability. The financial rates of return of all rehabilitation measures are
positive, assuming that heat tariffs will be adjusted to full cost-recovery by autumn 1997 (see para. 5.6
and Annex 12). Some investment packages with low initial cost and rapid payback time will generate
immediate positive cash-flows. In some other cases, however, investing in energy efficiency
rehabilitation may result in negative cash-flows in the beginning, as heating tariffs have not yet been
7      Typical renovation measures for energy efficiency improvements and their expected savings are discussed in
para. 5.4 and described in more detail in Annex 3 and Annex 12, together with estimated costs as of September 1995.



- 20 -
adjusted to a full cost recovery level.' This will be felt particularly in small buildings with high
investment needs and by the poorest households in such buildings. Affordability analysis assuming
investments ranging from LT 1200 (US$300) to LT 6400 (US$ 1,600) per apartment, with financing at
33% interest (example market rate), 10% downpayment, and graduated payments, indicates that low
income households (monthly incomes at about LT 430 or US$108 - estimated to be around the 10th
percentile) would, f.)r several investment packages, have to allocate more than 10% of their income to
monthly loan payments.9 Only for households with average income of over LT 1,000 or US$250 (30th
percentile and above) would loan payments for a typical investment package represent less than 5% of
their monthly income. Several measures and requirements will be applied in order to limit the risk of
unaffordable payments that may be asked of (poorer) homeowners by a majority in their homeowners'
association (see para. 4.10).
3.13      Consumer acceptance. Hearings and qualitative interviews with households willing to and
already engaged in collective activities for energy efficiency improvements indicated that interest rates
of, at maximum, 15% would be considered acceptable (see Annex 1-C). The reluctance to borrow at
any higher rate is due to serious psychological barriers among Lithuanian citizens that will have to be
overcome in order to engage homeowners' associations in borrowing for residential energy efficiency
improvements. These barriers arise from the social learning cost of moving from a 50 year tradition of
relying on the Government to take care of housing, from the view that the buildings are poorly built and
maintained due to Government neglect in the past, and from widespread mistrust and apprehension
among households conceming the correctness of available information, including information about the
technical and financial feasibility of solutions, future energy costs, and banking institutions. These
barriers are further aggravated by the substantial transaction costs involved in organizing collective
activities within homeowners' associations. Exposure to the Soviet system wherein official lending was
available at 5% interest, has made high interest rates unacceptable to many Lithuanians, regardless of
affordability.
3.14      Proposed Government contribution. In order to provide an incentive to homeowners to form
associations and to apply for loans for rehabilitation investments, the onlending arrangement involves a
Government contribution (see para. 3.5) in the form of an identifiable "matching grant" to the
borrowers' (homeowners' associations or individual homeowners) loan repayments. The size of this
contributions would be indicated in their loan statements issued by the bank. A monthly contribution or
grant is preferred over an "up-front" investment grant since it addresses the Government's contention
that the Government contribution and its precise amount should be evident to program beneficiaries
throughout the life of the loan. A general Government contribution is preferred over a means-tested one
due to the necessity of providing strong incentives for all homeowners to participate in the program.
The Government contribution would be funded from Government counterpart funds. A market lending
rate of 33 %, for example, would initially imply an overall Government contribution level of 44% of
market based loan repayments. As savings on heating bills are proven and borrower experience and
confidence improves, the Government contribution will be adjusted, depending on the market rate and
borrower acceptance. As inflation, and thus the market interest rate declines, the Government
8      Assuming that heating tariffs will be adjusted to full cost recovery by autumn 1997, all eligible investment
packages will result in positive financial rates of return (see Section 5 and Annex 12).
9      For low income households, the existing government subsidy program for residential heating may decrease the
incentive to undertake rehabilitation measures as they do not - or only partially - benefit from the induced savings (see
para 1.9 and Annex 2 for details of the operation of this subsidy program).



- 21 -
contribution would be expected to decline over the life of the project.'∞ Semi-annual reviews of the level
of Government contribution, and thereby the effective cost/interest rate to borrowers, will be a dated
covenant in the Loan Agreement, specifying that the first such review would be held on or before March
31, 1997 (see para. 6. 1 (d)).
3.15      By providing a transitional Government contribution, the program will support the
Government's policy of energy conservation, and over time reduce the psychological barriers mentioned
above such that it can eventually be phased out. Since all Government counterpart funds will be part of
the existing annual budget allocation to the housing sector, this contribution will not be an addition to
but rather a reallocation of existing subsidies. In order to support a future consolidation and
reorientation of Government assistance programs in the sector in general, technical assistance will be
provided for a study of Government housing assistance programs. It will result in a specific action plan
to refocus and target this and other Government housing assistance programs towards the neediest in the
society (social housing) (see also para. 2.12). Finalizing this study will be a dated covenant in the Loan
Agreement, specifying October 1, 1997 as the completion date (see para. 6.1 (g)).
E.     FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR A REVOLVING FUND
3.16      Under the proposed project, Government funds and the Bank loan would provide a total of
about US$13.8 million for energy efficiency rehabilitations of about 200-300 private apartment
buildings and some single family homes and individual apartments. In order to increase the impact of
this pilot project to meet a greater part of the projected financial needs for residential rehabilitation, the
lending for residential energy efficiency improvements will function as a revolving fund (RF) in local
currency. Funds will be channeled through commercial banks. Sources of funds include: (a)
disbursement of the Bank loan and Government contribution for the residential rehabilitations during the
project implementation period 1996-1999; and (b) reflow of loans which have shorter maturity than the
Bank loa.l. The funds generated would be used to finance: (a) the Government's loan repayment
contributions; (b) debt servicing of the full Bank loan including the portion used to finance RF and
project administration; (c) additional loans to support residential energy efficiency rehabilitation
projects; (d) credit and exchange gains/losses; and (e) institutional development and technical assistance
sub-components, as required.
3.17      Proforma projections of the RF and assumptions used for the projections are provided in
Annex 6. The model indicates that, if operated to the fullest extent, the RF would be financially
sustainabNe for about ten years. During this period, the revolving mechanism would allow the RF to
provide loans up to a total of about LT 128 million, or LT 68 million in 1995 terms, after servicing the
Bank loan over the full 20 year period, and providing all Government contributions to loan repayments
for loans given during the 10 year period. Project technical assistance will address policies for
Government's future involvement in the housing sector, which will include the development of a strategy
for redirecting or phasing out this RF (see para. 2.13). Developing such a strategy will be a dated
covenant in the Loan Agreement, specifying October 1, 1997 as the completion date for such strategy
(see para. 6.1 (g)).
'0     To ensure continuing clarity to the borrowers, the loan instrument and periodic payment documentation would
state the fixed market reference rate for the loan and the corresponding loan repayment amount, the Government
contribution, and the resulting net payment from the homeowners' association. Information would also be provided
regarding the current market reference rate and the level of Government contribution for new loans for comparison
purposes.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.1     The institutions directly involved in implementing the project will be: (a) the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), (b) the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that will be part of the Housing Credit
Foundation (HCF), a legal entity founded by the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development
(MCUD), (c) participating conmmercial banks, (d) participating municipalities, and (e) participating
homeowners' associations and individual home owners. The implementation arrangements are designed
to make best possible use of existing institutional capacity, provide for focused project implementation,
and be transitional in nature.
The Ministry of Finance
4.2     The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will be responsible for onlending to participating commercial
banks for residential energy efficiency improvements, and to participating municipalities for school
rehabilitation. It will handle all disbursement transactions to commercial banks and municipalities (see
para. 4.34). MOF will appoint a part-time Disbursement Officer to handle the disbursements for
onlending to PFs and municipalities, and a full-time Implementation Officer for other project related
matters. Adequate staffing of these functions in MOF is a covenant in the Loan Agreement (see para.
6. 1 (a)). Government will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each participating bank and
municipality. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank will be a condition for
disbursement to any participating commercial bank or municipality (see paras. 6.3(a) and 6.3(b)).
The Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Housing Credit Foundation (HCF)
4.3     Administration and coordination of the project, and implementation and coordination of the
institutional development and technical assistance component of the project, will be the responsibility of
a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will be a unit in the Housing Credit Foundation (HCF),
an independent non-profit legal entity that has recently been established by MCUD in order to
coordinate and administer loans and activities aimed at supporting energy efficiency rehabilitations.'"
The PCU within the HCF will engage solely in project implementation activities and not in direct
onlending. Financing for the new entity will be provided out of Government funds. MOF will enter into
an Implementation Agreement with the Foundation regarding the project implementation and
coordination activities to be performed. Signing of an Implementation Agreement acceptable to the
Bank will be a condition for loan effectiveness (see para. 6.2(c)).
4.4     Functions of the PCU The main functions of the PCU will be: (a) to manage and coordinate
the various TA components, in particular assistance and advice provided to homeowners, their
associations, and commercial banks, and thereby support and oversee project implementation; (b) to
identify funding for and contract out the services under the TA; (c) to produce consolidated management
accounts and reports to the Bank for the project, including the onlending activities on the basis of
information provided by MOF and participating commercial banks related to disbursement of sub-loans,
and on the basis of reports provided by TA consultants; (d) to advise and assist municipalities in the
procurement of works and services for the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools, and ensure that
11     The Lithuanian word 'Fondas' can be translated either as 'Fund' or as 'Foundation'. As the entity founded by
MCUD has no lending or direct financing mission with respect to housing projects, to translate 'Fondas' as 'Foundation'
is considered more appropriate here.



- 23 -
Bank guidelines are followed. (Procurement of works for residential rehabilitations will be undertaken
by the final borrowers, having access to technical advice). The PCU will provide a "ruling" on the
eligibility of particular loan applications presented to a participating commercial bank, should a bank
choose to submit such applications for interpretation due to uncertainty regarding their eligibility under
the project. The PCU will closely cooperate with MOF staff engaged in disbursing funds to commercial
banks and municipalities, as outlined in the Implementation Agreement. The PCU will further liaise
with involved Lithuanian institutions, ministries and donor agencies. Other MCUD units will continue
to perform certain information and consultation activities in the area of housing improvements,
supporting and compiementing the activities of the PCU, as appropnate.
4.5     Partners for Technical Assistance. Activities related to Institutional Strengthening, through
the provision of Technical Assistance as described in paras. 2.9, 2.10 and 2. 11, will be contracted out
and undertaken in close cooperation with relevant existing institutions and agencies. Support for
homeowners and homeowners' associations will be provided through existing Associations of
Homeowners' Associations, where appropriate. Advice on energy savings possibilities will be
coordinated with tl,e Energy Information Center of the Lithuanian Energy Agency in MOE. Assistance
to energy consultants and small contractors/construction firms will be organized in close cooperation
with MCUD and relevant associations. A training program regarding long term lending, particularly
lending to the housing sector, will be arranged through or in cooperation with an existing Bank Training
Institute within the Association of Commercial Banks (see Annex 5 for a summary of the various
technical assistance components).
4.6     Staffing and Organization of the PCU. The PCU will initially consist of a minimum of four
staff, including a manager, a TA coordinator, an implementation officer and an accounting/reporting
officer. Government has already appointed a PCU manager and a TA coordinator. The operating costs
of the PCU will be financed out of Government funds. MOF will exchange with the PCU periodic
management reports and account information for consolidated project reporting, as specified in the
Implementation Agreement. A project launch workshop will be held after the approval by the Bank's
Board, later in 1996. The workshop would combine training for the PCU staff with information for and
discussions with relevant stakeholders, as appropriate. Evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the PCU
is appropriately staffed is a condition for loan effectiveness (see para. 6.2 (b)).
4.7     The Board of the Foundation. According to Lithuanian legislation on non-profit legal
entities, the Housing Credit Foundation will have a Board. This Board will be chaired by a secretary of
MCUD and be composed of representatives of relevant Government mninistries (MOF, MCUD, MOE)
and other agencies with no potential conflict of interest. It is expected that this will ensure strong
interministerial coordination for the project, particularly between MOF, MCUD, MOE and Bank of
Lithuania. The Board will be responsible in particular for: (a) Government policy decisions related to
the project; and (b) coordination with other ministries regarding financing and promotion of residential
energy efficiency. The Board will replace the board of the Credit Fund for Renovation and
Rehabilitation (CFRI), the predecessor of the new legal entity that has functioned as an inter-ministerial
committee since 1994, under the authority of MOF (see para. 1.18). Quarterly meetings of the HCF
Board to review the implementation of the project is required as a covenant in the Loan Agreements (see
para. 6.1(1)). Prior to negotiations a modified draft Decree No. 1209, acceptable to the Bank, was
passcd by Government for the transfer of the previous Credit Fund for Rehabilitation and Insulation
(CFRI) to the Housing Credit Foundation (HCF).



- 24 -
Financial Intermediation (Commercial Banks)
4-8     The financial intermediaries will be eligible commercial banks. In order to limit the risk for
the Govcrnment, participating banks will be selected based on the same critcria as those uscd for the
Bank's financial sector operation in Lithuania, including having an acceptable audit report, providing a
Certificate of Compliance from the Bank of Lithuania (BOL), and comply ing with various financial
requirements (see Annex 7). Three Lithuanian banks are expected to be qualified according to these
criteria, two of them have. at this stage, agreed to bc financial intcrmediarics for the prolcct ThcN v i!l
play a key role in channeling loan funds, including project appraisal based on spccific cligibility criteria
and collection of payments from beneficiaries.
Participating Homeowners' Associations and Individual Homeowners
4.9      The main focus of the credit program will be lending to homeowners' associations Loans
may also be made to qualified oivners of single family homes as well as to individual apartment owners.
However, individual apartment owners would be eligible as borrowers only if the association in thcir
building would have taken a loan regarding common areas. Eligibility criteria for borrowers qualified to
apply for a loan, and criteria for eligible investments (sub-projects), are included as Annex 7. As this is
an entirely demand driven project, homeowners and homeowners' associations xwill have to come
forward themselves and apply for loans. The financing available for residential energy efficiency
rehabilitations (see Table 3.1 in Section 3) is expected to cover lending to an estimated number of 200-
300 homeovners associations, corresponding to about 14,000 apartmcnt owners. and additional ow\ners
of single famllv homes and apartments. Homeowners and homeowners associations will themselves be
responsible for implementing their respective investments, including procurement and supervision of
works, based on guidelines provided by the PCU. Advice and consulting services will be available
through advisory centers and other technical assistance arrangements (see para. 2 9).
4.10     Household incomes vary considerably within any particular building, and low-income
households are found in virtually all buildings. These households could be placed in a vulnerable
position if majoritv decisions in their association commit them to repayments that exceed their means
The following measures and requirements will be applied in order to limit the risk of unaffordable
payment demands: (a) careful assessment of the energy savings estimates of individual loan applications
by the banks, with the banks being provided access to technical expertise, as required, through projcct
technical assistance, (b) for loans resulting in monthly repayments which, added to the heating costs,
exceed the nation-wide standard heating tariff per m2, a requirement for a 2/3 majority in favor of the
loan at a general meeting of the homeowners' association; and (c) for loans resulting in monthly
repayments which, added to the heating cost, exceed twice the nation-wide standard heating tariff per m-
at the time of the decision, a requirement that all apartment owners (not just association members)
would have voted in favor of such a loan. In addition, homeowners' associations will be encouraged.
through the project infornation program, to take into account individual households' ability to pay in
deciding on investment amounts, and in allocating the proposed Government loan repayment
contribution among apartment owners. In order to enhance overall loan collectibility from homeowners'
associations additional requirements will be applied: (a) an up-front downpayment requirement from
the borrower of 10% of the investment amount; and (b) confirmed good payment record on the part of
the borrower for all utilities. Evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that Operating Procedures (including
eligibility criteria) acceptable to the Bank have been adopted is a condition for loan effectiveness (see
para. 6.2 (d)).
4.11     The generation and distribution of reliable inforrnation on the affordability of energy savings
investments will be an important part of the program. Therefore, all participating homeowners and



- 25 -
homeowncrs' associations will be involved in an extensive monitoring program that encompasses
technical and financial aspects of the investments as well as social and organizational aspects of the
implementing energy savings measures through homeowners' associations. The results of the
monitoring activities will be made available to the general public through a wide-ranging public
information program. Further surveys will be conducted in order to assess changes in attitudes and
behavior of homeowners with respect to residential energy efficiency rehabilitations such that the
ongoing program (e.g. advice provided, Government contribution to loan repayment) can be adjusted
accordingly (see also paras. 4.21, 4.22, and 4.23).
4.12     During negotiations, the Government agreed to maintain policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of its objectives (see para. 6.1 (c)). By June 1, 1998 (or one and a half year after loan
effectiveness) Government will undertake a comprehensive mid-tenn review of the project and refine the
design together with the Bank, as appropriate (see para. 6.1 (j)).
Participating Municipalities for Schools Component
4.13     Participating municipalities will initially be the municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas. Each
municipality would implement their school rehabilitation program, estimated to comprise civil works on
three to eight schools per municipality depending on the size of the investments in individual buildings.
Implementation would be carried out through the existing organizational structure of the respective
municipality with assistance from the PCU.
Legal Arrangements
4.14     The onlending arrangements for the Residential Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation Component
would be documented as follows:
(a) The Government of Lithuania would, through the Ministry of Finance enter into Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, approved by the Bank, with participating commercial banks. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreements will, among other things, establish the use of funds and the eligibility criteria for end
borrowers, on-lending terms and conditions between the Government and the bank, terms and
conditions for onlending by the banks to end borrowers, arrangements for the project-specific
Government contribution, and loan effectiveness conditions. Signing of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with at least one commercial bank, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for
loan effectiveness (see para. 6.2(a)). Signing of additional subsidiary loan agreements will be a
condition of disbursement of funds for onlending to those banks (see para. 6.3(b)).
(b) Participating commercial banks would enter into Sub-loan Agreements with homeowners'
associations and individual home owners. The sub-loan agreements will, among other things,
establish the loan amount, the use of funds, and terms and conditions, including applicability and
arrangements for the Government contribution (see para. 3.14). Prior to negotiations,
Government submitted a draft model sub-loan agreement between banks and borrowers, to the
Bank for review.
4.15     The onlending arrangement for the Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation of schools would be as
follows: The Republic of Lithuania (Ministry of Finance) would enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, approved by the Bank, with each participating municipality. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreements will establish, among other things, the loan anount for the municipality, the use of funds,



- 26 -
on-lending terms and conditions, and loan effectiveness conditions, if any. Signing of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with a project municipality will be a condition of
disbursement for the funds to be on-lent to that municipality (see para. 6.3(a)).
4.16     The Republic of Lithuania (Ministry of Finance) would enter into an Implementation
Agreement, approved by he Bank, with the Housing Credit Foundation, which will establish, among
other things, project implementation and coordination responsibilities, use of project and donor funds for
technical assistance activities, and accounting and reporting requirements. Signing of the
Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Housing Credit Foundation will be a
condition for loan effectiveness (see para. 6.2(c)).
Project Implementation Plan
4.17     The Borrower's project implementation plan (PIP) was discussed during negotiations. It
includes arrangements for the timely provision of all necessary inputs, adequate staffing of the PCU,
key activities and estimated time-table of implementation, technical assistance, implementation of
adequate financial management procedures, specification of the monitoring and evaluation system to be
applied, performance indicators and implementation of other operational procedures required for
effective project execution.
4.18     In addition to the PIP, the Borrower is defining Operating Procedures (OP) for the project
implementation activities containing more detailed guidelines to the PCU and other organizations
involved in implementing the agreements reached with the Government. Evidence satisfactory to the
Bank, that Operating Procedures acceptable to the Bank have been adopted will be a condition of
effectiveness (see para. 6.2(d)).
B.    SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.19     Project emphasis on monitoring and evaluation. As the project is a pilot, one of its
objectives is to draw lessons from implementation. This applies in particular to project areas that
involve: (a) reducing energy consumption through affordable rehabilitation packages; (b) promoting
self-management of apartment buildings regarding individual and group activities; (c) commercial banks
as financial intermediaries, and (d) subsidy and affordability aspects. Project monitoring will
systematically gather data that can be used to measure progress in meeting the project objectives and to
identify problems that impede progress. The monitoring programs will thus ultimately serve both the
ongoing monitoring needs of project management and the periodic stocktaking and evaluation needs of
various stakeholders to ensure replicability of the program. Performance indicators for technical and
social monitoring as well as project monitoring are described in Annex 8. Agreements were reached on
the performance indicators for all project objectives at negotiations (see para. 6. I(c)).
4.20      Technical monitoring and evaluation. The project will support a range of technical
interventions that will be chosen by the homeowners through their homeowners' associations. The
technologies of these energy-saving interventions is evolving and local capacity is expanding. This fluid
environment calls for careful monitoring of project inputs and impacts. Monitoring of technical aspects
will include: (i) energy consumption records for each building that is retrofitted, including baseline data,
and the costs to owners; (ii) perceived comfort improvements on the part of owners; (iii) technological
advances introduced or utilized; and (iv) progress in training consultants.



- 27 -
4.21      Social and institutional monitoring and evaluation. Social and institutional monitoring
during the implementation of the project will be more intense than normal project monitoring for several
reasons. First, the project offers the opportunity to learn and apply lessons quickly for the design of a
larger, nationwide program. Second, systematic social monitoring will provide a rich database for
impact evaluation and strong data for attribution. Finally, systematic social and institutional monitoring
will in itself constitute a powerful participatory mechanism. In particular, the beneficiary-focus of the
monitoring will provide a mirror through which other stakeholders can assess their performance in
meeting project objectives, identify areas to improve and specify ways to make the improvements, such
as procedural changes, pcrsonnel training, or other.
4.22      Project performance monitoring, supervision and evaluation. Project monitoring will be
the responsibility of the PCU, contracting out most of these functions, as appropriate. Separate studies
to monitor issues related to energy savings, affordability, construction/building material industry, etc
may also be commnissioned by the PCU. The PCU will furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis
including: (i) quarterly progress and financial management reports (on a monthly basis upon request);
(iH) audited project accounts kept by the PCU and MOF, and audited annual financial statements of the
Housing Credit Foundation within six months after each financial year; and (iii) additional information
that the Bank may request from time to time. Audited financial statements of participating banks will
also be provided annually. Reporting requirements, and supervision schedule were confirmed at
negotiations (para. 6.1 (k)).
4.23      Performance will be monitored and evaluated on an ongoing basis by the Bank. In addition,
the Government and the Bank will have annual reviews to exchange views on the status of project
implementation, particularly regarding: (a) the performance of participating banks, MOF, and the PCU
in project implementation procedures agreed with the Bank, and (b) adjustments in the project that may
be required to improve implementation of its objectives, including allocation of financing between the
project components. Indicators will track the progress of lending and physical works, the impact on
energy use and costs to the consumer, and experiences by project participants. Agreement was reached
at negotiations on annual reviews (para. 6.1 (f)) and on the performance indicators for all project
objectives (para. 6.1 (c) and Annex 8).
4.24      A mid-term review will be carried out about a year and a half after project effectiveness. A
thorough project evaluation will be undertaken at that stage to determine if project design,
implementation arrangements, or terms and conditions should be revised in order better to meet the
needs. In particular, evaluation will be performed regarding the effectiveness of the advisory services to
homeowners' associations and the performance of participating banks. Final project evaluation will be
undertaken after project completion.
4.25      As this is the first Bank-supported investment loan in the sector, and given the pilot
characteristics of the project, the project is expected to require a significant supervision effort.
Therefore, it is planned that about 25 staff weeks of effort for the first year and about 15 staff weeks in
each of the following three years would be required for supervision. A detailed supervision plan is
attached as Annex 9. The supervision schedule was confirmed at negotiations (see para. 6. 1 (k)).
C.   PROCUREMENT
4.26      Lithuania has a tradition of a capable construction industry. It is adjusting effectively to the
structural changes of economic transition and the resulting new market conditions by privatizing and



- 28 -
downsizing. New small companies are entering the market to meet the demand for small-scale private
construction and renovation. Both local and imported materials are readily available in Lithuania, and
there are no restrictions on the import or use of foreign construction materials as long as they meet the
standards of the exporting country and Lithuanian environmental standards. Design and construction
professionals are readily available, and Government is promoting competitive bidding (for details on the
industry, see Annex 3). Because of the limited size of contracts and their geographical distribution, all
civil works under the project is expected to be undertaken by local contractors.
4.27     Since Lithuania does not have a long tradition of competitive bidding for procurement of
public goods and services, a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this
stage. A Country Procurement Note (CPN) dated May, 1995, was prepared, which established that the
Government has started to introduce forms of competitive bidding.
4.28     Small works - procurement for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation. Procurement
for residential energy efficiency rehabilitation will be undertaken by the concerned homeowners'
associations and homeowners respectively up to an estimated amount of US$15.4 million. under sub-
loans provided by PFIs. The cost of civil works for individual contracts is expected to range from
approximately US$5,000 to US$150,000 with an estimated average of US$80,000 per expected
contract. They shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of written
quotations obtained from three qualified contractors. Procurement advice provided by consultants in
advisory centers established under the project, will be available for sub-borrowers upon request. The
current list of contractors registered with MCUD will be provided to sub-borrowers. The project team
noted that the existing procedures for registration of contractors, which is performed on a continuing
basis, would be satisfactory for the requirements of the project. MCUD will periodically advertise in
local newspapers to seek applications from interested contractors. Contractors will be evaluated based
on criteria acceptable to the Bank, including experience, technical capability and financial capability. A
maximum contracting capacity of the contractors will be assigned by specialty, and continuously
monitored and updated. The Bank would review and give no objection to decisions to award contracts
regarding procurement by the first two homeowners' associations and the first two single family home
owners (sub-borrowers) for each participating bank. Although not envisaged for residential
rehabilitation, should there be any contracts valued at above US$250,000, these would also be subject
to prior review by the Bank. Further details on the procurement arrangements are included in Annex 11.
4.29     Civil works - procurement for energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools. Procurement of
civil works financed under the Bank loan for the schools in participating municipalities will be
undertaken by the coticemed municipality and in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
The works will be procured under NCB on the basis of local advertisement. For contracts valued at less
than US$400,000, up to an aggregate of US$2.1 million (including counterpart funds), the Bank's
Regional NCB Samnple Bidding Documents for procurement of small works will be used, as
supplemented or modified with the approval of the Bank. Even though these contracts are small and
may not attract foreign bidders, foreign contractors will not be excluded from participation.
Procurement advice will be provided by staff in the PCU with procurement experience from previous
Bank operations. Works estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount estimated not to exceed US$500,000 will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified contractors. There are no
contracts valued at above US$400,000 envisaged in this project. The prior review threshold for civil
works for rehabilitation of schools would be US$250,000 except that the Bank will review and give no
objection to decisions to award contracts for the first two contracts by each participating municipality.
All contracts above this prior review threshold will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million)
Procurement Method
NCB        Other        N-B.F.     Total Cost
Civil Works
I. Residential Rehabilitation Component                  -        15.4 a_/        -           15.4
(Mechanical infrastructure/heating system,                        (8.2)                    (8.2)
construction works, repair/refurbishing works)
2. School Rehabilitation Component
2.1 Vilnius: Rehabilitation of Schools                0.9       0.15 b_/        -           1.05
(0.7)       (0.1)                     (0.8)
2 2 Kaunas: Rehabilitation of Schools                 0.9       0.15 b /        -           1.05
(0.7)       (0.1)                     (0.8)
Consultancies
I. Institutional Development and Technical               -           -           2.9          2.9
Assistance
2. Other Consulting Services                             -         0.2 c/         -            0.2
(0.2)                    (0.2)
Totals                                                  1.8         15.9         2.9          20.6
(1.4)       (8.6)                    (10.0)
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are World Bank loan amounts.
a_/ Procured by final borrowers on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified contractors.
b_/ If a contract for school rehabilitation is less than USS50,000, procurement will be identical to those applicable
for homeowners' associations, i.e. civil works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified contractors.
c_/ Consulting services financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for use of
consultants.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed. Bilateral grant and/or Government counterpart funds (US$2.9 million).
4.30       Procurement of technical assistance funded by parallel bilateral or other donor financing
will follow the donor's procurement procedures. Technical assistance is not expected to require
financing by the Bank. Should it become necessary for procurement of technical assistance or other
consultant services to be financed by the Bank, such procurement would follow the Bank's Guidelines
for Use of Consultants (August 1981). Such consulting services estimated not to exceed US$200,000
would be related to the rehabilitation of schools. All terms of reference regardless of contract value
would be subject to the Bank's prior review. In addition, prior review by the Bank will be required for
all consulting contracts with firms valued at US$100,000 and above, and all contracts with individuals
valued at US$50,000 or above.
4.31       The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4. 1  a detailed description is
provided in Annex 1 1. Implementation arrangements are explained in Section IV.A. Quarterly progress
reports will be submitted to the Bank as described in para. 4.22. A project launch workshop will be
held in September, 1996. Procurement arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (see para 6. 1 (k)).
D.      DISBURSEMENTS
4.32       Disbursenicnts will be administered by the Ministry of Finance, for onlending to commercial
banks, and to municipalities for rehabilitation of schools (see table 4.2 for Disbursement Categories).
Residential energy efficiency rehabilitation disbursements to suppliers of works or services to their bank



- 30 -
accounts in Lithuania or elsewhere would be made by the participating bank providing the loan, being
provided funds from MOF. Disbursements, for the energy efficiency rehabilitation of schools. to
suppliers of works or services to their bank accounts in Lithuania or elsewhere would be made by MOF
Disbursements to suppliers of technical assistance services would be made by the PCU, being provided
funds from MOF. Since the project seeks to encourage small and medium-size contractors for local
rehabilitation works, it is important that contractors and consultants be paid promptly for services
rendered.
4.33     Disbursements for civil works and consultant contracts will be made on the basis of certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) detailing the individual transactions, should the Borrower decide to
make disbursements to participating banks or pay certain contracts with Governnent funds before being
reimbursed from the Bank. The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by
MOF for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review to auditors and the
Bank upon request. Full documentation would be required for withdrawal applications: (a) for ex-
penditures on civil works contracts over US$250,000; and (b) for consultant contracts, to consulting
firms above US$ 100,000, and to individual consultants above US$50,000. Minimum size of appli-
cations for payments directly from the loan account and issuance of special commitments would amount
to 20% of the authorized allocation to the Special Account, or US$160,000 (see. para. 4.35) All other
disbursements would be against full standard documentation as described in the World Bank's Dis-
bursement Handbook.. Disbursement arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (see para. 6. 1 (k)).
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories
Category                 Loan Amount          Expenditure to be Financed*
(in US$ million)
1. Sub-loans: Residential Rehabilitation    7.2              70% of sub-loan amounts
2. Civil works: Rehabilitation of Schools    1.7             80% of total expenditures
3. Consultant services                       0.1             100% of total expenditures
4. Unallocated                               1.0
Total                       10.0
net of taxes and duties
4.34     The proceeds of the Loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the disbursement
schedule shown in Arniex 10, and summarized below, over a period of four years. No standard
disbursement profile exists for energy or housing projects in Lithuania or in the region. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2000 with a Closing Date of December 31, 2000. The Bank loan
of US$ 10.0 million is estimated to be disbursed as follows:
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
Institution:       FY 1997        FY 1998   |  FY 1999         FY 2000          Total
IBRD                 0.6            2.7      I     3.2            3.5           10.0
4.35     To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower may establish a Special Account (SA) in
US$ in a foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's
share of expenditures. The Special Account would be managed by MOF. The Authorized Allocation
would be US$ 800,000, representing about four months of estimated average expenditures made
through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special
Account would be limited to US$ 400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan



- 31 -
have reached the level of US$ 1,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized
Allocation of US$ 800,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has
been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow
the standard Bank procedure as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.
E.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
4.36     Accounting. The Borrower will be responsible for appropriate accounting and auditing of
the project, for reporting of the use of project funds, and for ensuring that audits of financial statements
and reports are submitted to the Bank. The PCU on behalf of the Borrower, and in collaboration with
the MOF, PFIs, and participating municipalities, will establish appropriate accounting systems to
provide information on the sources and uses of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. Project
accounts; including the Special Account, would be maintained according to international accounting
standards in four categories: (a) in the MOF, for the onlending to commercial banks; (b) in the MOF,
for the onlending to municipalities for rehabilitation of schools; (c) in the PCU, for consultant services
for institutional development and technical assistance, and for project operating expenditures; and (d) in
PFIs, for sub-loans with supporting procurement and disbursement documentation. The PCU will have
the overall responsibility for project coordination and consolidated project reporting. To ensure the
accountability for project funds, MOF, PCU, PFIs and participating municipalities will: (a) maintain
records of receipts and disbursement of all funds used for the project, (b) maintain internal controls to
ensure that receipts and payments are accurately recorded on a timely basis, and that assets and
liabilities are adequately controlled; (c) report on the use of funds; (d) facilitate verification of these
reports by independent auditors; and (e) provide all information, as required, to PCU for reporting
purposes. MOF will maintain documentation supporting disbursement requests made through SOEs.
MOF, PCU and participating municipalities will maintain accounts for project funds separately from
any other existing accounts. Participating commercial banks will maintain accounts for loans financed
by project funds separately from any other existing accounts.
4.37     Auditing. The PCU will also be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, and in close
collaboration with the MOF, PFIs, and participating municipalities, for submitting to the Bank annual
audits no later than six months after the end of each financial year (Lithuania's financial year is January
I - December 31) of project accounts kept at the PCU, the MOF, and PFIs, as well as audited annual
financial statements of the Housing Credit Foundation with accompanied management letters with
recommendations. The audits will be performed by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank,
according to standards acceptable to the Bank, and under terms of reference also satisfactory to the
Bank. The audits would be carried out in accordance with intemational standards and be undertaken by
auditors qualified for the task. The audits will include the project accounts and related financial
management procedures, bank accounts, and a separate opinion on the SOEs and the SA. In addition,
audited financial statements of participating banks will also be provided annually to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of each financial year. The PFI audits will include a certification that the
bank continues tc be in compliance with the eligibility criteria for participation in the project.
Accounting and reporting arrangements were confirmed during negotiations (see para 6.1 (k)).



- 32 -
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.     IMPACT ANALYSIS
5.1     The project will have a positive impact for the economy in general as well as for its most
direct beneficiaries. The economic analysis presented here distinguishes between quantifiable and non-
quantifiable benefits and then goes on to analyze risks associated with the project that may, at least in
part, prevent the expected benefits to emerge. The project's main benefits lie in its focus on
encouraging individuals and groups of citizens to assume responsibility for their housing assets,
something still very new in FSU countries. While these benefits are hard to quantify, the project's
quantifiable benefits are expected to be substantial as demonstrated in an economic rate of return of
approximately 26% (see para. 5.7).
Non-guantifiable Impact
5.2     The project's non-quantifiable benefits lie in its incentives and support for individuals to form
homeowners' associations and to participate in their activities. This is expected to improve and sustain
the privatization of housing and the citizens' approach and commitment to democratic decision-making
processes and organizations. Other non-quantifiable benefits from the project include: (a) support for
the reorientation of the energy sector through increasing consumer awareness and activity; (b) private
sector development as small and medium sized enterprises gain access to training and to a new set of
customers; and (c) extension of services in the financial sector (see also para. 1.26). It may also be
expected that there will be an impact on technological change, development and marketing of locally
produced building materials, mechanical equipment and insulation materials. Through the project,
organizational, technical and financial mechanisms for intervention in developing the housing market
will be tested and the experiences of this pilot project are expected to form the foundation for a larger
program in the sector.
Quantifiable Impact
5.3     The project's main quantifiable benefits consist of energy savings. While no other
quantifiable benefits have been evaluated for the analysis presented here these may derive from the
improvement in the building stock, increased comfort and health for the inhabitants, or environmental
improvements. Also, additional resource savings and reductions of homeowners' expenditure for heat
may result from a decreasing need for supplementary heating. About 16% of households in urban areas
are estimated to use additional heat systems, such as electric heaters, to complement the insufficient
temperatures provided by the DH system (see Annex I for a survey on consumer behavior and
attitudes). With better insulation households will no longer have to use these devices. The resulting
savings have not been evaluated, however, as the information on the frequency of the use of
supplementary heat is insufficient. In addition, homeowners will benefit from an increase in the value of
their apartment as a consequence of their investments. This increase would enter the calculation of the
financial rate of return as an additional benefit only as far as the increase is not derived from the lower
energy bill but from lower maintenance cost and reduced occurrence of leaks and other damage that may
arise due to insufficient heating and insulation.'2 Neither those nor other, tangible or intangible benefits,
have been quantified for the analysis below (for a summary of the evaluation of the savings, both for the
economy as a whole and for homeowners undertaking investmnents, see Tables 4 and 5 in Annex 12).
12     The quantification of the increase in value is difficult because real estate markets are only beginning to function
in Lithuania.



- 33 -
5.4      Energy savings, for the economy as a whole, are evaluated as resource savings only, as they
occur in the reduction in the economy's consumption of natural gas, mazut and other fossil fuels that are
imported.3 For the individual homeowners who invest in energy efficiency measures, benefits are
evaluated through savings on their heating bill. As the project takes a program approach, the exact
extent and type of investments that will be financed cannot be determined ex ante. The analysis
presented here is based on technical assessments of a number of examples, 14 apartment buildings, one
single family home and one school (details of the analysis can by found in Annex 12). These examples
have been weighted according to their representativity for the Lithuanian housing stock. The economic
and financial returns have been calculated, based on these examples, using certain behavioral and
economic assumptions discussed below.
5.5      Assumptions concern foremost the choice and composition of energy efficiency measures. As
the objective of this project is to pilot, and better understand, the functioning of a demand-side program
that is based on private initiative, homeowners will not be required to undertake any specific measures,
e.g. only those measures that would affect heat consumption most14. Since homeowners' financial
resources arc limited, it is, however, assumed that all homeowners will opt for rehabilitation measures
that result at least in some energy savings. Thus, the 'packages' of investments that, for simplicity
reasons, form the basis for the analysis presented here, all contain temperature control valves as the
minimum measure necessary to achieve energy savings. Three 'packages' were assumed (A, B, and C)
combining various measures at varying cost and varying impact intensity on heat consumption (see
Tables I and 2 in Annex 12). In comparison to package A, packages B and C involve additional
rehabilitation measures with lower pay-offs in terms of energy savings. Such measures may be chosen
by homeowners and homeowners' associations for reasons other than only to save energy, e.g. the wish
or the necessity to improve and maintain the building envelope at the same time. Therefore, it is
assumed that, even though package A would result in the highest returns, only 60% of the buildings will
be rehabilitated with this package, 30% with package B, and 10% with package C (see also para. 5.15
below). As no particular measure will be mandatory, however, some homeowners in seriously
underheated buildings may still choose to invest in rehabilitation measures that would only raise indoor
temperatures and not save energy (e.g. only improving insulation, without installing temperature control
vaives). The effects of such choices on the calculated project returns are evaluated in the sensitivity
anialysis below.
5.6      Other assumptions concern the investments, in particular their amount and timing and the
prices of different measures. It is assumed that 6% of the investments will take place in year 1, 27% in
year 2, 32% in year 3, and 35% in year 4. The exact shares of foreign and local materials cannot be
determined ex ante. Most materials are now available in Lithuania, at lower prices than comparable
forcign materials. Prices of capital goods as well as heat tariffs are those of October 1995 (heating
season 1995/1996). While prices of capital goods are assumed constant in real terms, heat tariffs are
assumed to increase to reach full cost-recovery level before the heating season 1997/1998 and to be
constant in real terms thereafter.
13     Fuel savings resulting from investments under this project will not be large, since the total loan amount is
relatively small - corresponding to the pilot character of the project - and will result in energy efficiency rehabilitations for
relatively few buildings in Lithuania (approximately 250 apartment buildings and 12 schools).
14     Homeowners and their associations will be required, however, to install building-level heat-meters if these do
not exist already as otherwise monitoring of energy savings would not be possible and the project's intended
demonstration effect could not be achieved.



- 34 -
5.7       Quantifying energy savings, expected to arise under the stated assumptions, results for the
whole project in an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 25.9% and in a Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
of 3 1.2% (see Table 5. I).15 The economic rate of return is lower than the financial rate of return since
the economic evaluation does not take into account externalities and captures only savings in variable
fuel costs. Only in the long term, or with a considerably bigger investment, would savings in other
variable costs and in capital costs materialize (see para. 12, Annex 12). Taking into account such long-
term effects as well as the demonstration effect associated with the activities financed by the project,
and the associated externalities (see paras. 1.26 and 5.1), would further increase the calculated ERR.
Table 5.1: Base Case: Project FRR and ERR
Share        Base Case* FRR           Base Case* ERR
Apartment buildings. average RR            78.3                33.2                    27.7
Single family homes                          8.7                15.5                    7.7
Schools                                     13.0               29.7                    27.2
Total Project                               100                31.2                    25.9
* The assumptions for this Base Case are: Costs and energy savings according to technical assessments, heat tariffs to reach
full cost recovery level by the end of 1997, investment according to assumptions in Annex 12, paras. 1-3.
B.      PROJECT RISKS
5.8      Various quantifiable and non-quantifiable risks exist that may endanger successful project
implementation. Those risks, the likelihood of their occurrence, appropriate mitigation measures, and
an analysis of their impact on the expected project returns, are discussed below. Quantifiable risks
relate to incentives: (a) that the Government will not adjust energy prices and/or existing heating subsidy
programs appropriately, and hence make the cash flow of investments not sufficiently attractive to
individual households; (b) that energy savings have been overestimated; (c) that the costs for the
rehabilitation measures rise significantly; and (d) that interest rates may raise so as to deem the project-
specific Government contribution unsustainable. Other risks, specifically related to the institutional and
behavioral environment of project implementation are hard to quantify. These risks are: (a) the
organizational capabilitics of homeowners and their associations are overestimated, (b) too few
households will be able or willing to participate; and (c) within the given legal franework, homeowners'
associations may not be able to fulfill the role of borrowers and significant payment arrears will occur
(see para. 3.8).
Likelihood of Risks and Mitigation Measures
5.9      The likelihood of situations to occur that may risk project success, and appropriate mitigation
measures, vary substantially with the respective situation. For example, it is considered unlikely that,
given the current budget situation, the Government would not adjust energy prices appropriately and
increase heating prices to full cost recovery level. Ongoing Government discussions with the Bank,
is      The RRs for the complete investment component for apartment buildings were computed as a weighted average
of the RRs for the fourteen assessed buildings, assuming a distribution of 60:30:10 between packages A, B and C, and
weighted according to the building types' relative importance with respect to the overall urban structures (see Table 6 in
Annex 12 for the weightings which correspond to the prevalence of particular building types in urban areas in Lithuania).
The RRs calculated for investments in single family homes are generally much lower than those calculated for investments
in apartment buildings. For the calculation of the overall project RRs, the average RRs of the three investment
components (apartment buildings, single family homes, schools) were weighted according to the allocation of project
funds (see Table 3.1 in Section 3).



- 35 -
concerning the possibi!ity of a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), and with the IMF, indicate a strong
political commitment to raising heating tariffs to full cost recovery.
5.10      The existing heating subsidy program, if not adjusted by the Government, may indeed
constitute a negative incentive for households, discouraging them from investments in residential energy
efficiencN rehabilitation, as it is tied to households' income and not to their expenditure for heating (see
Annex 2) However. households' expectations concerning the future of the subsidy and the development
of their ow%n income are likely to mitigate most of the effect of this negative incentive. Only about 10%
of households arc estimated to have no interest in investing in improvements as a result of the heating
subsidy. As the proposed project would provide financing only for about 200-300 buildings, the
negative incentive for this particular group is not likely to endanger overall successful project
implementation. Also, the project's institution building component entails the provision for a detailed
studv of Government policies in the sector that should lead to a redirection of the subsidy to low income
households only (see para 2.1 1).
5. I1     Dramatic changes in the market interest rate could deem the project-specific Government
contribution unsustainable. The Government contribution will be financed out of project funds; its size
is linked to the diffecrence between an initially fixed level of cost to the borrower (15%) and the average
of Government Treasury Bill rates'6 with the longest maturity available, issued over the previous six
months, plus five percent. If interest rates were to rise excessively, as could happen if the current,
difficult situation in the financial sector was not dealt with successfully, the project-specific Government
contribution would become more and more costly and the total amount needed to finance it would
increase Initially this would only shorten the lifetime of the Revolving Fund, as described in paras.
3.16 and 3.17. and the number of investments that can be undertaken would be more limited. While this
will not affect the calculated economic rate of return, higher than expected interest rates mav reach a
level at Nvhich the Government contribution in the form defined for the project (see para. 3.14) would
not be sustainable  In this case, the level of contribution would be reviewed with the Government and,
as appropriate, the effective cost of borrowing would be raised in accordance with changes in market
rates and inflation so as to maintain the project's viability to the economy as a whole.
5. 12     A test and learning activity was undertaken, as part of project preparation, in order to
mitigate implementation risks as they may emerge in relation to the organizational capabilities of
homeowners and their associations, their willingness to participate, and their ability to fulfill the role of
borrowers This tcst activity included assisting selected homeowners' associations through the
organizational, borrowing, and rehabilitation process involved in residential energy efficiency
rehabilitations. On the basis of this test program appropriate technical assistance components were
designed such as advisory centers and other support to homeowners' associations. As the scope of the
project has been kept relatively small, and the implementation arrangements are relatively simple,
technical assistance can be provided to address key issues with all relevant stakeholders (see Annex 5).
5.13      Amongst the implementation risks mentioned, the risk that homeowners associations will not
be able to fulfill the role of borrowers, and that consequently commercial banks will allow payment
arrears to occur, has in particular been considered carefully. Therefore, the project design gives
attention to reducing the risk of deficiencies in loan repayment by ensuring that: (a) households are
correctly advised not to undertake investments whose repayments exceed their means to repay; (b)
banks are able to correctly assess expected energy savings in loan applications presented to them, and
i6     Mid-January 1996, the rate for one month T-bills was 26.7% while three month T-bills were sold at 28.5%.
Mid-May 1996. the average three month T-bill rate was 18.8%.



- 36 -
(c) households are given positive incentives to continue repaying their loans. Technical assistance
provided to homeowners' associations will allow homeowners to develop informed decisions about the
most desirable investments, on the basis of careful assessments of cost and potential energy savings.
Eligibility requirements that link the size of an investment to the degree of consensus within any given
association will protect poorer households from being forced - possibly by richer neighbors - into
commitments that may exceed their means. Commercial banks will receive assistance for the appraisal
of loan applications in order to be able to correctly assess expected energy savings. As an indication of
homeowners' sincerity with respect to loan repayment, they will be required to provide themselves, up-
front, a downpayment arnounting to 10% of their total investment. A further indication will be provided
through the requirement that associations may not have outstanding utility arrears (see eligibility criteria
in Annex 7). The monthly Government contribution to households' loan repayments that will, for a
transitory period, as a 'matching grant' reduce the costs of the loan to the homeowners to an effective
interest rate of 15%, is expected to be an important positive incentive for continuing loan repayment. It
will be made visible to homeowners through their account statements which the association will be
required to distribute to all homeowners- Incentives/penalties through the heating billing mechanism are
not considered feasible or appropriate as the loans will be provided through commercial banks which,
for the enforcement of loan repayments, would have to rely on usual collection procedures in lending
arrangements.
5.14     The conditions under which commercial banks will act as Government's agents in the
onlending program are designed such that banks are not only obligated, by contract, to corroborate but
also have a financial interest in the timely collection of loan repayments. Part of the court cost to
commercial banks from initiating court procedures against a defaulting association will be reimbursed
out of project funds. It should be noted, however, that the payment performance among private
households with respect to heating bills appears to be relatively good. While the district heating
companies note high payment arrears during winter months, households usually pay their outstanding
bills during the summer months.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.15     The project risks taken into account in the sensitivity analysis include: (a) heat tariffs not
being adjusted by the Government to full cost recovery as assumed; (b) lower than expected energy
savings resulting from investments; and (c) higher than expected costs for labor and materials. Overall,
RRs generated by the project will remain well above the 15% level for most of the simulated changes in
parameters while the variations differ, depending on whether investments are undertaken in apartment
buildings, single family homes, or schools (for details of the sensitivity analysis, see Tables 8 and 9 in
Annex 12). If heat tariffs would continue to be set at a level at which cost recovery is only about 60%,
the FRR would fall from 31% to 18% while the ERR would remain unchanged. However, even at a
FRR of 18% most investments would still be attractive enough as to not endanger overall project
iniplementation.
5.16     While project returns will fall as a consequence of achieving less than expected energy
savings, the degree by which they fall will depend on the reason for which less savings were achieved.
Actual energy savings could be below the originally assumed level due to: (a) technical reasons (e.g.
particular building materials may not generate expected benefits); (b) more beneficiaries opting for
investment measures that affect heat consumption less (e.g. all beneficiaries might opt for package B);
or (c) beneficiaries opting to increase indoor temperatures rather than to reduce their energy
consumption. If, due to technical reasons, actual energy savings achieved were only 75% of what has
been originally assumed then project returns (ERR) would drop to 18%. If savings achieved were only



- 37 -
50% of what has been assumed, project returns would drop to 10%. If more beneficiaries than
originally assumed were to decide to invest in rehabilitation measures with relatively lower payoffs,
including measures with a longer payback time, the rates of return would be reduced to 19% (package B
only). If only 75% of the originally assumed resource savings were achieved because beneficiaries
chose to use some of their investments for measures that do not generate any energy savings but only
increase their comfort, then project returns would drop, too. However, while any other such reduction
in savings would reduce the ERR to 18%, in this case this decrease would be less substantial, as raising
the comfort level would gencrate extra, additional economic benefits which are not included in this
figure. Such additional benefits from increasing homeowners' comfort level would result from the
substitution of supplemental heaters - as homeowners are able to raise indoor temperatures with heat
from the DH system and do not need the supplements any more - and from improvements in occupants'
health.
Table 5.2: Project Risks, Mitigation, and Effects on Returns
Risks                            LikelihoodtMitigation                Resulting Change in
ERR
Quantifiable Risks
Energy prices will not be adjusted to   Government's budget situation and ongoing dis-  If tariffs remain fixed at
cost recovery level as assumed, and    cussions between the Government and the Wor]d  60% cost recovery: no
therefore cash flow of investments  Bank concerning a Structural Adjustment Loan  change in ERR but FRR
not sufficiently attractive to    (SAL) indicate Govemment commnitment to raising    18%
households                         tariffs to full cost recovery.
Energy savings lower than estimated,  A project specific monitoring program will  Savings -25%: ERR 18%
either due to technuical reasonis or as    accompany implementation and generate and  Savings -50%: ERR 10%
beneficiaries opt for less effective  distribute information on the most cost effective
measures                           measures.
Costs for the rehabilitation measures   Beneficiaries will receive up-to-date advice on the    Cost +20%: ERR 20%
higher than expected               various investment options so that they can choose    Cost +50%: ERR 15%
those with the highest returns.
Market interest rates higher than  Relationship between market interest rate and level  no change in ERR; level
expected, therefore level of subsidies   of Government contribution will be reviewed semi-  of Government
to be financed out of project cost will  annually and adjusted as necessary so as to maintain  contribution will be
be higher than expected            viability of the project.                      adjusted as necessary
Non-quantifiable Risks
Organizational capabilities of     Technical assistance and support to homeowners'    n.a.*
homeowners and their associations  associations.
are overestimated 
Too few households will be able or    Government contribution that lowers cost of loans    n.a.*
willing to participate            to an effective interest rate of 15%.
Within the given legal framework,  Reduced risk of deficiencies in loan repayment by    n.a.*
homeowners' associations may not be   ensuring that: (i) households are correctly advised;
able to fulfill the role of borrowers    (ii) banks are able to assess expected en-ergy
and significant payment arrears will   savings in loan applications; and (iii) predefined
occur                              elipibility criteria for borrowers and sub-projects.
Heating subsidy will make cash flow   Not more than 10% of urban population are as-  n.a.*
of investments not sufficiently    sumed to find energy savings measures not in their
attractive to households           interest due to the heating subsidy; therefore the
heating subsidy is not likely to endanger overall
project implementation.
n a.*: not applicable



- 38 -
5. 17    An increase in costs for labor and materials does not affect the project's viability as much as
decreases in energy savings since (a) costs occur in initial periods only while savings are achieved over
the entire project life, and (b) each unit of cost generates several units of savings. A cost increase of
50% would decrease total project returns (ERR) from 26% to 15%, while the same percentage decrease
in savings would cause the ERR to drop from 26% to 10%.
C.    PARTICIPATION AND SUSTAINABILITY OF IMPACT
5.18     Project sustainability will crucially depend on various aspects of institutional reform and,
therefore, on the commitment of Government agencies and political decision makers to implement such
reforms. Commitment on the Government's side to the project is strong at present. MCUD and MOF
have been involved extensively in project preparation, demonstrating a high level of project ownership.
5.19     Project sustainability is also supported through the participatory approach taken by various
project preparation activities and by the project design. Direct beneficiaries of the project were involved
in project preparation during a 1995 test program which influenced project design, in particular as
regards affordability aspects and the need for assistance to homeowners' associations (see Annex l-B).
Continued direct participation is ensured since the homeowners, through their associations, will
themselves identify and determine the work to be undertaken in their buildings, develop the necessary
decision making processes, arrange for financing, carry out the procurement of works, and participate in
the monitoring of energy efficiency impacts. The PCU will arrange for active assistance to the
beneficiaries, monitor closely progress and impact, and launch public information programs based on
the experiences gained during this pilot project.
D.    DISTRIBUTION OF IMPACT
5.20     Individuals and groups positively affected by the project. The project will have a direct
positive impact on the living standards of those approximately 14,000 households that live in buildings
in which energy efficiency improvements are expected to be implemented. These households will enjoy
lower energy bills, a better and healthier indoor environment as well as improvements in the value of
their assets. At the same time, they will learn about issues involved in privately organized and
implemented housing maintenance, an experience that should enable them to function more effectively
as the housing market develops. In the medium term, an indeterminate number of households will
likewise benefit from being informed about the experiences of the project and will be in a better position
to avail themselves of long term funds that by then may be available from other public or private
sources. Other 'winners' will include contractors and consultants benefiting from contracts generated
through the project as well as from training provided through the technical assistance program. As
approximately 90% of Lithuanian households own their houses or apartments, largely irrespective of
income groups, no socio-economic group will be excluded from these medium-term benefits; however,
affordability may pose a constraint for the poorest households to participate.
5.21     Individuals or institutions who may be adversely affected by the project include (a) those
individuals in apartment buildings who may, over time, relocate because they cannot afford the loan
repayments determnined by a majority in their homeowners' association, or because they do not want to
pay them; and (b) the district heating companies that will lose some revenues, though to a very limited
extent. In the former case, homeowners may have to sell their apartments and move to buildings where
monthly charges are lower. In the latter case, the effect is likely to provide a positive incentive for the



- 39 -
DH companies to operate more effectively and to improve the efficiency of production and delivery of
heat.
E.    FISCAL IMPACT
5.22     Counterpart funds required from the Government for the proposed project are about US$6.5
million over the four year project implementation period. This would be a redirection of existing budget
resources for the housing sector. The annual Government contributions to the project represent less
than 0.3% of the 1996 Central Government budget.
5.23     Contriblitions from the Government and proceeds of the Bank loan for the rehabilitation of
residential housing totaling about US$13.8 million will be set up as a revolving fund. Proforma
projections indicate that the Fund would provide loans totaling about LT 128 Million or LT 68 Million
in 1995 terms, over a ten year period, after deduction of all debt service of the Bank loan and
Government contributions matching loan re-payments by final borrowers (see Annex 6).
F.    POVERTY IMPACT
5.24     The project will have no direct impact on the poor as a group, however, credits provided
through the project will be the only source of funds available to low income households for
improving the thernial efficiency of their homes. Rising energy prices affect the poor particularly
harshly and any savings are the more to their benefit. Affordability analysis shows that low
monthly repayments are achievable to most households by limiting renovation measures to the ones
with high payback, financed by medium to long term loans being shared with many other
households. In order to ensure that the project will in particular benefit homeowners in apartment
buildings, the share of the Bank loan that can be used for lending to individual homeowners (of
apartments or single family homes) will initially be restricted to 10%. To limit the risk of
unreasonable payment demands being inflicted on low income households through majority decision
by the homeowners' association in their building, various mitigation measures would be applied
(see para 4.10). In addition, homeowners' associations will be encouraged to take into account
individual households' ability to pay in allocating the proposed government loan repayment
contribution among apartment owners.
5.25     Some of the poor households among those eligible for the Governments' heating subsidy
program may be negatively affected by their homeowners' association's decision to invest in energy
efficiency rehabilitation. While these households may not benefit from any energy savings achieved
through an investment - under the heating subsidy program they do not pay any heat billing exceeding
15% of their income - they will still have to bear the cost for the investment. Quantitative and
qualitative analysis suggests, however, that only a very limited number of households may be in a
position in which modest investments in energy efficiency may inflict additional hardship (see Annex 2,
para. 9). Indeed, a test-activity undertaken as part of project preparation demonstrated that keeping an
investment small will result in loan repayments which are affordable even to the very poor (see Annex
1-B, para. 12). The project will institute a tracking mechanism and closely monitor actual impact
and experiences. Policy reform features of the project - i.e. financial assistance for specialized
stu'dies leading to specific action programs - will, among other things, encourage a reorientation of
existing housing subsidies to provide greater benefit to neediest groups.



- 40 -
G.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.26      The project is expected to have a beneficial environmental impact through conservation of
energy resources and a concomitant reduction in the byproducts of fuel combustion. Although these
environmental benefits are not expected to be large due to the limited resources available and the pilot
nature of the operation, a significant multiplier effect is to be expected in the medium term. The modi-
fications of existing buildings are not expected to require, during the implementation of the works, re-
location of residents. All investments would have to comply fully and be consistent with Government
and Bank environmental policies and conditions. The project environrental review concluded that the
Bank's and the Government's primary concern would be asbestos that may be encountered in the form
of pipe insulation in older buildings for which the following mitigation plan has been designed.
5.27      A two-step environmental risk mitigation procedure would be applied for each sub-project,
as required, to address asbestos pipe insulation encountered in rehabilitation works financed under the
project, namely (a) identification, and (b) handling and disposal. Identification of asbestos will be
effected through a process whereby the sub-borrowers' consultants will be required to certify the
absence or presence of asbestos in each sub-project. Local inspectors from the State Labor Inspectorate
would be available to support the consultants when there is doubt.'7 Handling and disposal: Where
asbestos is certified to be present, the respective contractor will be required, as per specifications in the
civil works contract with the sub-borrower, to submit a plan for handling and disposal of the asbestos."8
Existing asbestos removal procedures used by Lithuanian district heating companies (adopted in 199 1)
have been reviewed and found to be adequate to meet mitigation requirements for handling and disposal.
The contractor's plan must be approved by the sub-borrower. Guidance will be provided by the State
Labor Inspectorate or the Municipal Center for Public Health, as required. Lithuanian national norms
and Public Health and Occupational Safety and Health procedures for asbestos handling are being
developed by a Government task force, and are expected to be established by 1997.
5.28      The consulting assistance to sub-borrowers for preparation of sub-project investment
proposals, which would include identification of hazardous material and any other environmental
concems, would be funded by the project technical assistance component through bilateral grants
exceeding US$0.5 million. Potential environmental concerns will also be addressed in training
programs for these consultants (see para. 2.1 0(e)). Assurances would be sought from Government to
ensure TA quality and corresponding fallback financing, should sufficient grant financing not be
forthcoming. Potential issues identified would be addressed by the civil works contractor, and would
consequently be paid for through such contracts. The project would be coordinated with demand side
energy conservation programs of the Lithuanian Energy Agency and related activities financed by the
EU. The project has been rated as environmental screening category B (for further details, see Annex
13).
11     In case a sub-borrower would choose not to use the consulting services made available under the project, the
participating bank appraising such loan application will be required to undertake the corresponding environmental
investigation by a consultant also made available under the project.
is     A corresponding procedure would also apply should any other hazardous material or environmental concerns be
identified related to the residential rehabilitations by the sub-borrower or the consultant.



- 41 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1     The following agreements were reached during Loan negotiations
(a) During project implementation, MOF will maintain staff for the disbursement of funds and for
related coordination activities, whose qualifications, experience, and terms of referencc are
satisfactory to the Bank [para. 4.21;
(b) During project implementation, a Project Coordination Unit will be maintained x' ith functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and with staff whose qualifications, experiencc and
terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank Ipara. 4.6];
(c) Agreement was reached on the performance indicators for all project objectives and that the
Government woula: maintain policies/procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluatc. on
an ongoing basis, project implementation and the achievement of the objectives Iparas. 4 12. 4 19
and 4.231,
(d) On or before March 31, 1997, and semi-annually thereafter, Government will review and agrce
with the Bank the appropriateness of the formula for determining the onlending interest rate. and
of the level of the project-specific subsidy, with a view to ensuring its justification Ipara. 3 161:
(e) By May 1, 1997, Government will provide evidence, on the basis of previously agreed indicators.
of the provision of adequate advisory services to homeowners and their associations, in
organizational and financial matters as well as with respect to technical and engineering issues
[para. 2.9];
(f)  By September 1, 1997 (or before the date falling one year from the date of Loan effectiveness)
and annually thereafter, Government will (a) review with the Bank: (i) the overall implementation
of the project, (ii) the performance of MOF, the HCF, the PCU, the Participating Municipalitics
and the PFIs in implementing the project; (iii) the levels of repayment by Beneficiaries under sub-
loans; (iv) the adequacy of technical and financial advice to enable HOAs and individual home-
owners to evaluate the benefits of participating in the project, and (v) the appropriateness and
level of the Government contribution to loan repayments; and (b) on the basis of this revicwV
implement changes to the implementation arrangements and the Operating Procedures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of its objectives [para. 4.231.
(g) By October 1, 1997 Government will have completed a comprehensive study resulting in (X) a
specific action plan to refocus or target existing government assistance programs for the housing
sector to the neediest groups in society; such plan to be discussed and agreed with the Bank. and
(ii) recommendations for reform of the existing government energy subsidy program for
residential households [paras. 2.11, 3.15 and 3.171;
(h) By October 1, 1998 Government will have completed a study resulting in recommendations for a
strategy to promote energy efficiency rehabilitation of residential buildings [para. 2.1 11;
(i)  By October 1, 1997 the two participating municipality will each have undertaken a study of their
housing maintenance organizations with recommendations to be discussed and agreed with the
Bank including options to reorient and/or privatize the maintenance operations [para. 2 14]1
(j) By June 1, 1998 Government will undertake a comprehensive mid-term review of the project,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a report intcgrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed as described under paragraph (c) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project, and setting out



- 42 -
recommendations to ensure further efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of its
objectives. The Government will review this report with the Bank, by July 1, 1998 or a later date
acceptable to the Bank, and, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the
Bank views on the matter, refine the project design as appropriate and take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives [paras. 4.12
and 4.241.
(k) Procurement/disbursement arrangements. accounting/ reporting requirements, location of special
account, and supervision schedule were confirmed [paras. 4.22, 4.25, 4.31, 4.33, 4.37]; and
(I) On or before December 1, 1996 (or three months after the date of Loan effectiveness) and
quarterly thereafter, the HCF Board will meet to review project implementation [para. 4.7].
B.    CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2     Following the signing of the Loan Document, the requirements for effectiveness of the Loan
Document must be completed by the Borrower. in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) Signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance
and at least one commercial bank [para. 3.91;
(b) Evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that the PCU has been appropriately established within HCF
to coordinate project related activities, and that a manager, a technical assistance coordinator, an
implementation officer and an accounting officer, with qualifications, terms of reference, and
experience satisfactory to the Bank have been appointed [paras. 4.2 and 4.6];
(c) Signed Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance and
the Housing Credit Foundation [paras. 4.3 and 4.16];
(d) Evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that Operating Procedures acceptable to the Bank have been
adopted by HCF, MOF, and by each commercial bank that entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with MOF [paras. 2.6. 4.10 and 4.181.
C.    CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
6.3     The following conditions would be met:
(a) Prior to disbursement to a municipality: Signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, with each project municipality for which disbursements are to be made Iparas . 4.2 and
4.15]; and
(b) Prior to disbursement to a commercial bank: Signed Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, with each commercial bank to which disbursements are to be made [paras. 4.2 and
4.141.
D.    RECOMMENDATION
6.4     With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$ 10 million at the standard variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans with a
maturity of 20 years, including 5 years grace period. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Lithuania.



- 43 -                                Annex I
1.  SOCIAL ASSESSMEENT
1.  A social assessment was conducted to ascertain the level of demand for the project, to
determine likely impact on beneficiaries, and to understand the roles, responsibilities, strengths and
weaknesses of various project stakeholders. The social assessment consisted of two major
activities: (a) a survey of 2007 households, conducted in Vilnius, the capital city, and Kaunas, the
second largest city in Lithuania, investigating energy consumption patterns, living standards,
attitudes towards housing and maintenance, and the organizational capacities of homeowners'
associations; and (b) a test-activity launched by MCUD involving assistance to four homeowners'
associations in buildings where energy efficiency improvements were considered and planned and
where implementation was initiated, supported by qualitative interviews of households and
homeowners' association leaders and by systematic participant observation by a team of social-
scientists.
A. HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND ATTITUDE
Survey Design
1.  Field work for the survey was carried out from January to May 1995, strategically focusing on
two cities, Vilnius and Kaunas. About 607 buildings were involved; 2007 interviews were
conducted; and 94 homeowners' associations were visited. Interviews were conducted using a
questionnaire especially designed for this task. Random sampling was applied to the sample frame
of the household survey. The building-strata resulted from cross-combinations of: (i) three
construction periods (before 1957, 1958-1983, and after 1984); (ii) six types of building materials
(brick, concrete, panel, karkas, wood, and other); and (iii) seven height categories (individual
houses, 1-2 storey apartment buildings, 3-4 storey, 5-8 story, 9-11 storey, 12-15 storey, and 16
storey apartment buildings).
Housing and Privatization
2.  The large majority of the households live in apartment-buildings (85%) or in multi-family
houses (5 %). Only 5% of the households live in single-family houses, although this figure rises to
9% in Kaunas against 2% in Vilnius. Due to insufficient housing, 6% of the households surveyed
live in communal dwclliigs (or dormitories) where they share the kitchen and the bathroom with
other households.
3.  Ninety-four percent of the households surveyed reported to own their home. The incidence of
home ownership amongst pensioners is particularly high (97%). Even families living in dormitories
received privatization vouchers and now most of them own their room(s). Residential mobility has
grown as a consequence of the privatization program. While a third of the households have been
living in the same home for the last 20 years, one household out of two has been living in the same
home for the last 10 years, and one household out of four has moved home in the last five years.
Amongst pensioners, however, more than 56% have lived in their home for more than 20 years and
nearly 80% for more than 10 years.



- 44 -                                Annex 1
Energy Use and Energy Efficiency Rehabilitation
4.  About 95% of the homes are heated with a central heating system. Either the central heating
system is connected to a district heating network (92% of homes) or the building operates its own
boiler (8% of the homes). Individual boilers are mostly found in individual houses and 1-2 floor
apartment buildings. Three out of four households entirely depend on central heating and do not
use an additional heating system. Electricity is widely used for supplementary heat by the
remaining 25 %. Additional heat is almost exclusively used to cope with a deficient main heating
system, either where the level of heat is insufficient (for 48% of the households during the heating
season) or when the collective central heating system is shut down (happens to 46% of the
households during the heating season, and to 92% outside the heating season). Pensioners are
much less likely to use supplementary heat (12%), and only 8% use electrical heaters for this
purpose.
5.  Although half of the households are satisfied with the heating system and enjoy a comfortable
heat level (51 %), quite a large number of households considered their apartment cold during the
winter 1994/1995 (43%). Households connected to a central heating system are much more likely
to be dissatisfied with their heating system than households connected to piped gas (20% of the
households connected to a central heating system are very satisfied with the heating system, while
this opinion is voiced by 55.5% of households which use piped gas for heating). Approximately
one quarter of all households express strong discontent regarding their heating system.
6.  People own their apartments, but few have yet carried out major repair work to improve the
thermal resistance of either the building or their own apartment. It is common for households to
carry out temporary winter insulation work, such as window insulation with plastic film (about 75 %
of the households) or door insulation (about 50%). Balcony glazing is very popular, and one
household out of four who has a balcony has glazed it in the last five years. Major work, such as
renovation of the heating system, is unthinkable for the majority of the people due to the involved
cost.
Household Incomes and Expenditure for Energy
7.  The data support the commonly held belief that in Lithuania, as in many other Eastern
European countries, income groups are randomly scattered across apartment buildings, irrespective
of an apartment buildings' quality. Also, the data do not show any significant relationship between
a household's income and the state of the heating system in the household's building.
8.  On an annual basis, households devote on average 1 1 % of their monthly income to energy
expenditure (electricity, heating, hot water, gas, etc.); in the winter this figure raises to 15%.
Network fuels represent 90% of the energy bill. Although the energy bill increases with income,
the financial burden is not distributed with equity among households. Low income households bear
a relatively higher burden than any other income groups. Energy bills absorb at least 20% of their
monthly income and up to 26% during the winter months. Meanwhile, for the high income
households the energy bill never exceeds 22% of their income during the winter month, and drops
to a maximum of 15% on an annual basis.
9.  On average, due to their higher energy consumption, households living in individual houses
spend more to meet their energy requirements than their counterparts living in apartment buildings.



- 45 -                                 Annex I
The former pay, on average, 60% more than the latter. People living in brick houses have a
particular high energy bill. The smaller the building, in general, the higher the energy bill per sqm.
10.  Although a large majority of consumers admit that they have financial problems to pay their
energy bills (73%) only half of them agree that they would consume less if prices were higher.
More generally, they say that it will be impossible to pay more (87%). However, the statement that
'it would be impossible to pay if prices were higher' should be interpreted with caution as it is
supported also by about half of the respondents in the highest income quartile for whom the heating
bill does not regularly exceed 2% of their income. The social program aimed at providing financial
support to low-income families is perceived as inefficient by almost 90% of the households.
Indeed, nearly 60% of households in the lowest income quartile admit having financial problems
paying their energy bills, among pensioners the share of households expressing this opinion rises to
80%.
Attitudes towards and Knowledge about Energy Saving
11.  There are mixed opinions about energy savings actions. Fifty-five percent of the households
do not agree that 'energy saving is a waste of time' (the rest agrees or has no opinion). Most
people think that they would reduce their energy bill if they could save energy. On the other hand,
80% of al; surveyed households estimate that their energy consumption has already reached a
minimal level, and that a reduction in the level of consumption would inflict a hardship on their
families. Interestingly enough, the attitude that reducing the energy consumption would be a
hardship is most widespread amongst households who are content with their heating systems (a
result which suggests that answers provided to the question whether saving energy would be a
hardship should be interpreted with caution). Also, households who admit having 'financial
problems paying their heating bills' are more likely than other households to state their wish for a
home heat meter (on average this is stated by half the respondents). This appears to imply that as
households feel the burden of their energy bill they would try to save energy, in order to save on
their bill; nonetheless they may not find themselves in a comfortable situation as a result (since they
consider themselves already having reached a minimal level). Pensioners, on the other hand, are
the group least likely to express a wish for a home heat meter even though the share of respondents
amongst pensioners who expressed wanting to have one is still close to 50%.
12.  About half of the respondents did not know how to save energy or where they could get
advice on energy saving issues. However, not knowing how to go about it does not appear to
imply a negative attitude towards energy savings in general. Setting up an information center or a
building demonstration project was seen as somewhat useful (14% and 15%), although people think
that television is the best medium for conveying information about insulation issues (48%). In
general, richer households tend to be better informed about how to save energy (67% in the lowest
quartile said they did not know how to save energy, while this was stated by only 45 % in highest
quartile).
13.  Most households do engage in some kinds of energy saving behavior. They turn off the
lights in unoccupied rooms (about 90% of the households) and perceive that insulating their homes
will reduce their energy bills (about 60%). Nevertheless, there is a general feeling of
powerlessness as higher energy prices are perceived as a "bad fate".
14.  People both believe that insulation would reduce their heating bill and would like to insulate
their homes (about 75 % of surveyed households agreed with both statements). Indeed, more than



- 46 -                                Annex 1
40% of the respondents had indeed spent more than 15 LT over the last year on insulating their
home, e.g. through windowstripping, glazing, etc. Households appear to invest less in insulation if
they are convinced that there is no way they can regulate the heat level in their apartment or
building. The interest in insulating one's home is most prevalent amongst those who either own
their apartments/houses or belong to co-operatives even though the interest is also very strong
amongst households living on premises that belong to the municipality or a private landlord (about
65%).
15.  Insulating one's home appears to be less interesting, however, for households occupying
large apartments or houses, nonetheless occupants of larger flats and houses appear better informed
about energy savings possibilities. Consequently, there does not seem to be a relationship between
whether a household is well informed about insulation and whether it would like to insulate its
home. It should be noted that the interest in insulating one's home only varies slightly amongst
income groups in general (72% in lower income groups and 78% in higher income groups).
However, 'having problems paying one's bill' is a statement that appears strongly related to the
wish to insulate one's home.
Attitudes towards Homeowners' Associations
16.  More than half of all households strongly believe that a homeowners' association would be
useful, a statement with which only 7% 'strongly disagree'. Attitudes towards the importance of
homeowners' associations appear to be only slightly influenced by the level of education and by
income. While 54% of household heads that are university level graduates agreed that 'an
association would be useful', this opinion was only shared by 49% of household heads with only
elementary school education and by 37% of household heads with uncompleted secondary
education. Gender or age appear not to influence attitudes towards associations.
17.  Homeowners' associations were reported to exist in the buildings of 12% of the surveyed
households. The incidence of associations is highest amongst households living in apartments
owned by a private landlord and amongst households owning their homes (less so in municipal
owned houses). In nearly all cases where a homeowners' association exists, housing maintenance is
also organized by the association. Homeowners in buildings with an association appear to be better
informed than on average about energy savings and have more positive attitudes towards energy
savings activities.
B. RESULTS OF A TEST ACTIVITY
Motivation for the Test Activity
1.  MCUD launched a test activity during project preparation in order to understand the needs and
capabilities of homeowners associations, particularly within the context of improving energy efficiency
in their buildings. The purpose of the activity was to learn about homeowners associations by enabling
selected associations to undertake more substantive energy efficiency improvements. MCUD staff,
working with local and international consultants, helped four associations go through a process through
which they would borrow money from banks to implement energy efficiency measures. MCUD staff
and technical consultants provided direct assistance to the associations through the many steps in the
process, including: (i) inviting the associations to take the loan; (ii) obtaining a mandate from
association members, (iii) gathering technical and procedural information; (iv) preparing a proposal that



- 47 -                                  Annex I
identified options and their respective costs and benefits; (v) choosing a course of action and inviting
bids from contractors; (vi) selecting a bid; (vii) negotiating with contractors; (viii) negotiating with
commercial banks; and (ix) overseeing the construction and installation. Meanwhile, social scientists
and field assistants closely observed the process, complemented by two phases of qualitative
interviews. The objective of the observation was to learn about the internal dynamics of the
associations, their strengths and weaknesses, their needs and experiences, and their interactions with
outside organizations.
2.  The four associations were selected to participate in the test on the basis of their demonstrated
interest in energy cfficiency improvements and their organizational strength, thus they represent
"champion" associations. The multi-faceted support and observation yielded valuable information
regarding the capabilities and needs of these four homeowners associations, as well as more general
lessons that informed the design of the project.
Methodology
3.  Four principal interaction and observation methods were used in the test activity: official
consultation; expert advice and assistance; respondent interviews; and participant observation. The
four approaches complemented each other and, to some degree, also produced synergy amongst
each other. In particular, the participant observation activity was the one that most effectively
captured dynamics, assessed impact and identified gaps and needs.
4.  Official Consultation. The MCUD officially implemented the test activity. Both formally and
informally, officials of the MCUD maintained contacts with leaders of the four homeowners'
associations throughout the test activity, from the earliest inquiries regarding the level of interest in
participating in the activity through the later stage of negotiating loans through the participating
banks. Official contacts ranged from the Deputy Minister level to working technical levels, all of
whom were actively interested in the activity and conmmitted to moving it forward. MCUD officials
set participation rules and patterns, provided information regarding rights and procedures, and
played an advocacy role in their offices. Their active involvement revealed the extent to which
procedures and parameters were evolving during the activity itself, thus complicating the
consultation role. The involvement of MCUD staff also strengthened its awareness of the paucity
of information available and the key role of MCUD in information flows.
5.  Expert Advice and Assistance. External consultants worked in three stages on the test
activity. During the first stage, energy efficiency measurements and tests were conducted in
buildings of participating homeowners' associations and others. These were designed to provide
baseline data from which to assess the impact of improvement measures. At a second stage,
consultants devised energy efficiency and conservation measures (including cost and cost-savings
data) for specific buildings, including the four participating associations, discussed the
recommendations with associations and participated in discussions that lead to individual association
decisions regarding how to proceed; and prepared bidding documents to enable the associations to
tender for the works. In a third stage, consultants developed operational procedures for project
implementation, based on observations of various association meetings, and discussions with
officials and other stakeholders. The consultants infused the test activity with technical
information, provided insights into ways to prepare the information for homeowners, homeowners'
associations and officials, and ways to use the information.



- 48 -                                 Annex I
6.  Respondent Interviews. Two types of interviews were conducted in order to understand the
nature of the involvement of homeowners' association in each building, to ascertain the socio-
economic status of homeowners in the test buildings, and explore the attitudes toward a number of
issues that related to the project. First, a socio-economic survey was administered to a random
sample of 8-10 households in each building in a multi-step process. The first phase, undertaken at
the first stage of contact, focused on perceptions and information about the homeowners'
association, energy-saving, housing, pilot activities, banks, borrowing, and interest rates. The
second stage was a qualitative follow-up interview both to elaborate responses to the first stage and
to identify any changes in attitude regarding such things as the performance of the association, the
flow of information, and attitudes toward energy-saving, banks and other issues. In addition,
homeowners' association leaders were interviewed to learn more about the specific activities of the
associations, participation patterns of homeowners, institutional issues regarding the association and
the proposed project, and to obtain inputs regarding the needs of the association that might be met
through the project.
7.  Participant Observation. A local consultant followed every step of the test activity as a
participant observer. She attended board and general assembly meetings of the homeowners
associations, and meetings between the association and outside groups, particularly technical
consultants, banks and contractors, keeping notes and reporting on both the content and dynamics
of the meetings. Where possible, the consultant also arranged meetings to promote communication
and facilitate the acquisition and dissemination of information. Consistent with the role of
participant observer, the consultant became a ubiquitous attendee, acting primarily as catalyst and
institutional memory, but also taking an active advocacy role when appropriate. In addition to the
meetings, she conducted the qualitative household interviews and continually updated the
association leader data, recording changes in attitude and behavior, as well as perceived changes in
status.
Associations and Steps Observed
8.  Four associations participated in the test activity, each of which is unique, presenting special
challenges and special opportunities to learn about the diversity of homeowners' associations. A
brief comparison of the four associations is shown in Table 1, below.
Table 1: Participating Associations
Street Address  Location         No. of Units    Income/Mo       Leadership       Formation
(LT)
Baltupio        Vilnius, 4-5km.      600           350-550      Directive          1978-79
Zemynos         Vilnius, 7-8km        24           550-850      Dir/polarized        1987
G. Vilko        Vilnius, 3km          64          350-2,000    Participatory         1958
S.Zakausko      Kaunas,2-3km         81           850-1,350    Participatory         1979
9.  Only two of the four pilot associations finally took a loan and modernized the heating
equipment in its house. The other two were upheld in their internal decision making, as well as in
their decision making about whether or not to eventually take a loan, by general communication
problems and by overall fear and hesitation towards committing themselves to the burden of a loan.
Fear and hesitation, however, do not appear to have been related to the income situation of the
association members. Indeed, the members of the associations which eventually took a loan had, on
average, lower incomes than the members in the other associations. However, leadership and



- 49 -                                 Annex I
communication were rated highest in these association and appear to have contributed decisively to
its success in obtaining a loan and undertaking energy efficiency rehabilitations (see also para. 12
below).
10.  The associations differ in a number of dimensions, but the most critical dimensions related to
the project appear to be the following:
* prior experience: former cooperatives converted to homeowners' associations already have an
organizational advantage;
* leadership: some leaders take a directive stance, others actively engage members in decision-
making; the latter are most effective in introducing new ideas, such as preparing members to
take credit for common investments;
* resources: families with higher incomes are better prepared to invest in the buildings, as the
relative impact on family income will be smaller than it would be for poorer families; yet
resources are not the most decisive influence on whether or not an association eventually takes a
loan;
*  information: people are hungry for information; those that feel they have access, via their leaders or
otherwise, are more predisposed to participate in the program.
Lessons from the Test Activity
11. The most important result of the test activity is an understanding of the tremendous transaction
costs to homeowners associations of their attempts to improve energy efficiency under current
conditions. Even with the direct intervention of high Government officials in the concemed sector, the
activity consumed a significant amount of time, much of which must be eliminated if a demand driven
program is extended nationwide. Under existing arrangements, very few homeowners' association
leaders would have the time or the energy required to participate in such a program without assistance,
given their need both to get and evaluate information and to satisfy the questions and allay the fears of
their members. In addition, six other important lessons emerged from the test activity that must be
taken into account during project implementation:
(a)    homeowners' associations vary greatly in the strength, function, experience, and openness of
their members and leaders, for the most part, they need basic capacity building inputs;
(b)    homeowners have considerable interest in improving energy efficiency, but they know little
about technical options, costs, credit and credit conditions;
(c)    despite the huge need, homeowners' associations have little access to information about
renovation and miaintenance;
(d)    many homeowners are anxious about indebtedness and credit; although some of the anxiety may
be dispelled by access to good information, positive experiences will also be necessary;
(e)    while the concept of interest rates in general appears well understood, there is consensus that
interest rates of 15%, in a Government program, were 'outrageously high' yet just about the
maximum affordable.
(f)    individual homeowners and homeowners' associations are dependent on authorities and
contractors for information, yet mistrustful of them. Thus there is considerable demand for
independent advice.
12. Another important lesson from the test activity is that even very poor households are able to
afford borrowing for energy efficiency improvements if the size of the investments is kept moderate.



- 50 -                                 Annex 1
One of the pilot associations demonstrated this by, in the course of the test-activity, taking a loan
amounting to approximately USD 100 per apartment owner. The association could cover the payments
for the loan through a 0.25 LT/sqm fee that had formerly been charged by the municipal maintenance
company - before the association decided to cancel the contract with the company as the maintenance
activities perfonred had been minimal. Therefore, without actually 'feeling' that they are paying extra
for the re-payment of the loan, individual homeowners yet benefit from the improvement in the house. It
should be noted that about half of the households of this particular association are eligible for the
heating subsidy described in Annex 2 (see also Annex 4 for more information on affordability).
Project Implications
13.  From the lessons learned from the test activities, four important implications emerged that will be
taken into account during project implementation:
(a)    It is essential to produce and disseminate clear, simple and complete information to
homeowners' associations and homeowners regarding technical options for energy savings
available to them and procedures for obtaining both advice and credit;
(b)    To gain the confidence of homeowners, and thus to accelerate the process of improving energy
efficiency' in housing, the operation of the program must be simple, transparent and fair,
providing open access to information and resources without favoritism, bureaucratic hindrances
or exaggerated expectations"
(c)    Homeowners' associations should be encouraged to help each other learn from their experiences
and articulate their needs by creating an association of homeowners associations.
14.  Through advisory centers or other mechanisms, such as an association of associations,
homeowners and homeowners' associations could be provided with independent information and advice,
as well as training in both technical and management areas. This can serve to empower them both
individually and collectively to manage their affairs and protect their interests. If successful, the centers
could be expected to be self-sustaining over time. Meanwhile, the example of homeowners' associations
that participate in the program will serve as a stimulus to homeowners in other buildings to establish
associations and will encourage officials and others to promote the further development of homeowners'
associations as active elements in a strong civil society.



- 51 -                                Annex 2
2. EFFECTS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE HEATING SUBSIDY
A.    DESIGN OF THE HEATING SUBSIDY
1.  The Lithuanian Government established, in 1994, an indirect subsidy program to reduce the
burden of heat and hot water costs on needy households (the latest Decree regulating the subsidy is
Decree No. 998 of 7/20/95). Heat billings that exceed 15% of household income (and hot water
billings that exceed 5 % of household income) can be deducted from the bill and not paid, for which
the district heating companies may claim reimbursement from the municipality.' Eligibility for and
size of the subsidy are established according to income, socio-economic classifications, heating
system, household size and the size of the apartment/living space:
(a)    Household income. The household income is assessed by the municipal social care
centers, on the basis of income information on all household members provided by the
applicant. Municipalities have no means of assessing the correctness of the information
provided. In theory, they could undertake spot-checks of applicants, yet limited
personnel does not allow for such assessments.
(b)    Eligible groups. The subsidy program specifies a detailed list of "low income families"
that are eligible for an exemption from paying more than 15% of their income towards
their heating bill. These comprise families in which spouse(s) are: (i) are regularly
employed, (ii) unemployed due to pursuing education, not finding a job (being registered
as unemployed), due to medical conditions or disability, or due to medical conditions or
disability of a family member who needs to be nursed, (iii) pensioners, old or disabled,
(iv) employed or unemployed, and the other one is unemployed due to pregnancy,
maternity leave (up to three years for only child, up to 8 years, if there are three
children undcr 16, or when there is no day care center or when the child's health
requires nursing), or a combination of maternity leave with farming of more than 2
hectares of land.
(c)    Size of living space and size of household. The size of the living space which to heat
may be subsidized depends upon household size and specific socioeconomic
characteristics. Normally, billings for heating 20 sqm per household member are
eligible for the subsidy, whenever a household member is disabled or a pensioner the
number of sqm rises to 30 sqm for this household member. Single inhabitants of
apartments are eligible for a subsidy for heating 36 sqm per person. In addition, 15 sqm
may be added respectively for heating kitchen/bathroom/etc.
(d)    Heating systems. Only households who live in dwellings connected to the DH system
and/or local boilers operating on metered natural gas are eligible for the heating subsidy.
B.    OPERATION OF SUBSIDY
2.  The number of eligible households has increased greatly between the heating seasons of
1994/1995 and 1995/1996. According to a representative household survey conducted during spring
1995 about 8% of urban households benefit from this program. For the heating season 1995/1996,
1     The cost of hot water is subsidized under the same decree, according to similar procedures. If the bill for hot
water exceeds 5% of a household's income then the billing above this threshold does not have to be paid by the
household.



- 52 -                                 Annex 2
no official data on the number of households eligible is available as of yet. Information collected
from the Vilnius DH company and the Vilnius municipality appears to imply that, during
October/November/December 1995 more than 1/3 of all households in Vilnius were eligible for the
subsidy and received, effectively, on average 23 LT/month as a subsidy to their heating bill.
3.  The increase in the number of eligible households may be attributed to a combination of the
following three factors: (a) prices of residential heat were increased, in summer 1995, from LT
1. 12/sqm to LT 2.40/sqm in nominal terms, (b) outside temperatures in November/December 1995
were relatively low in comparison to the previous year, and therefore heating bills were higher, (c)
there is anecdotal evidence that the extent to which firms tend to underdeclare wages paid to their
employees has increased over the last year. This assertion is supported by the Vilnius
municipality's observation, that between 60% - 70% of all eligible applicants for the heating
subsidy were employed by the private sector, nonetheless wages in the private sector tend to be
higher than Government wages.
4.  While the heating subsidy has certain advantages - it ensures the use of the implicit income
transfer for the purpose it has been assigned and the transaction costs involved in its administration
are minimal - there are several serious flaws in its design and operation: (a) it appears to benefit a
population group much larger than the actual poor as municipalities have no means to control the
correctness of income statements on which eligibility depends, (b) it excludes most of the rural
population - where poverty indices are higher - as it only applies to dwellings connected to the DH
system or to local boilers that operate with metered natural gas, (c) it is suspected that the district
heating companies may in many cases simply have to absorb the cost of the subsidy themselves, and
(d) as it operates on a percentage basis it removes the incentive for eligible households to save
energy.
C.    ELIGIBILITY ACCORDING TO DWEELING SIZE
5.  The amount by which a household's heating bill is subsidized is limited by the size of its
dwelling (see above). This restriction is reasonable given the assumption that poor households live
in smaller apartments and also considering budgetary restrictions for the financing of the subsidy.
Indeed, the survey undertaken in spring 1995 indicates that there is a positive relationship between
household income and living area in sqm. Poor households live on less space: The income group
of < 240 LT had a living space of 28 sqm (total area: 43 sqm), while those in the 900 LT or above
income group had a living space of 46 sqm (68 sqm).
6.  However, as eligibility is calculated according to household member per sqm of dwelling, the
less members a poor household has the higher the likelihood that it does not fully benefit from the
subsidy. The survey referred to above indicates indeed that 48.2% of the lowest income households
(< 240 LT) belong to the group of households with the largest living area per household member
(more than 26.7 sqm/person), nonetheless in this group there is relatively little space for the whole
household. Apparently, poor households have a tendency to live on large space per person. This is
in line with information available from real estate agents in Lithuania that 1-2 room apartments are
bought and sold at considerably higher sqm.-prices than 3-4 room apartments. It appears likely that
large apartments tend to be owned by pensioners; under the soviet system this group, then still part
of a larger famnily, had access to large apartments. Given the low mobility in housing, pensioners
have remained in their premises even if most other family members have moved out (see also
Annex 1 on attitudes towards housing and energy efficiency).



- 53 -                                   Annex 2
7.  The data available suggest therefore that at least half of all poor households do have to pay
more than 15% of their income for heating. Any amount paid for heating by a household exceeding
the 15% benchrrark therefore is paid for heating the part of a dwelling that is not eligible for the
subsidy. It is this other 'rest' that may constitute an incentive to invest in energy savings,
irrespective of the existing subsidy, and that may compensate also the poor household for its
investment by providing scope for savings.
D.     RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE HEATING SUBSIDY AND THE PROPOSED PROJECT
8.  The success of the proposed project is affected by the current heating subsidy in two ways:
(a)    Households who fully benefit from the subsidy have little incentive to invest in energy
efficiency savings, given that whatever they spend on energy above 15% of their income
is paid for by the municipality. However, the subsidy's effect on the motivation for
saving energy will depend on (i) the degree by which a households' bill is subsidized (if
a household spends 15.5% or 16% of its income on heating, chances to reduce the bill
down to 14% and thereby to actually save on the bill are much higher in comparison to a
household who spends 30% of its income on heating2; the same rationale applies to
households who only partially benefit from the subsidy as their dwelling space is too
large, as described under section C); and (b) the household's expectations with respect to
its future income and the future of the heating subsidy (if a household expects that its
income will increase over time then it can assume to loose its eligibility; if a household
expects the Government to abolish the heating subsidy, or to raise the threshold, then
investing in energy efficiency rehabilitation would be reasonable irrespecitve of its
current eligibility for the subsidy).
(b)    There is a real possibility that poor households are adversely affected by a decision of
their building's homeowners' association to invest in energy savings. Poor households
who are eligible for the heating subsidy may not - if their actual bill substantially
exceeds 15 % of their income - benefit from the energy savings derived from the
investment at all, yet they will have to contribute nonetheless to the repayment of a loan
taken to finance the investment.
9.  The data available only allows rough estimates of the size of the population that may belong to
the group described under 8(b). As noted above, evidence from the city of Vilnius suggests that,
during the heating season 1995/1996 the number of households eligible for the subsidy amounted to
more than 1/3. However, not all those eligible for the heating subsidy appear to belong to the
poorest households of society. The municipal social care center estimates that about 60% - 70% of
these households had household members employed by private firms. The widespread anecdotal
evidence on wage-certification fraud (firms declare low wages in order to circumvent having to pay
wage taxes) suggests that the percentage of real poor among these 33 % (of the population eligible
for the subsidy) is likely to be as low as 30%. Therefore, about 10% of all households may find
themselves in a situation where there are energy efficiency rehabilitation investments undertaken in
their buildings from which they do not benefit immediately, and which they will find difficult to
finance given their limited resources. As income groups are scattered across buildings, these
2      There is no data available about the distribution of expenditure for heating - above the threshold of 15% - but
the survey data available suggests that the degree by which the threshold is exceeded cannot be too large.



- 54 -                               Annex 2
households may easily find themselves representing only a minority in a homeowners' association
that discusses investing in energy efficiency rehabilitation. In order to protect poor households
from situations in which unreasonably high loan repayments are imposed onto them under the
project, investment size will be linked to unanimity of decision among homeowners within any
given association (see also Annex 4 on affordability).



- 55 -                                Annex 3
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
A. PROJECT COMPONENTS, EXPECTED SAVINGS AND COST
1.  The project will be directed towards thermal energy saving improvements for residential and
selected school buildings. The thermal inefficiencies found in these buildings follow typical patterns
for most of the structures built under former Soviet design norms.
2.  Residential energy saving improvements will be undertaken by homeowners' associations
(HOA) on behalf of members, and are expected to occur primarily in multi-family residential
structures. Some loans may also be provided for single-family houses. Credits for school
improvements will be channeled through municipal authorities to agencies responsible for the
management and maintenance of school buildings.
Eligible measures
3.  Project support for selected buildings will be limited to the implementation of physical
improvements that reduce the buildings' consumption of energy for space heating at a given comfort
level and for the production and distribution of domestic hot water. However, in cases where
serious structural problems exist, urgent repairs that do not have primarily energy-saving purposes
can be justified where necessary to protect the structural integrity of the building and thereby the
thermal efficiency investments, such as roof reconstruction and joint/crack repairs.
4.  Typical inefficiencies that are eligible for corrective measures include low thermal resistance
values for the building envelope assemblies (e.g. walls, roofs and windows), excessive cold weather
ventilation volumes, absence of building-level temperature and balancing controls, and general
deterioration of mechanical and building assemblies, such as windows and pipes. In addition to the
above-mentioned weaknesses, the absence of controls for heat and hot water consumption at the
consumer interface, as well as the absence of metering, contributes significantly to waste as there is
no incentive to conserve. Measures that permit user control have the potential of affecting
consumer behavior and will be eligible.
5.  Since the correction of all the faults of a building would not be financially feasible under
current circumstances, priorities will have to be determined in each case. For schools, the choice of
measures will be made by local officials according to municipal technical and budgetary
requirements. For residential structures, priorities will be determined by building owners according
to the particular social, economic and physical circumstances of each building. Engineering
evaluation listing potential improvements fitting each structure's technical requirements and
providing economic estimates will be carried out by consultants for the owners. Thus each building
will have an investment package tailored to its particular needs, with measures selected from a list
of technically evaluated measures.
Project Preparation Studies
6.  During project preparation, the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development (MCUD)
obtained grants to undertake technical investigations of the physical status of a number of apartment
buildings, hospitals and schools and analyze options for improvement. Two consulting firms were
assigned to evaluate a total of 14 apartment buildings, one school and one hospital. Technical
analysis comprised evaluation of the state of the building envelope (roof, external walls, basement,



- 56-                                  Annex 3
and general structural and interior condition) and the heating system within the building (incoming
District Heating pipes and domestic hot water pipes, building substation, distribution of heating
water, radiators, temperature control, etc.). Options for investments in the building envelope and
heating system for each building to improve energy efficiency were proposed and described - where
possible after discussions with the HOA, and evaluated on the basis of concrete estimates of the
local cost of materials and equipment. Energy-saving measures were assembled in efficient
packages suited to the building needs, with possible alternatives that can be added to or deducted
from the base package.
Expected Energy Savings
7.  Potential energy savings were calculated for the case study buildings. In some cases, where
teniperatures have in recent years been low due to reduced output from the DH systems, potential
energy savings were calculated for both the "normal" (18 C) and the low (about 13 C) final room
temiiperatures. Data from the preparation studies indicate reductions of energy consumption of
about 20(% for basic packages, 30-40% for medium-size packages and as high as 50% in some cases
where all possible measures are taken. Actual savings will depend on the scope of measures selected
by the owners. Minimum interventions indicate savings of about 25%. Payback times for the
energy savings part of the investments range from as low as two years, to as much as 25 years for
measures assemb'ed together in a single package.
Expected Investment Packages
8.  It is expected that priority decisions will be made by the owners according to perceived
immediate economic and environmental (comfort) impacts. The ranking of measures by payback
period is generally uncomplicated so the investment packages that will be chosen are fairly
predictable. For example, since immediate savings and comfort can be obtained at relatively low
cost by reducing air infi:tration through windows and doors, and since virtually all buildings suffer
from such weaknesses, it is expected that window and door refurbishing and weather-stripping will
be a basic measure chosen by nearly all borrowers.
9.  Other basic measures will include substation improvements such as building temperature
control with motorized flow control valves, heat system balancing and heat exchangers for the space
heating and domestic hot water systems, as well as basement and attic pipe insulation. Building-
level heat meters will be a prerequisite for participation in the program. If a heat meter is not
already installed in a proposed building, the owner will be obliged to include one in any basic
investment package. Building temperature controllers will be necessary in order to derive heat bill
savings from building envelope improvements. Such controllers affect the flow of water in the DH
sv stem. and in large quantities (more than 20% - 30% of buildings connected to each system) would
disrupt overall system performance. However, the scope of the project is too limited for this
proportion to be reached. In addtion, DH companies have the right to review sub-station
improvements through the existing permit process.
10.  Because of their higher cost per unit of energy saved and consequent longer payback
periods. less common investments are expected to include major building envelope improvements -
e.g. roof and wall insulation - and new windows. However, since many buildings have badly
deteriorated roofs that would qualify for urgent repairs under the project, new roof assemblies that
fix immediate problems (such as leaking), ensure a long period of low maintenance costs, and at the
same time provide superior insulation are expected to be part of loan packages where affordable.



- 57 -                                 Annex 3
'i. New sloped roof structures built over existing flat roofs are considered desirable to avoid the
long-term maintenance problems associated with flat roofs. Such assemblies would be considered
fully justified by energy-saving. The cost of such assemblies may be similar to a flat roof of equally
low maintenance needs and long life expectancy. Some HOAs may choose to invest in a new
sloped roof, and some may wish to solve a roof problem in the short term by choosing shorter-lived
low-specification flat roof repairs. In either case, insulation should be installed during the repair
process. A few HOAs are interested in building new sloped roofs raised to include additional
apartments on the old roof level. It is argued that the sale of such apartments could help cover the
cost of other improvements in the building. In the event that an HOA chooses this option, the loan
would cover the cost of a new sloped roof structure with insulation, but not the incremental cost of
raising this structure and enclosing/finishing the apartment space.
12.  Table 1 below gives a general description and total energy use data for two buildings
evaluated in the case studies, chosen because they are representative. The buildings, measures and
categories are the same as those used to calculate project economic analysis and affordability. (See
Annex 12, Economic Analysis, for a discussion of economic rationale pertaining to these measures.)
The following tables list the measures typically expected to be implemented by homeowners,
packaged into three prioritized categories, with costs and estimated financial pay-back times for
typical large and small buildings. Tables 2 and 3 provide cost and energy savings data from the
studies for the two representative buildings.
Table 1: Description of representative buildings
Case     Constr'n    Number   Heated        Energy Need *                 Estimated Energy
type        of       area in                                        Savings
floors apts    m2      kWh/yr  kWb/m2/y  Package   kWh/yr          %
Large     Lg panel     5    100   4,960    1,252,085      252        A      281,307      22
B      430,707     34
C      559,477     45
Small     Brick        5    32    2,882    457,600        159        A       78,990      17
B      199,467     44
C      191,688     42
* Need at entrance piping from DH system; calculated, based on 80% efficiency of building system and calculated demand
at apartment.



- 58 -                                              Annex 3
Table 2: Typical Large Building (100 Apartments)
Investment                     total cost  cost/apart        energy saved         energy saved LT/year  savings per     payback, years
month per
apartment
LT         LT      % of consump.    kWh/y       financial  economic      LT        financial    econom
Heat Meter               Al       5000        50             0              0             0          0           0           na
Temperature Control      A2      11500       115           12.0       150250          10743      14274           9         1.07        0
Heat System Balancing    A3       7920        79            2.0        25042           1791       2379            1        4.42        3
Pipe Insulation          A4       9900        99            6.5        81546           5831       7747           5         1.70        1
Stair Case Improvement    A5      6780        68            3.8        47994           3432       4559           3         1.98        1
Window Improvement       BI    66080         661           9.9        123475           8828      11730           7         7.48        5
Basement Insulation      B2      49595       496            6.1        76790           5490       7295           5         9.03        6
Window Change            Cl   367594        3676          20.5        256852          18365     24401           15        20.02       15
Roof Insulation          C2    143840       1438           4.4         54801           3918       5206           3        36.71       27
Packages No.:            A      41100        411          22.5        281307          20113      26724          17         2.04        1
B     156775      1568           34.4        430707         30796      40917           26        5.09        3
C     602129      6021           44.7        559477         40003      53150           33       15.05        II
A= Heat Meter + Temperature Control + Heat System Balancing + Stair Case Improvement + Pipe Insulation;
B =A + Basement Insulation + Window Improvement;
C= A+ Basement Insulation + Roof Insulation + Window Change
Table 3: Typical Small Building  (32 Apartments)
Investment                     total cost  cost/apart        energy saved         energy saved LT/year  savings per      payback, years
month per
apartment
LT         LT      % of consump.    kWh/y       financial  economic       LT        financial   econo
Heat Meter               Al         5000         156        0.0000             0          0          0            0           na
Temperature Control, incl. A2      12036         376        0.1000         45760       3272       4347            9         3.68       2
Circulating Pump
Heat System Balancing    A3        13098        409         0.0107          4899        350        465            1        37.39      28
HeatExchanger            A4         3540         III        0.0200          9152        654        869            2         5.41       4
New Doors                BI        14954        467         0.0707         32370       2314      3075             6         6.46       4
Window Improvement       B2       44840         1401        0.2663        121862       8713      11577           23         5.15       3
Prefabricated Substation    Cl    24122         754         0.0994         45505       3254      4323             8         7.41       5
Thermost. Radiator Valves C2      25403          794        0.0282         12893        922       1225            2        27.56      20
Roof Renovation          C3       57159         1786        0.0156          7136        510       678             1       112.03      84
Packages No.:            A        33674         1052        0.1726         78990       5648       7504           15         5.96       4
B        93468        2921        0.4359         199467     14262      18949           37         6.55       4
C       179576        5612        0.4189         191688     13706      18210           36         13.10      9
A= Heat Metei + Temperature Control + Heat System Balancing + Heat Exchanger;
B= A+ New Doors + Window Improvement;
C= Prefabricated Substation + Heat System Balancing + New Doors + Window Improvement + Thermostatic Radiator
Valves + Roof Renovation



- 59 -                                                            Annex 3
Table 4: Description of Measures
Heat Meter                                                   Building level heat meter consisting of  a flow  meter, two
.............................................................................................. .................................temperature meters and a display  un.i.t
Temperature Control                                         Building level temperature sensors and motorized valves, can be
combined with a circulatin'            pm
..............................................................................................    .................................................... ...................................................................
H eat System  Balancing                                     Riser valves and  balan
U                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ing
Staircase Improvement                                       Tightening of staircase windows; replacing exterior doors, and
.................................................................................................................................adding door closers 
Heat Exchanger                                              Replaces direct connection of building to district heating system  with
indirect connection
....................................................................  .........................  ............................................................................... ..........................  .................... .........
Pipe   nsu!ation                                             Insulation of exposed heat system .piping  in basement and attic spaces
Window Improvement                                          Refurbishing of existing windows, including weather-stripping,
refitting, caulking painting and hardware where required
..... .........................................................................................     ................. . ........?!p   . n. q i e
Basement Insulation                                          Insulation of under side of first floor slab
.............................................................................................. ....................... ........................................ ..................................................................................... .......................Ne D o rN w d o s f om a rt n s to t ic seew x e i r d o s
New  Doors                                                  New  doors from  apartments to staircase, new  exterior doors
Window Change                                                All new windows, local manufacture
Roof Insulation                                              New  rigid  insulation (mineral wool or polystyrol) with imported
.u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~rfacmg.........................
.. .   . . . . . . . . . . . . ...............................................................   ............  .................    ..    ...............    ..................    .....in .
Prefabricated Substation                                    Combines heat meter, automatic control, heat exchanger
Thermostatic Radiator Valves                                 Heat. supply can bejsted to heat demand in each room
.......... ....................................................................................    ............ ....   ..    ......   ....................................................................................................
Exterior Insulation*, Gable ends only                        Externally applied  insulation with weathering surface, on windowless
.....e.......................................................................................... .a..l......................... . . s  , 
Exterior Insulation*, Entire Building                        Externally applied insulation with weathering surface, on end walls
and walls with windows
*While these measures are effective for energy conservation and for reducing maintenance costs in older large-panel
buildings, they are costly, and have long payback times. They are therefore expected to be chosen on a limited scale by
homeowners under this project, and so have not been included in project financial and affordability analyses that are
intended to be representative for the overall project.
Costs
13.   Costs vary significantly depending on size, design, and condition of building. Based on the
case studies, preliminary cost estimates for the expected packages range from about Litas 350 per
apartment unit for basic measures (in large buildings), to Litas 10,500 (in small buildings) for
complete packages covering all evaluated energy improvement interventions. In some cases with
low initial cost and rapid payback time, the incremental cost per month to amortize the loan is
estimated to be covered by the cash energy savings. However, assumed "before and after" room
temperatures, heat consumption measurement and tariff calculation, and consumer behavior all
influence the calculation of such estimates.
Implementation
14.   The implementation of technical activities will ensure full participation of beneficiaries and
follow transparent and competitive procurement procedures.
15.   Design. Physical design/engineering will be done in two stages: evaluation of the building
and its needs, along with schematic design, will be accomplished by local consultants under close
supervision of foreign consultants with expertise in energy-saving analysis and design, provided



- 60 -                                       Annex 3
through Technical Assistance. Preliminary and final design will be developed by the local
consultant with foreign consultant guidance as needed.
16.   Construction. The construction industry has excess capacity, is adapting to market forces
and virtually all construction enterprises are operating without State support. Project construction
will be undertaken by local firms of varying sizes in order to expand the participation of small
enterprises, as well as to provide the mix of skills necessary for the range of work required to
implement the project. It is expected that there will be good opportunities for small new firms able
to implement measures that are labor-intensive and that require a certain degree of skill such as
refurbishing of windows.
17.   Supervision and commissioning. Supervision of construction for design intent will be carried
out by the HOA's consultant. Governmental construction permit procedures will ensure that
building and public safety regulations are observed. In addition, it is expected that the participating
commercial lending institutions will use their own inspection procedures for certification of
payments from the loan. In addition, the Procect Coordination Unit (PCU) may assist in inspecting
installations for integrity of energy conservation performance.
B. CAPACITIES OF THE LITHUANIAN CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
1.   Constructionfirms. Prior to independence, the construction industry in Lithuania included
nearly 300 construction and assembly firms that employed up to 12 percent of the nation's labor
force and generated about 20% of total GNP. During 1991-93, however, employment in the sector
dropped to less than 5 % of the labor force and the contribution to GNP fell to 7.4%. After reaching
a nadir in 1993, the Lithuanian construction industry has begun to adjust to the structural changes
of economic transition and the resulting new market conditions by privatizing and downsizing. The
problem of overcapacity is being addressed, but not yet resolved. The export of Lithuanian
expertise and labor has softened the impact of reduced construction activity at home (foreign work
in the FSU increased by 30% after independence, and represented about 16% of the industry's 1993
domestic volume).' According to the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development, 98% of
construction and building materials industries are privatized [1994]. Most of these are not ready to
compete and survive under the current changing market conditions, and significant restructuring is
expected to occur in the industry over the next five years.  Encouraged by favorable tax treatment3
small companies are entering the market to meet the demand for small-scale private construction,
alterations, and repairs.
2.   Building Materials, Distribution and Retailing. The building materials industry's production
has also dropped since 1990, but not as much as construction activity, thanks largely to exports,
which actually increased after 1990. However, the impact of superior imported materials and
I       While over 5,000 firms are now registered with the Ministry of Economy as construction firms, this number is
thought to be highly inflated. A more likely number is 550-600 active firms, plus self-employed journeymen working on
an opportunity basis. The majority are privatized joint-stock companies. Proprietorships and foreign joint ventures
represent a very small part of the whole. The nature of Lithuania's privatized joint-stock companies is similar to that of
other FSU countries.
2       The impact of such restructuring will be felt primarily by the companies that are too large, inefficient and
focused on single technologies to compete for the small-scale construction and rehabilitation projects that will constitute
the thrust of market demand for the next several years.
Firms with fewer than 50 employees pay 50% of the rate paid by larger firms.



- 61 -                                        Annex 3
methods is being felt, as Lithuanian production systems and design are outdated. While the
industry is trying to modernize, sufficient financing for needed capital investment is unavailable.
Both local and imported materials are readily available in Lithuania, and there are no restrictions on
the import or use of foreign construction materials as long as they meet the standards of the
exporting country. Local industry produces the basic products of cement, lime, wood, glass, clay,
metals, and plastics.4 Wood windows and doors are made in Lithuania, and the production of
mineral wool insulation is expected to start soon. The construction materials and supplies
distribution system has not yet developed in Lithuania. For all practical purposes wholesale trade
does not exist.5
3.   Design Firms and Labor. Lithuania has an abundance of trained and experienced architects
and engineers, but no system of regulation and licensing. Most are still to be found in large "design
institutes" that formerly were state entities, and many individuals moonlight as private consultants.
The construction labor force is well-trained and sufficient to support currently projected increases in
construction activity . Lithuania has a well-developed training program for construction trades, and
enrollment is deemed sufficient to fulfill skilled labor requirements in the near future. Design and
construction professionals are also readily available, according to industry managers.
4.   Technology and Equipment. In Lithuania, construction materials and methods, and the
concomitant problems, are typical of FSU countries: brick and concrete are the main structural
materials, with large panel pre-cast concrete being the most common for buildings built in the last
20 years. The effect of this single system approach on the construction industry is to make it more
rigid and less flexible in adapting to new demands of varying scale and of competition in the
market. Light wood or steel frame construction is likely to become more popular. It is felt that the
strongest part of the housing market will be for low-rise, detached or high-density row housing.
The heavy equipment in the inventories of large firms in Lithuania exceeds any current or projected
industry need. Some of this is stockpiled abroad in other FSU countries, but the surplus is still
clear. This equipment is generally quite old, however, often dating to the '50's and '60's. In the
near future, the industry will face the need to replace much of its equipment. However, equipment
rental firms are being established and construction firms frequently borrow equipment from each
other.
5.   Procurement systems and experience. Although experience is limited, Government seeks to
promote competitive bidding and has instituted procedures for public procurement following
methods acceptable to the Bank. The legal structure for the system is in place, and Bank standard
documents are accepted. The private sector has also begun to use competitive procurement
methods.
4       Controls on imported materials are expected to increase as current review and revision of standards and norms
rogresses.
Although over 700 building materials wholesalers are listed with the Ministry of Economy, they are thought to
be mainly manufacturers and foreign product representatives. Contractors are obliged to overstock in order to maintain
needed materials levels (many operate their own retail outlets in conjunction with their construction activities). Foreign
materials and supplies are readily imported and available, at import duties ranging from 10 to 25%, in addition to 18%
VAT. Better quality and appearance have made imported products popular to the broader public in spite of being two to
three times more expensive. However, prices for imports are falling as foreign manufacturers started to avoid
intermediary local companies and come directly into the market. Increased competition from foreign imports has forced
some local producers to shut down or reduce production.
6       About 120,000 jobs in construction were lost since 1990. While many workers have been absorbed in other
areas, former workers can be considered as a part of the available labor pool.



- 62 -                                Annex 3
C. AVAILABILITY OF ENERGY-RELATED BUILDING MATERIALS
1.  Loose insulation for attics is manufactured in Lithuania and is inexpensive. High density
mineral wool insulation for roofs is not made in Lithuania, but joint ventures between Lithuanian
and Nordic companies will soon meet anticipated increase in demand. External wall insulation,
because of the high cost of imported materials and continuing low energy pricing, is not expected to
be demanded in significant quantities in the near future. Lithuanian firms have little experience in
the fabrication of external insulation, but a few are in the process of importing this know-how or
creating new local products that are significantly cheaper than imported ones, a step that might have
the effect of increasing demand.
2.  Windows and doors manufactured under former Soviet conditions and standards are among the
weakest links in building energy conservation. Where new windows and doors are necessary,
imported PVC or wood units are unaffordable. However, local production of European type has
begun, and the products are significantly cheaper than the imports. While heating system equipment
- including exchangers, pumps, valves and electronic controls - is mostly available locally or from
Russia, Lithuanians are turning towards more technologically sound imported products. Local
companies can be expected to improve their participation in the market by adapting modern
technologies to their production as well as through joint ventures with foreign producers. System
quality and range of choice of equipment will improve through this process.



- 63 -                                Annex 4
4. AFFORDABILITY AND SUBSIDY ANALYSIS
Onlending Terms to Ultimate Borrowers and Affordability
1.  As described in Section III-C and in Annex 6, proceeds of the project would be onlent, in local
currency, to the final borrowers (homeowners and homeowners' associations) through commercial
banks. Terms would be determined as follows and are subject to adjustments as experience is being
gained:
(a)    Loan amount: Up to 90% of investment. Minimum downpayment of 10%.
(b)    Maturity: From 3 up to 10 years and in all cases no more than the length of the expected
payback period (size of loan divided by estimated annual savings in energy cost).
(c)    Repayment method Graduated payment method, currently assumed at a graduation rate of
12% p.a. (or average inflation rate for the next decade). At this rate, payments would
basically be maintained in real terms. For a 10 year loan, this method yields negative
amortization in the first three to four years. For loans with maturity of six years or less, all
amortization would be positive.
(d)    Interest rate: Proceeds from the project would be onlent from the revolving fund (see
Annex 6) through commercial banks at the prevailing rate.
2.  Affordability is difficult to determine based on available data and knowledge. Official income
data does not provide the full picture of resources available to households. Household income has
fluctuated greatly during the past year. There is little 'rule of thumb' to indicate what is considered
to be affordable (such as housing expenditures as share of income) in the context of Lithuania.
However, examining ten case studies in the cities of Vilnius, Kaunas and Alytus which involve
investments ranging from LT 400 to LT 6400 per apartment for various renovation packages (Table
1), it is evident that loans for certain renovations would have significant financial burden on
households with low income.
3.  Of particular concern is the potential impact of borrowing for those who are currently
qualified for the government's subsidy for residential heating and hot water. As monthly loan
payment would be offset by less saving in energy cost for these apartment owners (part of the
savings will be reaped by the government in terms of reduced subsidy on utilities) the incentive for
them to renovate for energy efficiency is lower than for their neighbors in the same building. This
might cause two types of problems: poor households may be forced to participate because they are
usually a minority; or households currently enjoying subsidies will be blocking otherwise good
measures to improve energy efficiency because they see themselves benefiting less by comparison.
However, this is not expected to affect a significant portion of the population. This matter will be
closely monitored and studied during the initial year of project implementation. In the longer term,
it will be addressed through the rationalization and consolidation of the social safety net system, and
the rationalization of household spending.



- 64 -                                 Annex 4
Subsidy
4.  In addition to potential difficulties faced by households in meeting their monthly payments if
no subsidy is to be provided, detailed beneficiary studies revealed apprehension towards taking a
loan, even if affordable, because of the substantial transaction costs involved in organizing such
collective actions, and the social learning cost of moving from a 50 year tradition of relying on the
Government to take care of housing. Hence, an initial incentive in the form of a subsidy is required
during initial project implementation. Mistrust and apprehension amongst households concerning
the correctness of available information, including information on energy savings to be expected
from specific rehabilitation measures, increases their perceived risk of such activities. Qualitative
interviews with households willing to and already engaged in collective activities for energy
efficiency improvements indicate that interest rates of, at maximum, 15% would be considered
acceptable (see Annex 1-C). A tradition of receiving benefits for free and government loans at 5%
or 8% appears to have created resistance against loans at interest rates higher than 15%. From
currently available data, a subsidy which will yield an effective interest of 15% seems appropriate
for the first year of project implementation. This would place most households at a comfortable
position of spending less than 2-3% of their income for comprehensive renovation packages. It is
expected that the subsidy level will be reviewed semi-annually to take into account the changes in
people's attitude to borrow for cost effective energy saving measures, and market interest rates.
Over time this general subsidy will be phased out or reoriented to the neediest.
5.  Subsidies will be provided on a month to month basis in the form of reduced payment
obligation. All borrowers in good standing will be eligible. Although administratively this is more
cumbersome than a lump sum subsidy at the time of investment, the matching payment method will
have the added advantage of making the subsidy evident to program beneficiaries throughout the life
of the loan.
6.  Using data from five case studies, the financial burden on poor households including single
pensioners with no other sources of income and those in the three lowest income deciles is
examined and presented in Table 2 and Figures 1-4. The Figures show percentages of household
income that would have to be spent on servicing the debt for energy efficiency renovations under
the following four discrete situations: (1) with Government subsidy and with the full benefit of
energy savings; (2) with Government subsidy but without any benefit of energy savings; (3) with no
Government subsidy but with full benefit of energy savings; and (4) with neither subsidy nor
benefit of energy savings. This is obviously a simplification of real life situations where many
households in these income categories are eligible for some but not the full heating and hot water
subsidies (i.e. most cases lie between Figures I and 2 with repayment subsidies, and between
Figures 3 and 4 without repayment subsidies).
7.  As illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, with Government subsidies in loan repayment, even the very
poor households will be able to afford the very modest packages (cases la and 2a). This holds true
even in cases in which part of the savings will benefit the Government as a reduction in heating
subsidies. With the exception of the poorest 10%, many basic packages (such as 5b and 9b) are
within the reach of low income households. As demonstrated in Figures 3 and 4 , most households
in low income groups would not be able to afford the basic packages (cases Sb, 9b and 10) without
Government subsidies. For the project to gain acceptance by the majority of the population at the
outset, subsidies on repayment appear to be well justified.



- 65 -                                 Annex 4
Affordability Analysis
Table 1: Sample Cases of Base Package for Energy Efficiency Improvement
No.           Address             Type  Units Temp  Investment Savings Investmt  Payback
C       Litas     Lltas   per Unit.  Years
la Zirmunu 15 - Minimal Package Homes   100    18          40,600   11,279       406        3.6
lb  Base Package                                          235,395   19,431     2,354       12.1
2a  Narucio 37 - Minimal Package IHomes    16    18        19,690    3,628     1,231        5.4
2b  Base Package                                           94,675    6,800     5,917       13.9
3a Mildos 11, Vilnius           Homes    32    18         179,576   16,064     5,612       11.2
3b                                        38    18
4  Zadeikosl 1, Vilnius        Homes    64    18         258,827   32,518      4,044        8.0
5a IS. Zukausto 33, Kaunas      Homes    81    18         261,266   39,613     3,226        6.6
5b                                         -     13       261,266   29,390                  8.9
6a  Partizanu 104, Kaunas       Homes    60    18         253,067   20,718     4,218       12.2
6b                                               13       253,067   15,093                 16.8
7a V. Kreves 66, Kaunas         Homes   100    18         243,094   19,308     2,431       12.6
7b                                               13       243,094   14,854                 16.4
8  tTaikos 151, Vilnius        Homes    32    18         167,328   12,659     5,229       13.2
9a |Jaunimo 12, Alytus          Homes    20    18          90,502    7,343     4,525       12.3
9b                                         =     13        90,502    5,490                 16.5
10 Jaunimo 60, Alytus           Homes    22    18         139,937    7,065     6,361       19.8



Affordability Analysis
Table 2:           Loan Payment As ∞/e of Before Tax Household Income
__~~~_  _ __                                     7L_          X__         r.         _                  __H_I
With Benefit of Energy Saving         Without Benefit of Energy Saving
Investment                       Average Household Income (Litas/mo)     Average Household Income (Litas/mo)
Per Unit   Maturity  Subsidy  Poorest   Decile 1  Decile 2   Decile 3  Poorest   Decile 1  Decile 2   Decile 3
Case   (1995 Litas)  (Year)    (%)       230        430       770        980     230        430       770       980
la Minimal       406               22                   0              0              5         3         2         1
2a Minimal     1,231      6        38         0         0         0         0         8         4         2         2
5b Base       3,226     6         38         4     _  2          1         1        21        11         6         5
9b Base       4,525     10        51         4         2         1         1        20        11         6         5                a'
10 Base       6,361     10        51        10         5         3         2        28        15         8         6
la Minimal                          0         1         1         0         0         6         3         2         2
2a Minimal                          0         3         1         0         0        13         7         4         3
5b Base                            0        14         7         4         3        34        18        10         8
9b Base                            0        24        13         8         5        42        22        12        10
10 Base                            0        38        20        1 1        9        58    _  30         17        13
Poorest is defined as single pensioner with no other sources of income living alone
For purpose of comparison, average pension is adjusted to take into account the tax exem  t_status of pension.  _



Alfordability Analysis
Loan Payment As % of Before Tax Household Income
Figure    Wt usde it nrySvFigure 3: Without Subsidies/With Energy Savings
Figure 1: With Subsidies/With Energy Savings|
30                                                                                                  30
25                                                                                                  25                           _______________   _
20                                                                                                  20                                . _De_le 1
15                                                      % is                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Deale 2
% 15  -OPooresll                                                                                                          %                             15 _D_ le
U Derile 1
10          .                                        _                 Decile 2                     lO              _         __L
UDcl Docile 3                                    -- 
5.__ ________  5____                                .            __                             5--        --          -
0.                         I             r6ii-L                                                     0 r1r           El.m       
la          2a        Sb Base      Ob Base      10 Bass                                             la         2a        Sb Base    9b Base    10 Base
Minimal     Minimal                                                                                Minimal    Minimal
Figuro 2: With Subsidios/Wlthout Enorgy Savings                                                  Figuro 4: Without Subsidies/Without Energy Savings
30                                                                                                30
25  -_- _        ____            _                  _       - _.                                  25
20                                                ODedle I                                                                                           Cl Poorest~~~OPo,es
2  0   \ - -_ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _   \ D e c ile   1               2 0  - - _ _ _  _      _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _   0   P o es l
* Docile 2                                                                                         M Decile 1
% 15                                      -                             UDecile3                  %      -_____                               6. DeciIo2
E Decis 3
5-                                                                                                5-                      _
1a          2a        Sb Base     9b Base      tO Base                                            la          2a         Sb Base     9b Basa      10 Base                      >
Minimal     Minimal                                                                               Minmal       Minmal 
__ _  . _ . _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ ., . _ . AMiniml                                 Minmal                                                            c



- 68 -                                       Annex 5
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
I    The following table summarizes 11 Technical Assistance (TA) components that are believed to
be essential to (a) support the various stakeholders in their participation in the project, and to (b)
document steps taken and progress made, on the technical as well as on the social/institutional side,
such that the proposed project can indeed provide lessons learned from its implementation for the
design of other programs and projects and institutional environments.
Implementation consultant  To start as soon as       Total:  USD    434,000    Danish Ministry of Housing
I to Project Coordination    possible. PCU should be                               (USD 321,000)
Unit (PCUJ)               fully established by August
1996.
Advice to homeowners      Advice-Team should start   Total:  USD    364,200    possibly SIDA (Sweden)
and homeowvners'          no later than September                                (USD 254,000)
2    associations on ffnancial,   1996
legal and social aspects,  Advice activities to be
through advisory centers    transferred, into advisory
run by the Lithuanian Asso^  centers, to be set up
ciation of Homeowners'    starting January 1997
Associations (AHA),       (Vilnius) and July 1997
_                       (Ka~~~~~~~unas)
Advice to homeowvners     Energy Efficiency expert    Total:  USD    554,000    EU and Dutch financing
and homeowners'           (foreign) , jointly with local                         (USD 584,000)
3    associations in all       team, starting from August
technical issues arising  1996, over implementation
from investing in energy    period, to provide technical
efficiency improvements in  advice to homeowners and
their buildings, including  their associations, initially
assessment of the scope   on an ad-hoc basis, adjusted
for energy efficiency     to individual requests, later
improvements, the         accessible to a wider
preparation of investment    public, possibly through
proposals acceptable to   advisory centers set up with
commercial banks deciding   financing under this TA
about loan eligibility, and    component. The assistance
continued assistance during  to be organized such that,
the procurement of works    later on, it can be provided,
and the supervision of their  in a qualified form, on a
_ implementation.            fee-for-service basis
Technical Monitoring of    Monitoring of buildings   Total:  USD    380,000    Dutch or SIDA financing
4    Energy Savings             undertaking investments                               possibly forthcoming for
over at least two heating                             USD 205,200
seasons per building,until at
_                       ~~~~~~~~~least 1997/1998.
Social Monitoring         To start with first lending  Total:  USD    332,000.   Danish Ministry of Housing
5                               operation in 1996; ongoing                            (USD 205,000)
over 3 YearS minimum
Public Information        To start before/during first   Total:  USD    210,000.   Danish Ministry of Housing
6    Program                    lending operation in 1996;                            (USD 210,000)
activities over a minimum
of three vears.



-69 -                                           Annex 5
Type ot Auiistance                Tklg                 &umi   ppsiCP ble Sciartes n(
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . --  . .-  . .--.:-..--:.ie-..
, .. , - , :'., ,  . , . . , . . . . . . . ... .   ',., ,. ,   ,.,.   . , = . .. ... .... .. . . . . . .. .............  _a d i
(a) Loan Appraisal          To start in 1996 and        Total:  USD       196,000.    Dutch financing (USD
7    Support for Banks            continue for three years                                  96,000)
minimum
___  (b) Training for Banks
8    Training for Consultants /  To start before/during first   Total   USD     86,600      Danish Ministry of Housing
Contractors                lending operation, for at                                  (USD 86,600)
least one year.
9    Study on housing             To be completed by          USD 25,000 for each           to be determined
maintenance organizations    October 1, 1997.           municipality
in two municipalities                                   96/97:  USD       50,000.
Study on Government         To be carried out between    96/97:  USD      100,000    to be determined
10   assistance programs to the    August 1996 and September
housing sector, including   1997.
existing 'Bustas' program,
renovation and heating
subsidy programs, to
refocus or target assistance
to the neediest groups in
snc:ety
Project Coordination Unit   Activities to start in May  Total:  USD    223,200        Recurrent costs to be
11   tPCU)                        1996. Fully functional by                                 financed by Government
August 1996.                                              counterpart funds
Total   USD 2,900,000         Financing likely to be
Sunimary                                                                              secured: USD 1,961,800
Financing outstanding/
from project funds:
USD   938,200



- 70 -                                Annex 6
6. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR A REVOLVING FUND
1. Under the proposed project, the Government of Lithuania (GOL) and the Bank loan would
provide a total of about US$13.8 million for the rehabilitation of private homes to improve thermal
efficiency. In order to increase the impact of this pilot project to meet a greater part of the
projected financial needs for rehabilitation of private homes, loans for Residential Energy
Efficiency Improvements will function as a revolving fund in local currency.
2. Proforma projections of the revolving fund (RF) and assumptions used for the projections are
provided below. The model indicates that the RF would be financially sustainable for about ten
years. During this period, the revolving mechanism would allow it to provide loans up to a total of
about 128 million Litas (or 68 million Litas in 1995 terms) after servicing the Bank loan over the
full 20 year period, and providing all applicable subsidies to borrowers during the ten year period.
Technical assistance to be provided under the project will include the development of a strategy for
redirecting or phasing out of the RF.
Sources of Funds
3. Bank Loan - US$8.2 million will be passed on from the MOF, through the RF, to commercial
banks to provide loans to homeowners. Funds will be passed on to the RF in local currency. The
Bank loan is to be disbursed over eight semesters starting July 1996.
4. Government Contribution - US$5.6 million will be provided directly to the RF and in local
currency over seven senmesters starting July 1996.
5. Repavment of Loans - Monthly payments to be made by borrowers (interest and principal) will
be collected by participating commercial banks and paid into the RF. For lending to owners of
single family home and individual apartments, the commercial banks will bear the full credit risks
and include a 4% spread to cover such risks. For lending to HOAs, the funds will be onlent
through commercial banks with 100% government guarantee at the outset. Accordingly, the
commercial banks will process the loans (appraisal, negotiation, disbursement and collection) on a
fee for service basis. Specifically, the banks will be paid a I % fee on funds disbursed (to cover
cost of loan processing up to and including the cost of disbursing the funds), and a 3% fee on
funds collected from HOAs (to cover loan servicing costs). The commercial banks will have the
option to take on all or part of the credit risk over time. The spread and fee structure will be re-
negotiated periodically to reflect changed circumstances. Graduated payment method (at 12% p.a.)
may be used to improve affordability in the initial year(s) and maintain monthly payment more or
less level in real terms. 60%, 30% and 10% of funds are expected to be passed on as ten-year, six-
year and three-year loans respectively, reflecting roughly the different payback periods of various
types of investments.



-71-                                  Annex 6
Uses of Funds
6.  Repayment of Bank Loan - MOF will be responsible for servicing the full Bank loan including
the US$1.8 portion onlent to municipalities for the renovation of schools. However, out of the RF
account, the portion of the loan has to be serviced that covers loans to home owners and HOAs,
cost to establish and operate the Project Coordination Unit, cost to cover the annual audit as
required by the Bank, as well as activities under the technical assistance and institutional
development components not financed through grants.
7.  Government Subsidies - Government subsidy will be financed out of the RF with the
objectives to improve affordability, reduce risk avert behavior, and encourage participation (see
Annex I and Annex 4 on willingness to pay and affordability). All borrowers in good standing will
be eligible for the subsidy which will be presented as a reduction in monthly payments. At the
beginning of the project, the level of subsidy will be set so as to give the borrowers a cost
corresponding to a loan interest of 15%. As of January 1996, subsidy for 10, 6 and 3 year loans
are estimated to be 51 %, 37% and 22% of total payment. This represents the difference in monthly
payment between an estimated market rate of 33 % (T-bill at 28 % plus I % for the Ministry of
Finance to cover administrative costs for the RF and credit risks for lending to banks, plus 4%
spread to cover cost and credit risk for lending to home owners and HOAs) and 15 %. The subsidy
level will be reviewed and determined periodically.
8.  Loans Processed through Commercial Banks - Funds after payment of all applicable
Governmnent subsidies and debt servicing obligations will be available for lending through
commercial banks.
General Assunptions
9.  The following general assumptions are the basis of the calcuations for the Fund:
(a)    Domestic inflation rate: 20% for 1996, 15% for 1997, and 10% for 1998 and thereafter.
(b)    Exchange rate: As of January 1996, the local currency is officially pegged to the USD at 4
Litas per Dollar. All loan proceeds would be passed on in Litas to the Fund, commercial
banks, and ultimate borrowers. MOF would bear the full exchange risks associated with
the Bank loan in Dollars. Based on the projected international and domestic inflation rates,
a reserve will be included in the RF to cover possible fluctuations in the exchange rate
between the Dollar and the Lita.
(c)    Downpavment: 10% for all loans to homeowners and HOAs.



Tablo 1: Financial Projectiuns of the Revolvinig Fund (RF)                           ______
Proiectlions (1996 - 20161                                   ________    ___
Pavynents on Loans ol 1000 LIlas ('000 LilasI.
Year j           I      ~ ~~2    3        4        5      6       7       8      9       10    I1I
Io Year Loanis           02    0-26    030~    6 33    037   0142   047   02    08    065'  03   _  _                               0 08
6yeagILoa                0.1    033         _~37  0.41_  _046   _051  027   __ _-07__                                                                                      _
3 year Loans             0 24                                                                                                       019          ____ _56__30_    _is
0%- io Y-ea L oasis       - 0067    016 -601-8   062-0 -0 22 --0.25   028    031    0'35   -0 39    021T                             -01                               ___   __
30% GYe-a-Lo-ans-             - 0-.05    010    OIl     0.12    01 4   0.5 008__                                             ___         02                  __        _
10% 38(Lon  _____            - 002    005-   006        003 ___--___-                                                                    01la
Total belaic subsidy   ___ 0--614  0-.3-1  -034  03i5   -036   0.40  0-36   0.31    03Y5 0.9        21__    __             __           -______
51%  loYearLoans               0 04    0 08    009      0 10    011  _0.13   0 14   016    0.10    020    011i                          -a01 6__                                __
38% 6Y~ea- Lo-anls             00o 2    004C   - 004    0 -.05-  0-605    0066   003i   0.00     000    0.00    000         -0.10
22% 3ye-voan                   00       001    6001     00 - 6    -6000-- -000    6.000    0.0-0   0.-00-   000 -o   0.0-0 __                          ______
Total Subsidy    _       0 06    0 13 0-&14       0.1i5  017-- 019    017    0.16    01          020    0.11  _                                          ________
Total after subsl      __        008    I018     00       0.20    0.20   0.22   0.19   0 15- 0.17   0 19    0.10 __                      __                                       __        __
5% Adjustbsents
AilWe-,Adjuslgnents       0--08   061-7  -0 19         019g    0 19    0 021   018l  -015    016    018   -0.10 _
-- 77.7 --.--. -l --  -.- O;.                                                                                            -.
Fe lof ColIlect(io                 0%Alowanice for bad debtti      2.0%   -- ToUa Adiusliwttit           5.0%  ____
ExchangeRate           4Summiarof the Revolvin)Fund                                                                                                                  N
Bank &      Debt --FilRisk    Dilabursemenn Peiod boaits                     Revolvini LoAns                             90%                Las         jleto 199          .
_Yea,    GO1    _Servico    Ad].        I       2        3       4       6       6      7       A       9      10-       -    Loans  InvesItilts Innlaton Factors Loans lnvuslntls ___
1  24600      -5         -2    238            ___                                                                 1 _     2.4         26 2%    1.20    2.0         22___
-2        9200       -410  _  .126    401   .9690 ___                                                  _            .2          9.7      10 8    15%    1.38    7.0       78 ___
3i    16800         .748           300    449    18.40  -102       --                               ___- -               3     19.1     21.2   10%    1 i52    12 6      14 0           __
4     220 .OM    1260-    -645    444    1836    3227  -28204                                                        -4      28.2     31.3   10%    1 67   16.9       188 a__         _
5  400       -89       129       439    1818    384   47-182                                                      5      12 5     13.9    1 0     1.84    8 8       7.6
5  W  -1639~~ -1.2.---                        - .77-.6                                                             4       15 01202                4.4528__2_
6                .2592    .1808     492    1708    3578   5345   2112  -0445                              6-        .         94      105      0      202     47 
-7   ___         .3295      28~30    423   2013    3538   5202   2365   1598  -9732               ___                         97       10.8    10O%   2i.22    44       4          oa
8  _______  .3205    .3278  345 -- 1730    3982    523    232 190 14   .19               --8                   112      1.4  -10 l    2.44   -46         51Reflow ILPayment
9     .3~~95    .3759    387    1413    3405    5860 -32315   1772   1844    18965 -12653                  9      12 7     14_1   10%    2 69    4.7        5       After Year
10 __   _   -3295    .4275    ~~~~~~433   1C583    2781T -5038   2593  -1752   1826 -2122  2141  -13572      10     13 6      15.1   10%    2.96    4 6        5.1        l0
Il               .3295    .4820    220- 1773    3115   4113   2228   1062   1805   2101   2308   2207                 1 1                                                      22020     8125
Il               -320,    f.~414             130    34011   4000   18210   I OtlU  21)22   2017   2374   2572         1  10 Years                                              21503     8?iU
--13                3295  __800)2                      10413   5150  -2030   1377   1738   2320   2347   2548 -   13 -  128 4    142 7               Li__thas    -682    757     136       935.7
1 4          :i-295     6i746         _                  2726   2283   1543   1419   1999   2829   2518          IA____                                                    15116    10042
15 -               3295    .7481  i___       -                         206   1728   1589 ~1633   2259   2820          IS5     2 51 (Revolviit 1 acto(-10 years--    ___        11235    10776
16                .3295i    8270                                              913   1780   1829   1845   2423         16                     - ~      -                          79      150
I?7                -3295  .-9 i116                  ____                                 40 _2048   2067   1979         17                                           ___          735   I12411-
la                 39       104___                                                           10182   2315   2217      18                                                        5813    13319
19           -~~~~~~3295   -10999                                                               1223   2483       193705    14294
.3295   -120.45                          __                                               1312      20 _______                                    ___         1312    15340
115785   1139481
-  5--0   -53161       92            ___
_ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _                                                                        ... - - - -   - - - - -   _ _                       _  _ -      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -0 0



- 73 -                                Annex 7
7. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
A.    ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
1. A set of eligibility criteria shall be used to determine the suitability of Lithuanian banks as
participating financial institutions (PFI) in the proposed project. To qualify, a PFI must:
(a)    have an acceptable audit report which covers one full year of operations, incorporates a
portfolio review, and is prepared by an internationally recognized audit firm in accordance
with International Accounting Standards (IAS);
(b)    have been in existence and have produced operating results for a minimum of two years;
(c)    agree to engage in an institutional development program designed in conjunction with the
World Bank to address any identified deficiencies, and to be implemented with the
assistance of an internationally experienced bank or other acceptable experts;
(d)    provide a Certificate of Compliance from the BOL stating that (i) it has a valid banking
license together with the type and date of license; (ii) the BOL is not aware of any criminal
proceedings ongoing against the bank or any of its shareholders holding voting rights in
excess of 10%; and (iii) the bank is in general compliance with all relevant banking laws
and regulations,
(e)    have minimum assets, as defined under IAS, equivalent to US$25 million;
(f)    have minimum equity capital (net worth) assets minus liabilities, as defined under IAS, in
an amount equivalent to US$2 million and would increase its capital as necessary to comply
with future increases required by BOL;
(g)    have a minimum BIS risk weighted capital (as defined under IAS) adequacy ratio of 6% by
year-end 1996, 7% by year-end 1997 and 8% by year-end 1998;
(h)    have an exposure to one borrower as a percent of its IAS equity capital of no more than
35% by year-end 1996, 30% by year-end 1997 and 25% by year end 1998;
(i)    have aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as council members, members of the
Management Board, employees in a management position and shareholders with voting
rights in excess of 10%) of no more than 80% of IAS equity by year-end 1996, 70% by
year-end 1997 and 60% by year-end 1998; and
(j)    have independent Board composition and functions acceptable to the Bank.
B.    ELIGIBLE BORROWERS
(i) Homeowners' Associations
2. Homeowners' Associations who wish to apply for a loan under the proposed project will have
to provide documentation verifying that:
(a)    Homeowners' Association is duly formed (with standard By-laws), registered and
established (in operation).
Bank for Intemational Settlement.



- 74 -                                Annex 7
(b)    Necessary decisions regarding the loan application have been taken by general meetings of
the Association.
(c)    The individual homeowners and the Association do not have any outstandingarrears for
utility services or maintenance fees to the Association.
(d)    Collection of charges for heating, hot water, and ongoing housing maintenance is managed
by the Association, or an agency/individual contracted by the Association for this purpose.
(e)    Heat meter is already installed and in operation in the building or is included in the
investment proposal.
(f)    The Association agrees to participate in a monitoring program coordinated by external
consultants (technical monitoring of energy efficiency and social monitoring through
interviews and/or surveys).
3.  Depending on the amount of the expected loan repayments, and the corresponding apartment-
size related charge to the apartment owners, the assosciation will have to comply with the following
requirements:
(a)    For a loan resulting in monthly repayments which, added to the heating costs, exceed the
nation-wide standard heating tariff per sqm, a requirement for a 2/3 majority in favor of the
loan at a general meeting of the homeowners' association.
(b)    For a loan resulting in monthly repayments which, added to the heating cost, exceed twice
the nation-wide standard heating tariff per sqm at the time of the decision, a requirement
that all apartment owners (not just association members) have voted in favor of such a loan
(ii) Single Family Homeowners
4.  Single Family Homeowners who wish to apply for a loan under the proposed project will have
to provide documentation verifying that:
(a)    Ownership (title)
(b)    Borrower is not staff of participating banks or the PCU.
(c)    The home owner have no outstanding arrears for utility services
(d)    The home owner agrees to participate in a monitoring program coordinated by independent
consultants (technical monitoring of energy efficiency and follow-up interviews and/or
surveys).
(e)    Other (according to bank assessments)
5.  Borrowers may through the PCU be offered surveying of the land under the buildings in order
to facilitate registration in the official land and property register expected to be established by the
Government.
(iii) Individual Apartment Owners
6.  Individual Apartment Owners who wish to apply for a loan under the proposed project will
have to provide documentation verifying that:



- 75 -                                Annex 7
(a)    Ownership (title)
(b)    Home owner belongs to a homeowners' association which has a loan approved through this
project for energy efficiency improvements of common areas in the building.
(c)    Borrower is not staff of participating banks or the PCU.
(d)    The home owner has no outstanding arrears for utility services
(e)    The home owner agrees to participate in a monitoring program coordinated by independent
consultants (technical monitoring of energy efficiency and follow-up interviews and/or
surveys).
(f)    Other (according to bank assessments)
C.    ELIGIBLE SUB-PROJECTS
(i) For Apartment Buildings
7.  Investment proposal documented according to guidelines/Operating Procedures.
8.  All investments to be financed by the loan must be physical improvements that reduce the
building's consumption of energy for space heating and for the production and distribution of hot
water. In cases where serious structural problems exist, urgent repairs that do not have primarily
energy-saving purposes but will protect the structural integrity of the building and thereby the
thermal efficiency investments, are eligible if undertaken at the same time as the energy efficinecy
improvements (for example, roof reconstruction and joint/crack repairs).
9.  Specific eligible improvement measures are (new insulation must meet latest Lithuanian norms
for thermal resistance).
(a)    Modernization or replacement of heating system (e.g. instalement of heat exchanger,
balancing valves, dual pipe heating system);
(b)    Change from centralized domestic hot water preparation to heat exchanger in the building's
substation.
(c)    Instalment of heat meter;
(d)    Instalment thermostatic radiator valves.
(e)    Wall rehabilitation due to cracks.
(f)    Wall insulation.
(g)    Window repairs.
(h)    Window tightening with strips.
(i)    Window exchange.
(j)    Glazing of balconies.
(k)    Staircase window repairs or replacement
(1)    New staircase entrance doors with door closers or repair of existing exterior doors.
(m)   Roof insulation.
(n)    Roof repair
(o)    Construction of pitched roofs with new insulation.



- 76 -                                 Annex 7
10.  The borrower must have sought qualified advice regarding the estimated energy savings of
the investments.
11.  The building must be fundamentally structurally sound: with the proposed investments, the
building is expected to have a continued life of a minimum of 15 years without major renovations.
12.  The investment proposal in total has an estimated payback period of less than 10 years.
13.  Evidence that all necessary permits have been obtained.
14.  Examples of investments NOT eligible are:
(a)    extra facilities in basement or under pitched roof;
(b)    construction of new apartments under a new roof;
15.  A borrower may do additional investments at the same time with other funds.
(ii) For Single Family Homes
16.  Investment proposal documented according to guidelines provided by and through the
Advisory Service.
17.  All investments to be financed by the loan must be physical improvements that reduce the
house's consumption of energy for space heating and for the production and distribution of hot
water. In cases where serious structural problems exist, urgent repairs that do not have primarily
energy-saving purposes but will protect the structural integrity of the building and thereby the
thermal efficiency investments financed by the loan, are eligible if undertaken at the same time as
the energy efficinecy improvements (for example, roof reconstruction and wall joint/crack repairs).
18.  Specific eligible improvement measures are (new insulation must meet latest Lithuanian
norms for thermal resistance):
(a)    Modernization of heating system including heat meter (if not already existing)
(b)    Individual heating system (e.g. oil or gas boiler, wood ship/peat furnace, multi-fuel boiler)
(Note: installation of electrical heating system is NOT eligible).
(c)    New piping system
(d)    Instantaneous domestic hot water heater.
(e)    Instalment of thermostatic radiator valves
(f)    Water saving shower heads
(g)    Glazing of outdoor area or balcony
(h)    Wall rehabilitation due to cracks
(i)    Wall insulation
(j)    Window improvement: tightening with strips; inside third pane; repair of windows;
replacement of windows.
(k)    New entrance doors with door closers
(1)    Roof insulation



- 77 -                                Annex 7
(m)   Roof repair, if necessary as part of insulation
(n)    Construction of pitched roof with new insulation (if currently flat roof)
19.  The borrower must have sought qualified advice regarding the estimated energy savings of
the investments.
20.  The house must be fundamentally structurally sound: with the proposed investments, the
building is expected to have a continued life of a minimum of 15 years without major renovations.
21.  The total living space of the house must be less than  sqm (specified appropriately in
Operating Procedures).
22.  Proposed investments must be less than    Litas/sqm of the living space (specified
appropriately in Operating Procedures)
23.  The investment proposal in total has an estimated payback period of less than 10 years.
24.  Evidence that all necessary permits have been obtained.
25.  Evidence provided that the house is adequately insured (the insurance will be assigned to the
bank through the sub-loan agreement).
26.  Examples of investments NOT eligible are:
(a)    additional facilities in basement or under roof;
(b)    construction of new living space under a new roof;
27.  A borrower may do additional investments at the same time with other funds.
(iii) For Individual Apartments
28.  Investment proposal documented according to guidelines provided through the Operating
Procedures.
29.  All investments to be financed by the loan must be physical improvements that reduce the
house's consumption of energy for space heating and for the production and distribution of hot
water.
30.  Specific eligible improvement measures are (new insulation must meet latest Lithuanian
norms for thermal resistance):
(a)    Hot water meter.
(b)    Window improvement: tightening with strips; inside third pane; repair of windows;
replacement of windows.
(c)    New door to staircase
(d)    Instantaneous domestic water heater (if not centrally installed).
(e)    Thermostatic radiator valves (if building has dual pipe system)



- 78 -                                 Annex 7
(f)    Shower head (to reduce hot water consumption)
(g)    Balcony glazing.
(h)    Repair or replacement of leaking hot water pipes.
(i)    Repair or replacement of leaking water taps.
31.  The borrower must have sought qualified advice regarding the estimated energy
savings of the investments.
32.  The investment proposal in total has an estimated payback period of less than 10 years.
33.  Evidence that all necessary permits have been obtained.



- 79 -                                 Annex 8
8. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. CONCEPTS OF MONITORING AND MEASURING
1.  In most projects, project monitoring is primarily a management tool used to obtain information
about implementation progress and impact that can be used to overcome problems and bottlenecks.
to identify new opportunities and challenges, to incorporate lessons from experience into ongoing
operations, and to assess the relative success of the overall project and its components in meeting its
objectives. These objectives are of particular relevance for the proposed Energy
Efficiency/Housing Pilot project, as it is fundamentally designed to develop the capacity of
individuals and institutions to assume ownership of project activities and outcomes. By definition,
such projects as this are designed and implemented based on very limited knowledge and
experience. Even if desired outcomes and impact are clear and easily defined, implementation
approaches are well articulated and structured, and implementation mechanisms appear to be
acceptable to various stakeholders, the project itself offers the first test of the validity and
compatibility of project concepts. The project itself is also the principal source of new information
that can be used to refine or reject project concepts and generate new, more appropriate ones.
Thus, in this type of project, monitoring for learning is even more important than monitoring for
assessment.
Monitoring Objectives and Project Context
2.  The institutional context of the proposed project is both a major challenge and a major
opportunity. The impact of the project will depend on the successful creation of new institutions,
redefinition of existing institutions, and both the creation and modification of relationships between
old and new institutions. The project will involve a matrix of institutions from the public and
private sectors, NGOs and civil society. Target beneficiaries are homeowners, who participate in
the project through new homeowners' associations. These will ultimately be served by a new
advocacy/service entity, an association of homeowners' associations. The Ministry of Construction
and Urban Development (MCUD) will play catalytic and oversight roles to set, oversee and
implement new housing sector policies. Banks will serve new clients in new ways, as will
contractors.
3.  Similarly, relationships will change. Currently, most interactions between institutions, and
between institutions and individuals are hierarchical, ad hoc, and monopolistic, manifesting strong
patron/client arrangements. Through the project, relationships between institutions and individuals
in the housing sector will become more transparent, accountable and systematic, based on supplier/
consumer partnerships that reflect both vested interests and interdependencies, as well as informed
choice. Project monitoring will track the creation and reorientation of institutions and relationships,
and the impact of such changes on project implementation and the lives of intended beneficiaries.
4.  Under the proposed project there are eight specific project objectives to monitor, one
anticipated impact and one condition for effective implementation. The objectives are measurable
outcomes to which specific project interventions are directed:
(a)    Reduction in heating cost for homeowners
(b)    Strengthened self-management in buildings (homeowners' associations)
(c)    Increased access for homeowners to technical information



- 80 -                                 Annex 8
(d)    Information on energy to be saved through energy efficiency rehabilitation in schools
(e)    Reduced transaction costs for credit and residential improvements
(f)    Increased client orientation (amongst banks, officials, contractors, consultants)
(g)    Increased transparency in credit and contracting (through standardization and accountability)
(h)    Increased private sector contractor demand and quality.
5.  Energy saving investments may not be affordable to all residents in some buildings. If the
majority of homeowners in their building nevertheless wants to invest in energy efficiency
improvements, some homeowners may choose to relocate to more affordable accommodations. An
indirect impact of the project may thus be:
(a)    Market-based residential readjustment
6.  Finally, effective implementation of the project will require increased coordination among a
number of institutional stakeholders, including the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Construction
and Urban Development, Ministry of Energy, municipalities, banks, contractors, and others. A
project implementation mechanism that should be monitored is therefore:
(a)    Increased coordination among housing-related institutions.
Project Monitoring Overview
7.  Project monitoring will systematically gather data that can be used to measure changes in the
areas listed above, as well as to identify problems that impede progress. The monitoring program
will thus serve both the ongoing monitoring needs of project management and the periodic
stocktaking and evaluation needs of various stakeholders. Above all, the approach will provide a
practical learning tool to aid in the design of a larger follow-on project.
8.  Monitoring techniques will include household socio-economic surveys, participant observation
and simple, unobtrusive record-keeping. The monitoring will involve a range of stakeholders both
as subjects and recipients of the data. Basic institutional monitoring will occur throughout the
project period, expanding in coverage as project activities increase in number and location.
Household and impact monitoring will be conducted on a rolling basis, including new stakeholders
when they are drawn into the project and maintaining contact thereafter.
9.  Monitoring will be managed by staff in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), utilizing three
primary mechanisms: first, participating institutions, which will periodically provide information
regarding their operations; second, staff in the PCU who will be responsible for most of the
qualitative data-gathering and follow-up to obtain standard records from various institutions, as well
as analysis and reporting; and third, a part-time survey team will be engaged to conduct household
surveys in buildings as they join the program (Baseline Survey), as well as periodic follow-up
surveys to obtain information about different processes and to assess satisfaction levels and impact.
These Milestone Surveys will be conducted at the time the loan is requested, when it is granted,
when tendering is compieted and when the work is completed. The team can be mobilized from
Universities or one of the local research firms. The head of the survey team, who serves as a
technical advisor to the PCU, will prepare data gathering and analysis strategies, mobilize interview
teams, enter and process the data, and analyze results. Questionnaires will be simple, standardized



- 81 -                                 Annex 8
instruments that can be used repeatedly, both capturing new entrants in the program and
establishing periodic follow-up interviews to use comparatively to assess impact and identify trends.
Monitoring Project Objectives and Anticipated Outcomes
10.  This section describes in more detail the anticipated specific objectives and outcomes of the
project and how they will be monitored. Each will be described in terms of the stakeholders to be
affected, the dimension observed, indicator to be monitored, data source, data collection method
and the frequency and timing of data-gathering.
11.  Reduce Heating Cost. The most tangible benefit of the project should be a decrease in
heating use and the reduction of heating costs to homeowners, individually and collectively, and to
school administrations. The indicator is the amount of heat obtained during the winter months,
shown in heating bills. The data can be obtained routinely from schools and from Homeowners'
associations, as well as a sample of homeowners in large buildings. Data should be gathered at the
beginning of involvement in the project, as part of the baseline interview, and collected quarterly
thereafter. Homeowner sampling should be strategic, to assess the relative impact on low floors
and high floors, and from exposed and relatively unexposed areas, if appropriate. The data should
be prepared for annual comparisons on a building-by-building basis, as well as on the basis of
location and household vs. Association changes, adjusted for tariff increases, as they occur, as well
as the relative severity of the weather.
12.  Strengthen Self-Management. The project will strengthen homeowners' associations directly,
by providing information, management advice and technical support, and indirectly by providing
the opportunity to fulfill maintenance and upgrading responsibilities. Monitoring will focus on the
homeowners' associations, based on the qualitative inputs of involved PCU staff, as well as
quantitative indicators. Through periodic contacts, PCU staff will chart changes in the structure
and function of associations, looking at patterns of membership on the association board (is
membership opening up?), communication patterns between the board and households (is the flow
of information back and forth between board members and households increasing in quantity and
quality?), increase or decrease of responsibilities (does the association have new responsibilities or
has it reduced its work load?), and levels of satisfaction (do homeowners have more confidence in
the board?). The number of indicators is expected to expand during early project stages and then
decrease, as some are found to be more robust than others. PCU staff will draft a brief annual
report on each association, as well as identify trends that emerge from a comparative analysis of
associations over time.
13.  Once an association takes a loan through the project, and the work is completed, the strength
of an association can be measured by two indicators: increasing investment--taking a second or
third loan; and enforcing cost recovery. On an annual basis, the Liaison Officer will report on the
number of associations that take a second loan and changes in the average time lapsed between first
and subsequent loans, both of which are indicators of the confidence and effectiveness of
associations; and the level of cost recovery achieved, which is an indicator of the strength of the
association. We would expect to see the number of multiple loans increase over time, the time
between loans decrease, and cost recovery levels increase.
14.  Increase Access to Technical Information. Participating banks, the Ministry of Construction
and Urban Development and the Homeowners' association Advisory Services will each prepare and
disseminate technical material that is intended to help associations make investment decisions and to



- 82 -                                   Annex 8
plan and implement the investment process. On an annual basis, each institution will provide data
to the Liaison Officer regarding the number of flyers, brochures, booklets and the like that it
produces, as well as the number it disseminates and patterns of dissemination. On the consumer
side, data will also be gathered regarding the extent to which publications reach associations and
households. Each association that expresses an interest in the program will be asked to complete a
Baseline Survey, one element of which will focus on the number and types of publications available
to the association. Similarly, sample households who will also be interviewed at the same time will
be asked about their familiarity with technical materials. These data will be reported on an annual
basis, in aggregate. In addition, a before-and-after comparison will be made within each
association, comparing the level of information available at first contact compared to the level upon
completion of the work, and identifying sources of the materials. The association and household
surveys are expected both to stimulate demand for technical materials and to indicate changes in
access to the materials over time.
15.  Reduce Transaction Costs. Improved procedures and increased access to information should
speed up three processes which are currently either very lengthy, uncertain or risky: deciding to
invest in improvements; obtaining the loan; and completing the work satisfactorily. In each case,
the focus is on the costs incurred by associations, either direct cost or indirect losses of time. The
prime indicators are the amount of time and direct cost required at three points in the process. The
Liaison Officer will request each association to record major events and provide data to answer
three questions:
(a)    how much time elapsed between the association's initial inquiry about the program and the
decision to proceed with a specific investment program?
(b)    how much time elapsed between the association's decision to invest and the bank's decision
to grant a loan, how many steps were required and what direct and indirect costs were
involved in going through the steps of the program?
(c)    how much time elapsed between approval of the loan and completion of the work?
16.  Data will be aggregated and reported on an annual basis to identify changing patterns in each
of the three discrete areas, as well as in the overall process.
17.  Establish a Client-Centered Orientation in Participating Institutions. If the project is
successful, homeowners' associations and other institutions will develop new perceptions and new
interaction patterns. Associations will see the other institutions (the Ministry, banks, consultants
and contractors) as partners and collaborators, rather than unapproachable or predatory
organizations; and the institutions will see the associations as clients whose interests and rights are
to be protected and respected, because of mutual interest. Data in this regard will relate primarily
to levels of satisfaction from the point of view of the associations. The initial Baseline Survey for
each participating association will assess perceptions regarding the responsiveness, effectiveness and
accessibility of each of the institutions. Subsequent Milestone Surveys, executed for each
association at points of making the decision, obtaining the loan and completing the work will also
assess satisfaction. A satisfaction profile will be developed for each association, which will be
aggregated and compared, to identify annual trends, as well as satisfaction levels with each
institution. A simple satisfaction scale will be developed to permit comparisons over time. These
data will be supplemented and embellished by qualitative data obtained in periodic inquiries by the
Liaison Officer.



- 83 -                                 Annex 8
18.  Increase Standardization. Transparency and Accountability. As part of their participation in
the project, institutions will be required to develop simple, clear procedures for completing their
tasks. The Ministry will establish clear, simple guidelines for participation; banks will prepare
standardized loan application forms that are clear, intelligible and self-explanatory; contractors will
prepare equally clear and simple proposals, cost estimates and accounting procedures. Each of
these institutions is also expected to improve the quality of their guidelines, applications, proposals
and other forms and formats, as they gain experience and obtain feedback. The PCU will maintain
contacts with each institution to provide feedback and record changes in procedures or forms.
These will be reported on an annual basis, indicating the numbers and types of modifications
introduced during the year. Follow-up surveys and qualitative inquiries by the PCU will document
changes in the amount of time required to fill in various forms and review proposals, for example,
as well as the perceived ease of doing so. This will be reported informally as ideas for
improvements emerge and more formally on an annual basis, with specific recommendations for
each participating institution.
19.  Increase Private Sector Contractor Demand and Ouality. Homeowners' associations are
expected to constitute a significant demand for contractors through the project, and their individual
and collective demands are expected to improve the quality of the work that is done. The principal
indicators of success are increased volume of work and increased levels of satisfaction. On an
annual basis, participating contractors will inform the PCU of the amount of work obtained through
the project. This information will be verified by associations and reported in an annual report that
compares the number of contractors involved and the volume of business over time. At the
completion of each job, associations and homeowners will be surveyed to determine their relative
satisfaction with the work that has been done, as well as to highlight problems that occurred and the
response of the contractors. This data will also be aggregated by the PCU, supplemented by
informal discussions and inquiries, and reported annually to determine trends and identify areas of
that need attention.
20.  Market-based Residential Readiustment. The privatization of housing in Lithuania has
resulted in a number of misalignments between family size and housing size and increasingly, as
energy prices have risen precipitously, growing disparities between heating costs and ability to pay.
Although associations and individuals have apparently helped each other overcome the impact of
such misalignments, the investments made by homeowners' associations through the project,
combined with strict cost-recovery requirements, may over-extend these informal buffering
mechanisms, making it necessary for some families to find more affordable housing. In order to
monitor the situation, and to prepare mitigation plans, if appropriate, a PCU Officer will keep track
of household movement and interview each household to ascertain reasons for moving, the causal
sequence, destination, and particular issues that arose in the decision to move as well as the process
of relocation and relative conditions in the new site. This issue will be reported annually,
identifying causes, procedures and concerns, as well as identifying promising areas of intervention,
if appropriate, to ease the transition.
21.  Increased Coordination Among Participating Institutions. Experience to date has
demonstrated how critical it is for participating institutions to coordinate their efforts and harmonize
their approaches in order to meet the needs of homeowners efficiently and effectively, as well as to
meet their own needs. Although the project implementation structure offers a mechanism to
facilitate coordination and harmonization, the issue will also be monitored more specifically on an
annual basis. Each participant will prepare an annual report that describes their coordination efforts
and identifies points in the interface between that institution and others that needs attention. Each



- 84-                                     Annex 8
institution (the Ministry, banks, contractors, homeowners advisory services, and the Association of
Homeowners' associations) will establish its own method for gathering ideas and reporting. At the
same time, on a semi-annual basis, the Liaison Officer will contact homeowners' associations to
identify weaknesses in coordination mechanisms and areas of slippage, as well as recommended
actions to be taken. This semi-annual report will provide feedback both to the project as a whole
and to participating institutions.
B. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Overall objectives:    (a)    Support and enable private initiative to improve residential energy
efficiency;
(b)    Support public initiative in improving energy efficiency in schools;
(c)    Support the implementation of Government policies with respect to
sustaining the privatization of housing, enabling increased private
initiative in housing maintenance in general.
Objectives                      Input Indicators           Output/Impact Indicators
Promoting and facilitating energy   Number of buildings assessed     * Number of buildings
efficiency rehabilitation of                                         rehabilitated
residential housing
Promoting private initiative in     Number of homeowners'            * Total amount of investments
housing and energy eMciency         associations advised / supported  undertaken by homeowners'
through the support of the                                           associations
organization of homeowners                                           * Energy saved
Supporting municipalities in the    Total amount disbursed to        * Number of pupils in
energy efriciency rehabilitation of  municipalities.                 rehabilitated schools
schools                                                              * Energy saved
Developing the use of private energy   Number of courses/seminars    * Number of consultants who
efficiency consultants              provided.                        completed training
Introducing the commercial banking   Total amount of lending to      * % of commercial risk which
sector to the concept of long-tern  homeowners' associations,        banks are willing to assume
lending for housing and housing     apartment owners and owners of   regarding lending to
improvement                         single family homes for energy   homeowners' associations
efficiency rehabilitation.
Assisting Government in redirecting   Study activities undertaken    * Relevant policy decisions
and focusing assistance programs for                                 taken / activities initiated
housing and residential heating    I



- 85 -                                       Annex 9
9.  SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision of the project is expected to require 25 staff-weeks during the first fiscal year of
implementation and 15 staff-weeks during each of the following three fiscal years. The schedule below
is in addition to regular review requirements for procurement actions, advisory services, and general
administration.
Approximate Dates              Activity              Expected Skill Requirements         Staff -
(month/year)                                                                         Weeks'
08 / 96          Project Startup            Task Manager                             13
Financial Management
Operations Specialist
Architect/Engineering
I _____________________                              Social  Scientist                               l
01 / 97          Supervision                Task Manager                             12
Procurement
Disbursement
Architect / Engineering
l _____________________  _______________________     Social    Scientist                             l
07 / 97          Supervision                Task Manager                             6
l _____________________  _______________________     (others   as   required)
02 / 98          Supervision                Task Manager                             9
Mid-term review           Economist
Financial Analyst
Architect / Engineering
Social Scientist
Procurement
08 / 98          Supervision                Task Manager                             6
. ______________________    (others  as  required)
02 / 99          Supervision                Task Manager                             9
(others as required)
08 / 99          Supervision                Task Manager                             6
(others as required)
02 / 00          Supervision                Task Manager                             4
(others as required)
08 /00           Project Completion         Task Manager                             5
Architect
Financial Analyst
Staff-weeks for IsRD staff only. Additional resources are expected to be obtained from consultant trust funds



- 86 -                                 Annex 10
10.  ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements *
(US$ millions)
Bank
Fiscal        Semester       Disbursement       Cumulative      Cumulation as
Year          Ending         in Semester         Amount         % of Total Loan
1997          12/31/96         0.30               0.30                 3
06/30/97         0.30              0.60                  6
1998          12/31/97         1.70               2.30                 23
06/30/98         1.00               3.30                33
1999          12/31/98         2.20               5.50                 55
06/30/99         1.00              6.50                 65
2000          12/31/99         2.50               9.00                 90
06/30/00         1.00              10.00                100
Based on estimated demand since the project is designed with a program approach.



- 87 -                               Annex 11
11. DETAILED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.  All civil works and consulting services to be financed with Bank loan funds will be procured
in accordance with the relevant Bank procurement guidelines. The Project Procurement Plan
(attached) details procurement packages, mode of procurement and schedules. Procurement of
bilateral or donor financed components of the project will follow the bilateral donor's procurement
procedures.
Rehabilitation and Renovation of Apartment Buildings and Apartments/Single Family Homes
2.  Procurement for each privately-owned multifamily building and single family home
participating in the project will be undertaken by the concerned homeowners' association (HOA) or
homeowner, according to the World Bank's guidelines for procurement for loans through financial
intermediaries to the private sector. The cost of civil works for individual contracts will mostly
range from approximately US$5,000 to US$150,000. They shall be procured under lump sum,
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified
contractors.
3.  The energy savings improvements for multifamily apartment buildings and apartments/single
family homes will be procured as civil works only; goods will be procured by contractors under the
civil works contracts. Such contracts may include: (a) supply and installation of equipment (heat
exchangers for heating system and domestic hot water, automatic control systems, temperature
control equipment such as pressure regulators, flow rate regulators, mechanical valves governed by
temperature sensors, water flow meters, balancing valves, circulating pumps, thermostatic radiator
valves, prefabricated substation equipment, etc.); (b) supply and installation of goods (windows,
construction materials such as roofing and insulation, etc.); and (c) installation and construction
works (e.g. tightening of windows, doors, sealing of wall joints, refurbishing of windows, doors,
insulation and renovation of roof or construction of new roof including pitched roof, insulation of
walls, fine tuning of heating system, etc.).
4.  The residential component is expected to cover approximately 200-300 multifamily apartment
buildings and single/dual family homes. This is expected to involve about 300-500 short term
single responsibility contracts for a total amount of about US$15.4 million. Sub-borrowers will
decide whether to assemble the work into one or more contract packages, e.g., by category of
work, such as mechanical systems, and major or minor building improvements. The contracts are
expected to take about 3 to 6 weeks for completion from the day of commencement of works,
however, some imported equipment and materials would have a maximum lead time of 4 weeks.
Construction of a new roof could take up to 2 months.
5.  On the basis of current experience in Lithuania, the expected contracts are deemed to be too
small and scattered both geographically and over time (4 years) to interest foreign contractors
unless they are already established in Lithuania, but international firms would not be precluded
from participation. As private sector entities, homeowners and homeowners' associations will
select contractors. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will in collaboration with the Ministry for
Construction and Urban Development (MCUD) provide sub-borrowers with a list of contractors
registered with MCUD under an existing contractor registration/certification process. The objective
of the list will be to maximize competition while protecting the consumer, and to ensure that new,
small firms satisfying predefined criteria will be given opportunities to compete for civil works
financed by the project. Contractors will be reviewed according to customary civil works standards



- 88 -                              Annex 11
regarding experience, technical and financial capability, payment terms and guarantees.
Homeowners and homeowners' associations will be able to obtain guidance from energy consultants
on the best procedures for their particular investments. The participating commercial banks will
review and approve: (a) the contractors selected by the homeowner or homeowners' association
prior to issuance of the written invitation to quote; and (b) the proposed decision to award contract,
prior to execution.
Rehabilitation and Renovation of Schools
6.  For the schools component, procurement of works and services for energy saving
improvements financed under the Bank loan for up to 20 schools in selected municipalities will be
undertaken by the respective municipality in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
The civil works (including equipment, goods and installation and construction services ) will be
similar to those detailed in paragraph 3 above for multi-family apartment buildings. Contracts
numbering 15 to 30 at a cost ranging from US$50,000 to US$400,000 will be awarded on the basis
of NCB and by using the Bank's Regional NCB Sample Bidding Documents for Small Works, as
modified with the Bank's approval. Municipalities will decide whether to assemble the work into
one or more contract packages, e.g., by category of work mentioned in paragraph 4 above. Works
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to successfully complete the contract. On the basis of current experience in Lithuania, these
contracts are deemed to be too small and scattered both geographically and over time (3 years) to
interest foreign contractors unless they are already established in Lithuania, but international firms
would not be precluded from participation.
7.  Each municipality will undertake its own procurement. A commission in each municipality
will advertise the tender, evaluate bids and make recommendation for award of contracts. Contract
awards will be made to the bidder substantially responsive to the bidding document and who offers
the lowest evaluated cost to the municipality. Municipal housing maintenance companies (about 24
such companies exist in Vilnius) cannot participate in the Bank-financed procurement as they are
not legally and financially autonomous and do not operate under commercial law.
8.  The Ministry of Economy has prepared a draft "Law on State Procurement" which will be
introduced in Parliament and possibly enacted into law in 1996. Present Government regulations
permit the use of the Bank's Guidelines and Standard Bidding Documents for public procurement
made with Bank financing.



- 89 -                                 Annex 11
Procurement Plan
Scheduling in US$'000
Component             Estimated  Estimated   Estimated
compon.  number of   contract
cost    contracts   amounts    Year I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Mode
(US$'000)
A. Civil Works
1. Apartment buildings   13,860.0   300-500    5 - 150   300.0  3,960.0  4,700.0  5,000.0   NS
see b
2. Single/dual family   1,540.0       300     2-10       125.0    550.0    745.0    120.0   NS
homes                                                                                      see b
3. Schools             2,100.0    15 - 30   30 - 400     325.0    809.0    966.0         -   NCB
B. Consulting
Services
Technical Assistance
1. Advice to HO/HOA      364.0          1                254.0                               see c
55.0     55.0
2. Assistance for        524.0          1                171.0                               see c
technical assessments                                              192.0    161.0
3. Technical             380.0          1                150.0                               see c
monitoring                                                         115.0    115.0
4. Government            140.0          1                 50.0      50.0                     see c
assistance study
5. Housing                50.0          2         25      25.0                               see c
maintenance study                                                   25.0
6. Social monitoring     332.0          1                 107.0                              see c
98.0    127.0
7. Public information    210.0          1                 50.0      80.0     80.0            see c
program
8. Training and          196.0          1                 96.0               50.0            see c
assistance to banks                                                 50.0
9. Training for           86.5          1                 86.5                               see c
consultants/contractors
10. Implementation       434.0          1                208.0                               see c
consultant to the PCU                                              113.0    113.0
(note a)
Other
Consulting services      200.0          6      10 - 50    100.0                              Bank
for school rehab.                                                  100.0                     guide-
lines
Totals                20,376.5                          1,897.5  6,247.0  7,112.0  5,120.0
note a: In addition, project costs include PCU recurrent costs of about $200,000, not included above.
note b: National shopping, i.e. lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations
obtained from three qualified contractors.
note c: Procurement according to donor procedures, as applicable.



- 90 -                                          Annex 12
12. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. FRAMEWORK FOR CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.   Economic analysis was carried out to examine the viability of individual investments and their
consequences for the economy as a whole. The main tangible benefit consists of energy savings.
Other tangible benefits are the improvement in the building stock, increased comfort and health for the
inhabitants, environmental improvements and intangibles as discussed above. For the economy as a
whole, tangible benefits will derive from resource savings, evaluated as the reduction in the economy's
consumption of natural gas, mazut and other fossil fuels that are imported.' For the individual
homeowners who invest in energy efficiency rehabilitation, benefits will derive from savings on their
heating bill, the amount of which will vary in size according to specific 'package' chosen by them.2
Table 1: Basic Characteristics of Investment 'Packages'; example for a large building
Investment                  total cost  cost/apart       energy saved          energy saved LT/year*     payback, years
LT        LT      % of consump.    kWh/y    financial    economic    financial  economic
Heat Meter                     5000        50            0             0             0             0        na         na
Temperature Control            11500      115          12.0       150250         10743         12020       1.07      0.96
Heat System Balancing          7920        79           2.0        25042          1791          2003       4.42      3.95
Pipe Insulation                9900        99           6.5        81546         5831           6524       1.70      1.52
Stair Case Improvement         6780        68           3.8        47994         3432           3840       1.98      1.77
Window Improvement            66080       661           9.9       123475         8828           9878       7.48      6.69
Basement Insulation           49595       496           6.1        76790         5490           6143      9.03       8.07
Window Change                367594      3676          20.5       256852         18365         20548     20.02      17.89
Roof Insulation               143840     1438           4.4        54801         3918           4384     36.71      32.81
Packages No.:          A      41100       411          22.5       281307        20113          22505      2.04       1.83
B     156775     1568          34.4       430707        30796          34457      5.09       4.55
C    602129      6021          44.7       559477        40003          44758      15.05     13.45
-: valued at 1995/1996 heat prices (see Table 4)
A= Heal Meter + Temperature Control + Heat System Balancing + Stair Case Improvement + Pipe Insulation; B= A+
Basement Insulation + Window Improvement;
C = A+ Basement Insulation + Roof Insulation + Window Change
2.   Which specific measures will be undertaken in any particular building will depend on the decision
of the respective homeowner(s) and therefore on their preferences and incomes. The analysis
presented here is based on technical assessments of 14 apartment buildings, one single-family home
and one school. For the purpose of the following analysis, three 'packages' were assumed (A, B, and
C) which combine various measures as follows: A= Heat Meter + Temperature Control + Heat
System  Balancing + Stair Case Improvement + Pipe Insulation; B= A+ Basement Insulation +
Window Improvement; C= A+ Basement Insulation + Roof Insulation + Window Change (see
examples in Table 1 and Table 2). These packages require, per apartment, investments of LT 350 to
I       Fuel savings resulting from investments under this project will not be large, since the total loan amount is relatively
small - corresponding to the pilot character of the project - and will result in energy efficiency rehabilitations for relatively
few buildings in Lithuania (approximately 250 apartment buildings and 12 schools).
2        Alternatively, higher comfort could be achieved with the same heat bill as before. In this case, savings will derive
from a reduction in the use of additional heating systems. About 16% of households in urban areas currently use additional
heaters such as electric heaters to complement the insufficient temperatures provided by the DH system (see Annex 1 for a
survey on consumer behavior and attitudes). With better insulation households will no longer have to use these devices.
resulting in (possibly even additional) energy savings.



- 91 -                                         Annex 12
LT 6,000 in large buildings (60-100 apartments) and LT 670 to LT 10,500 in small buildings (12-40
apartments). Rehabilitation measures in single-family homes will most likely be more expensive (e.g.
between LT 10,000 and 40,000). Further technical details can be found in Annex 3.
3.   About $13.9 million will be available to invest in energy conservation measures in apartment
buildings, all of them supplied by district heat (DH). A maximum of 10% of $15.4 million available
for the residential rehabilitation component can be lent to owners of single-family homes. For the
renovation of school buildings an amount of $2.3 million is allocated. It is assumed that the loan will
be disbursed within 4 years (1997-2000).
Table 2: Basic Characteristics of Investment 'Packages'; example for small building
Investment                  total cost  cost/apart      energy saved         energy saved LT/year*     payback. years
LT        LT     % of consump.    kWh/y    financial    economic    financial  economic
Heat Meter                       5000        156       0.0000            0         0              0        na        na
Temperature Control. incl.      12036        376       0.1000        45760      3272           3661      3.68      3.29
Circulating Pump
Heat System Balancing           13098        409       0.0107         4899       350            392     37.39     33.42
Heat Exchanger                   3540        111       0.0200         9152       654            732      5.41      4.84
New Doors                       14954        467       0.0707        32370      2314           2590      6.46      5.77
Window Improvement              44840       1401       0.2663       121862      8713           9749      5.15      4.60
Prefabricated Substation        24122        754       0.0994        45505      3254           3640      7.41      6.63
Thermost. Radiator Valves       25403        794       0.0282        12893       922           1031     27.56     24.63
Roof Renovation                 57159       1786       0.0156         7136       510            571    112.03    1(X).12
Packages No.:          A        33674       1052       0.1726        78990      5648           6319      5.96      5.33
B       93468       2921        0.4359       199467     14262         15957      6.55      5.86
C      179576       5612        0.4189       191688     13706         15335      13.10     11 71
*: valued at 1995/1996 heat prices (see Table 4)
A= Heat Meter + Temperature Control + Heat System Balancing + Heat Exchanger; B= A+ New Doors + Window
Improvement; C = Prefabricated Substation + Heat System Balancing + New Doors + Window Improvement +
Thermostatic Radiator Valves + Roof Renovation
4.   The project costs consist of the equipment for building renovation plus labor cost for installment.
Since investment decisions are made by individual homeowners and their associations the exact amount
and timing of investment cannot be determined with certainty. For the base case, it is assumed that
60% of households will opt for package A, 30% for package B and 10% for package C. With respect
to the timing of the investment, it is assumed that 6% of investment will take place in year 1, 27% in
year 2, 32 % in year 3, and 35 % in year 4. The exact shares of foreign and local components cannot
be determined ex ante. Most materials are now available in Lithuania, at lower prices than comparable
foreign materials. Prices of capital goods as well as heat tariffs are as of October 1995 (heating season
1995/1996). While prices of capital goods are assumed constant in real terms, heat tariffs are assumed
to increase to reach full cost-recovery level before the heating season 1997/1998 and to be constant in
real terms thereafter.
5.   Energy savings constitute the main tangible benefit and are the basis on which the economic
analysis has been conducted. As a consequence of their investment, homeowners will also benefit from
an increase in the value of their apartment. This increase would enter the calculation of the financial
rate of return as an additional benefit as far as the increase is not derived from the lower energy bill
but from lower maintenance cost and reduced occurrence of leaks and other damage that may arise due



- 92 -                                    Annex 12
to insufficient heating and insulation.3 Other benefits are increased comfort and health for the
inhabitants, environmental improvements and intangibles such as the stimulation of private initiative in
housing and maintenance in general, support for the private sector building industry and contributions
to the creation of a market for long-term loans. Neither those nor other, tangible or intangible
benefits, have been quantified for the analysis below as the rates of return that were calculated solely
on the basis of energy savings are already substantial.
(a)    Savingsfor the economy: In this project, energy savings are calculated as resource savings for
the economy as a whole. Energy efficiency improvements would translate into savings for the
economy primarily through reduced consumption of natural gas, mazut and other fossil fuels
that need not be imported. De facto, fuel savings resulting from investments under this project
will not be large, since the total loan amount is relatively small - corresponding to the pilot
character of the project - and will result in energy efficiency rehabilitation's for relatively few
buildings in Lithuainia (approximately 200 apartment buildings and 10-20 schools). Additional
energy savings will arise from a reduction in the use of additional heating systems which are
currently employed by about 16% of urban households in order to increase levels of comfort.
With better insulation households will no longer have to use these devices and will therefore be
able to save energy. Unfortunately, information on the magnitude of energy used by those
additional heating devices does not exist; therefore savings could not be quantified.
(b)    Savings for homeowners: For the individual homeowners investment in energy efficiency
rehabilitation will result in financial savings, the magnitude of which will vary in size
according to the specific 'packages'. After energy efficiency rehabilitations have been
undertaken, homeowners will pay less for the same comfort level. Alternatively, higher
comfort could be achieved with the same heat bill as before. Investment in energy efficiency
will also increase the market value of the apartment by lowering maintenance cost, reducing
the occurrence of leaks, and other damage due to insufficient heating and insulation. The
quantification of the increase in value has not been attempted here due to the thinness of the
real estate market in Lithuania.
Evaluation of Benefits
6.   Energy savings achieved through the proposed project have been calculated on the basis of a
reduction in (a) the cost of delivering energy due to falling demand, and (b) the heat billings received
by homeowners from their respective suppliers (see also para. 9 below).
(a)    The reduction in the costfor the delivery of heat has been valued on the basis of the variable
fuel cost of the district heating system, natural gas and mazut and on the basis of natural gas
prices for single-family homes. The border prices of these two fuels are very close to world
market prices, $90/1000m3 for gas and $96/ton for mazut.4 Taking into account conversion
efficiency, fuel mix in the district heating system and losses in the district heating transmission
and distribution system of about 25 percent, the average heat cost is $17.2 per gcal, equivalent
to LTO.08 per kWh (see Table 3). It should be noted that, in the long-term, when heat demand
decreases due to energy savings, not only variable fuel costs will decline, but also the need to
3      The quantification of the increase in value is difficult because real estate markets are only beginning to function in
Lithuania. It may be possible, however, to impute the value of a renovated apartment by taking into account its reduced
energy and maintenance expenditures.
4      See 'Republic of Lithuania - Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Project', World Bank Report No.14584 LT.
October 24. 1995.



- 93 -                                       Annex 12
rehabilitate heat generation plants, especially small HBOs. This has not been taken into
account in the analysis, but is dealt with in the sensitivity analysis as a higher value of heat.
For single-family homes heated directly with natural gas, the relevant opportunity cost is the
border price of natural gas (see row 2 in Table 5); for a long-term perspective, capital cost for
the rehabilitation of the distribution networks would have to be added.
Table 3: Calculation of the Economic Cost of Delivered Heat in the Lithuanian DH System
Parameter                                                      Unit                       Value
Natural gas                                                  $/lOOOm3                       90
Efficiency                                                  lOOOm3/gcal                   0.142
gas cost                                                       $/gcal                      12.78
gas share in heat production                                  percent                       60
Mazut                                                          $/ton                        96
Efficiency                                                    ton/gcal                    0.136
mazut cost                                                     $/gcal                      13.06
mazut share in heat production                                percent                       40
total heat cost                                                S/gcal                      12.89
Distribution Losses                                           percent                       25
IkWh delivered = x kWh produced                                  x                         1.33
Cost of delivered heat                                         $/gcal                      17.19
Cost of delivered heat                                       LT/kWh                        0.080
(b)     The reduction in the billing for heating is calculated separating between billings for apartment
buildings and schools and billings for single family homes. Apartment buildings and schools
are overwhelmingly connected to district heat. For the financial analysis, energy savings have
been valued with the applicable district heating tariff. Assuming a 60% level of cost recovery
in the 1995/96 heating season, and an increase in heat tariffs to the full cost level within the
next three years, will lead to heat tariffs as in the first two rows of Table 4. Since the
economic cost of delivered heat (third row) only includes variable elements for the reasons
stated above, it is below the financial, full cost tariff.
Table 4: Apartment Buildings and Schools: Heat Tariffs and Heat Cost for District Heat (LT/kWh)
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99      ...         2015
Financial Tariff, residential (apartments)  0.037   0.072     0.096     0.119         ...        0.119
Financial Tariff, non-residential (schools)  0.034  0.065     0.087     0.108         ...        0.108
Economic Cost of Delivered Heat*     0.080     0.080     0.080     0.080         ...        0.080
* calculated as in Table 3.
Single-family homes in Lithuania use various fuels: in Vilnius and Kaunas, heating with natural
gas has the biggest market share with about 40%. Although households may use other fuels
such as electricity or fuelwood at the same time, for the purpose of this analysis, heat savings
of single-family homeowners were valued at natural gas cost. For the financial analysis, it is
based on the tariff of LT 0.05/kWh. Currently, this does not cover the distribution cost. As
with district heat, it is assumed that a full cost tariff, equal to 0.067 LT/kWh, will be charged
starting in 1998 (see Table 5).
Table 5: Single-family homes: Residential Natural Gas Tariff and Economic Cost
1995/96     1996/97   1997/98    1998/99       ...   2015
Financial Tariff, residential    0.05*        0.056     0.062       0.0668**     ...   0.0668
Economic Cost of Gas             0.036**      0.036     0.036       0.036        ...   0.036
* based on a tariff of $125/1000m3; ** based on full cost (border price + transmission + distribution cost) of
$ 167/1000m3



- 94 -                                    Annex 12
Rates of Return
7.   For the purpose of assessing the profitability of energy efficiency rehabilitation investments, 14
apartment buildings, one single-family home and one school were carefully assessed. For each
building the measures proposed by the respective homeowners' association or the owners were
evaluated and ranked according to their payback.
8.   Net benefits have been calculated comparing cash flows with and without the project. For the
financial analysis it is assumed that district heating tariffs will increase to the expected cost recovery
level of LT 0. 119/kWh from the current level of LT 0.072/kWh within the next three years, resulting
in rising costs to the individual household (see Table 4). The same assumption was made for the case
of the single-family; prices for natural gas are assumed to be charged at full cost recovery level of LT
0.0668 by 1998 (see Table 5). For the economic analysis, a VAT of 18% was deducted from the cost
of works and goods. Import duties ranging between 10% and 15% were not included. Energy savings
for the economy were valued with the opportunity costs of energy, primarily natural gas and mazut for
the generation of district heat and natural gas for heating of single-family homes (see para. 6 (a)
above).
Table 6: Weights of Apartment Buildings and ERRs
Building Number     Size       Weights according to represenhativity    Economic Rates of Return - Base Case
I             large                    1.09                                 56
2             small                    10.93                                30
3             small                    5.46                                 41
4             small                    1.82                                 23
5*            large                    6.38                                 49
6**           large                    5.46                                 51
7***          small                    14.57                                19
8             large                    0.55                                 15
9             large                    14.57                                56
10           large                     6.38                                24
11           large                     6.38                                 17
12           small                     5.46                                 15
13           small                     6.38                                 10
14           small                    14.57                                 1
*: identical building type as 10, 11, 1; ** identical building type as 12; *** identical building type as 14
9.   For each building type, investments were grouped into packages A, B, and C and Rates of Return
(RRs) were calculated for "mixed" packages. The economic RRs calculated for rehabilitation measures
in the various buildings vary according to building in a range from 2% to 56%, given the above stated
assumptions. The RRs for the entire investment for energy efficiency rehabilitations in apartment
buildings were computed as a weighted average of the individual building type RRs (see Table 6 for
the weightings).
10.   For the calculation of the overall project RRs, the average RRs of the three investment
components were weighted, according to the allocation of project funds (see Table 2.1 in Section 2).
Quantifying only the expected energy savings results, under the stated assumptions, results in a
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for the whole project of 31.2% and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
for the whole project of 25.9%. The difference between the economic rate of return and the financial rate
of return is very small since the economic valuation captures only savings in variable fuel costs. Only in the
long-terrn or with a considerable bigger investment would savings in other variable costs and in capital cost
materialize. Those long-term effects as well as the demonstration effect associated with the activities



-95-                                     Annex 12
financed by the project, and the associated externalities (see para 1.28 in Section 1), are not taken into
account here.
Table 7: Base Case*: Project FRR and ERR
Share       Base Case* FRR         Base Case* ERR
apartment buildings, average RR        78.3               33.2                 27.7
single-family homes                     8.7               15.5                  7.7
school                                  13.0              29.7                 27.2
Total Project                           100               31.2                 25.9
* The assumptions for the Base Case are: Equipment cost and energy savings according to technical assessments, heat tariffs
to reach full cost recovery level by the end of 1997, and equipment quantity according to assumptions in para. 2
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
11.  The project risks taken into account in the sensitivity analysis include: (a) heat tariffs; (b)
magnitude of energy savings; (c) cost for labor and materials; and (d) implementation risks. The
Government plans to increase the tariffs to full cost recovery level by the end of 1997. If this level is
not reached or later eroded by inflation, investment payback time and financial rate of return (FRR)
will be negatively affected, whereas the economic rate of return (ERR) will remain unchanged as
resource cas, and not heat tariffs, are the basis for the calcuation of savings to the economy (see Tables
8 and 9). The magnituted of savings may be higher or lower than envisaged, depending on the types
of investments undertaken by homeowners. The exact composition of the investment packages is
uncertain and can only be confirmed during project implementation. The choice of any specific
investment package will determine the investment cost as well as the resulting energy savings. The
magnitude of savings may also be higher or lower than envisaged as, while the design of buildings is
more or less uniform and design values are well known, in reality building materials and construction
are not always according to design. Cost for labor and materials may be different to current estimates
since building renovation, especially with a view towards improving energy efficiency, is a novelty in
Eastern Europe and, therefore, cost estimates for local materials and skilled local labor are uncertain.
Finally, the behavior of inhabitants has a big impact on the ultimate realization of energy savings.
Compared to the current situation with some apartments heated at below normal heat levels, the
inhabitants of a renovated building may decide to increase temperatures rather than save energy. All
of these factors may result in achieving less or more savings than assumed in the analysis and could
negatively impact on the project's rate of return.
12.  Overall, Rates of Return generated by the project remain well above the 15% threshold for most
of the simulated changes in parameters (for results of the sensitivity analysis, see Tables 8 and 9). An
increase in equipment cost does not appear to affect the project's viability as much as decreases in
energy savings: A cost increase of 50% would decrease total project returns (ERR) from 26% to 15%.
If actual energy savings were below the originally assumed level (50% less) then project returns (ERR)
drop to only 10%. If households would decide to invest in more expensive packages, including
measures with a longer payback time, the rates of return would also be reduced.
(a)    Apartment buildings: As can be seen from Tables 8 and 9, an increase in equipment cost of
20% will decrease rates of return to 25%  and 20% for FRR and ERR, respectively. If heat
tariffs were to remain fixed, and therfore not to rise to full cost recovery, this would reduce
the FRR significantly but still leave it at 18%. Lower than expected energy savings would
have the most dramatic effect on the viability of the project. If energy savings were 50%



- 96 -                                  Annex 12
lower than expected, FRR and ERR would be reduced to 13% and 10%, respectively. If
households would decide to invest in more expensive packages, including measures with a
longer payback time, rates of return would also be reduced. E.g. if only packages C were
chosen, the rates of return would drop to 9% for the FRR and 5% for the ERR. The results of
the sensitivity analysis for the rehabilitation of schools are similar to those presented for the
apartment buildings.
(b)    Single-family homes: Rehabilitation investment in these small buildings is both more expensive
and less profitable than in bigger apartment buildings and schools. The type of rehabilitation
investment and the resulting energy savings depend critically on the state of the efficiency of
the existing heat generation equipment. If the boiler has a low efficiency (as in this case),
rehabilitation measures have higher returns than in the case of a higher efficiency boiler. Rates
of return are much lower than the project average under all scenarios. The assessment of the
scope for energy savings in each individual building - which is to be part of every investment
proposal - is therefore of particular importance for single-family homes. Unless it can be
demonstrated that residential energy efficiency improvements will result in energy savings
significantly higher than assumed for this analysis, the share of investments in single-family
homes should not exceed 10% of the total lending volume.
13.  Iniclusion of long-term resource cost savings: If, in the long-term, rehabilitation in buildings
would result in substantial energy savings, this would have an impact on resource savings for the
economy. Variable cost savings other than fuel could be realized (e.g., O&M, pumping, water
treatment), and both district heating and natural gas networks would need less rehabilitation and
replacement investment, and fewer heat generation plants would have to be rehabilitated. This would
increase the value of energy savings by about 20% for buildings heated with district heat and about
40% for natural gas, resulting in economic cost of delivered heat and gas, respectively, of 0.1 LT/kWh
and 0.067 LT/kWh. This, in turn, would significantly increase the economic rates of return, from an
average of 26% to 32%. Especially the single-family home component would benefit more than
doubling to 14%, compared to the base case.
Table 8-a: Sensit vity Analysis: Weighted Financial Rates of Return
Share   Base   cost   cost   svgs   svgs   svgs  no heat  40%
Case   +20%   +50%   -25%   -50%   -75%   meter  roofins
apartment buildings,       0.783   0.332  0.271   0.207  0.244   0.149  0.050   0.392   0.331
average RR
single-family homes,       0.087   0.155   0.120 0.0080  0.110   0.050  -0.030      na  0.160
average RR
school                     0.130   0.297   0.240   0.180  0.220   0.130  0.020      na  0.300
FRR                        1.000  0.312   0.254  0.192   0.229   0.138   0.039  0.392   0.312



- 97 -                                Annex 12
Table 8-b: Sensitivity An lysis: Weighted Financial Rates of Return
Share   Base  60% cost heat cost heat cost diff.pack: diff.pack: diff.pack:
Case  recov.   -20%    +20%   only A   only B   only C
apartment buildings,      0.783  0.332    0.189    0.330    0.330   0.437    0.246    0.095
average RR
single-family homes       0.087  0.115    0.120   0.160   0.160   0.170   0.150   0.060
school                    0.130  0.297   0.170   0.290   0.290   0.350    0.250   0.070
FRR                       1.000  0.312    0.180   0.310    0.310    0.403    0.239    0.089
Table 9-a: Sensitivity Ana lysis: Weighted Economic Rates of Return
Share   Base   cost   cost   svgs   svgs   svgs  no heat  40%
Case  +20%   +50%   -25%   -50%   -75%   meter  roofins
apartment buildings,      0.783  0.277  0.223  0.167  0.198  0.111  0.023  0.335   0.279
average RR
single-family homes       0.087  0.077  0.050  0.020  0.040  0.030        na     na  0.080
school                    0.130  0.272  0.220  0.160  0.200  0.110  0.010  0.290         na
ERR                       1.000  0.259  0.207  0.153  0.184  0.104  0.020  0.300  0.225
Table 9-b: Sensitivity An lysis: Weighted Economic Rates of Return
Share   Base  60% cost heat cost heat cost diff.pack: diff.pack: diff.pack:
Case  recov.   -20%    +20%    only A   only B   only C
apartment buildings,      0.783  0.277   0.279    0.212    0.343    0.389    0.193    0.062
average RR
single-family homes       0.087  0.077    0.080    0.040   0.200    0.090    0.070    0.000
school                    0.130  0.272    0.270    0.210   0.330    0.330    0.230    0.050
ERR                       1.000  0.259    0.260    0.196    0.329    0.356    0.187    0.055



- 98 -                                      Annex 13
13. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
I    The Bank has determined that this project is a category "B" project for purposes of
environmental analysis. As a category "B" project, a limited analysis of specific environmental
impacts is required, but not a full environmental impact assessment (EIA). The project will finance
energy efficiency improvements for existing buildings only, and will therefore not involve new
construction except for the installation of new roofs, mechanical equipment and, in possibly a few
cases, new external wall insulation. No changes in land use, increased ground cover, alteration of
existing land form, vegetation or water systems, and no increases in residential density, will be
supported by the project. The Bank's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook' does not cover
environmental assessment of this situation, except indirectly insofar as (a) public health and safety
issues are present in any project involving construction. and (b) disposal of construction debris.
2.   Authority in Lithuania for environmental assessment of industrial and non-industrial
construction projects is with the Ministry of Environment's Division for Environmental Impact
Assessment Control. Procedures of this office give it the authority to review the overall project, but
will not examine each sub-project individually. No formal environmental impact assessment (EIA)
is required under Lithuanian law for this project. Discussions indicate that this office welcomes the
project for its significant environmental benefits, and anticipates no negative impacts. According to
the Chief of the Division, their primary interest in the project will be to help publicize it in order to
broaden its impact as much as possible.
Environmental Benefits
3.      The environmental benefits of the project include: (a) reducing waste of non-renewable fuel
resources, particularly of fossil fuels, but also of nuclear-generated electric energy currently used to
supplement space heating; (b) a concomitant reduction in air pollutants'; and c) improving public
health by improving the control of residential ambient air and domestic hot water temperatures and
supply (including overheating), and reducing interior drafts and condensation. In addition, public
information/education, periodic energy audits, and homeowner association participation are
expected to help rationalize consumer behavior with regard to energy conservation and thereby
enhance long-term sustainability.
Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts
4.   The Bank has identified potentially hazardous building materials as the only environmental
issue needing to be addressed. This risk has two aspects: (a) the potential for disturbing hazardous
materials during the course of renovating existing buildings and the need for their safe handling and
disposal, and (b) the potential for improper use of new hazardous building materials. In this
EnvironmentalAssessmenr Sourcebook, 1991: Vol. II.
2       The pilot nature of the project and its resulting limited scale mean that pollutant reduction will be very limited. It
is the sustained application of energy conservation measures, in which this project is a first step--and the matching
pollutant reduction--that can lead in the longer term to measurable reductions. Atmospheric emissions reductions will
include nitrogen oxides (NO.), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and carbon dioxide (CD2), from reduced consumption of natural gas
and fuel oil. A lower demand for supplemental space heating will reduce the use of electric space heaters, which in turn
will reduce demand for electric power, and pollutant/safety issues associated with generation. It also reduces the public
safety hazards associated with the use of ovens and stoves for supplemental space heating.



- 99 -                                   Annex 13
regard, the Bank's and Government's primary concern involves asbestos insulation found on
existing piping in some older buildings. According to the Lithuanian State Public Health
("Hygiene") Center (PHC), lead-based paint is not a concern since its use has been restricted to
exterior, primarily marine, applications for several decades, and is not listed as a public health
problem by Lithuanian authorities. Mitigation of asbestos risk is discussed below.
5.   Lithuanian law provides for the certification of all building materials. Testing and certification
is the responsibility primarily of the PHC, but also includes government agencies for certain
specialized testing, suchi as fire hazard. Without certification, materials cannot be imported,
produced or transported in Lithuania.
6.  Indoor environmliental changes are not considered to be risks requiring mitigation. Where
existing (usually excessive) air infiltration is to be reduced through energy-saving measures,
technical specifications will ensure the possibility of ventilation adequate to maintain indoor air
quality (one-half to one air changes per hour). Disruption due to construction work will be
controlled by the owners and their consultants, as they will have client control over the contractor.
Local officers of the State Labor Inspectorate have the authority to oversee construction works on
behalf of laborers.
Asbestos
7.   Because of Lithuania's established certification program, which adequately covers the use of
potentially hazardous materials, the installation of new materials under the project will not present
hazard risks. The use of asbestos has been strictly regulated since 1993, and at present is restricted
under Lithuanian law to use in the manufacture of painted cement-asbestos roofing tiles and
underground water and drainage piping and wire conduits. According to Lithuanian public and
occupational health authorities, however, asbestos may be encountered in the form of pipe
insulation in older buildings. Site inspections by the project team confirm this. Risks are therefore
limited to the disturbance of existing asbestos that might require disposal when building heating
equipment is upgraded. Health risks encountered because of disturbed asbestos are considered to be
restricted primarily to construction workers. With proper handling and disposal, danger to building
tenants and the general public is not expected.
Plan for Asbestos Risk Mitigation
8.   Based on the potential risks outlined above, the project team has determined that a two-step
environmental risk mitigation procedure is required for the project to address asbestos pipe
insulation encountered in rehabilitation works financed under the project, namely identification and
handlinig and disposal.
9.  Identification of asbestos in the project will be effected through a process of certification by
owners' consultants, backed up by district labor inspection offices. Under this procedure, the
consultant will be required to certify the absence or presence of asbestos in each project; local
inspectors from the State Labor Inspectorate will support the consultants when there is doubt.
10.  Handlinig and disposal: Lithuania's Occupational Safety and Health regulations are in
transition and procedures covering asbestos handling have not yet been drafted. The only asbestos
procedures in place in the country at this time are those being used by district heating companies,
and are based on former Soviet norms. These have been reviewed and found to be adequate to meet



- 100 -                                 Annex 13
mitigationi requirements for handling and disposal. Where asbestos is certified to be present, the
respective contractor will be required through the civil works contract with the client to submit a
plan for handling and disposal of asbestos. The contractor's plan must be approved by the client,
based on Guidance will be provided by the Labor Inspectorate or the Municipal Center for Public
Health, as required. Institutional arrangements for this mitigation plan, including evaluation criteria
and methods to be applied during project supervision, will be finalized at Negotiations. Lithuanian
national norms and Public Health and Occupational Safety and Health procedures for asbestos
handlinig are being developed by a Government task force, and are expected to be established by
1997.



IBRD 261 77
To Sald.,.                             To RQo     L A T V I A                                                                             IR   67
To Rqgc                                                            KILOMETERS
Nico                                                                                                                                                    IIIMzeikioi  N '   ~J1t-f-  0   'o   20  30  40  50
To                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jonitkis/0                                                                1       20     30
LIeP-10                          /                                Jonisis;                    VXBirzoi                                                         MILES
Sec   /P3Io1                                                                                                                 P nd/l)s
S*S   {p: z <  :   _ * 7;               =      4  iAAU~~~        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~LIAJ              adl          _
tgtringa     (     Plunge \ ouop
UA   \             v                   /        39W\ ~~~~~~~~~~       ~~                  ~~~~~Radvilitkis  ,\                        To 0..gI;-plS    {. h
KLAIPEDA      _,G!rqzda                                          / aa k.
-    Nemwias  '.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Tauruge 1/~~~~~~_Anl&a
p \ßuta                 >,       />              Rseinici                                    -                                                        o
11           --, I                     N- ,             Preng 
Nemunas  TIourage ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                      RA  AES               LVAIN
' Deha <. \< TaurX Kedinioi+/ ~~~~~~~~~~Ukmnerge,</  
'   Reserve,                                                                                                             \     2                     S         C           I METEt
Kursiu 't,>__   L                               Jurbarkas                                                                                                   RIVERS-300
Lagoon~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~               ~~~~~                                          \ -'orn =:                                                     MAIN ROADS                   50 oavy 
To KoliirrodTioi                                                           -                                                                                               0
\~~~~~~~~UA KAUNAadoidrys                                \                 , 
F E D E RAT I O N                            i 2                     7t   )\L~ToVPOLAND                                                           L I T H U A N I A
-s'rs               *,4___ >>               ,/    ~~~~~~~           ~         ~        ~~~~~Prienoi,     7      
~~_01~^                          .)        Mariam,oolg__-~~                 7                     t7   M                    rmlaswk     I@   NATIONAL CAPITAL
POLAND                BEL,RUS BINLAND                                                                                 E L   A  R    u/  s g   /   !  |     URBAN   AREAS - R A AV I
RUSSIAN      <              _      -       -      '       >             /       1      5             1            g             1           \           M RIVERS  {   300
SWEDEN   ~~  '~   f  *"I-    FED.                        t-                                        _                          ;                         TRUNK ROADS                  150
M"iLATVIA\,                              /                                                                                                                          !\_ r   \ ~ / 8  50
|---'    ffi ='\   To Susolb       %                      8// ~~~~~~~~~~--Voreint   ) Obo        ,     J                MAIN ROADS0
: 2'.5 - g I t ~~~~~~~~P    O L A  N  D                                                                   TO ,R / o d.,                          - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
z - ~~~~~~ , \f_ _ | (: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dr'uskininka (3 i .
POLAND                   BELARUS                                     r    > ur,wBE LA RU S
) _ {' \ , 119~









IMAGING
Report No:      15397 LT
TYpe: SAR



