DO Iof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rpt No.. 9154
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TCWNS ITMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2343-BR)
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Ti dom.t has a redrkitd dlisbutlo. and may be ud by redcpkft ony in the perorncew of
dtir official dutie  Its cootnts may mt otherwise be db*ioed witKh  Wold Bbk ajthrbsado.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANESTADO   -  Banco do Estado do Parana (Parana State Bank)
BNH         -  Banco Nacional de Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEF         -  Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
FAMEPAR     -  Fundacao de Assistencia aos Municipios do Parana (Parana
Municipal Assistance Foundation)
FDU          -  Fundo para Desenvolvimento Urbano (Parana Urban Development
Fund)
1CM         -  Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias (Value Added Sales Tax)
IPARDES     -  Instituto Paranaense de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(Pa-ana Institute of Economic and Social Development)
ITBI        -  Imposto sobre a Transmissao de Bens Imoveis (Property Transfer
Tax)
SEPL        -  Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento (Parana Planning
Secretariat)
UAT/PRAM    -  Project Management Unit



FOR OFFCA U1 ONLY
THE WORLD SANKF
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olce ni Dectw-GwaI
Opwatww* Ivkiuatonn
November 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil -
Parana Market Towns Improvement Project
(Loan 2343-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Parana Market Towns Improvement Project (Loan
2343-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZ IL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN Z343-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ................................................    i
Evaluation Summary  .............          .......................  ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  -                1
Project Identity .                      .                      1
Background . .                                                 1
Project Objectives and Description  .............              2
Project Design and Organization  .............                 3
Project Implementation           ................. .           4
Project Results
Project Objectives  .........................    5
Impact of the Project ......... .............    6
Project Sustainability  ..............7...........    7
Bank Performance  ...............................    7
Borrower Performance ...............                           8
Project Relationship ...............9 
Consulting Services  ............................   10
Project  locumentation and Data ....... ...........    10
PART II  COMMENTS BY THE BORROWER ................  11
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................  17
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ..............  17
Project Timetable  ..............................   18
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements 19
Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursements 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Implementation ......................  20
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs ......................,.,.21
Project Financing ..........        ........... 22
Project Results
Direct Benefits ........         ............. 23
Economic Impact .......        .............. 24
Status of Covenants .........        ............  25
Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs ......          ............... 28
Missions ..................... 29
ANNEXES
Annex 1 .........................................  30



i
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2343-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Parana Market
Towns Improvement Project in Brazi;, for which Loan 2343-dR in the amount of
US$52.7 million was approved on August 23, 1983. The loan was closed on December
31, 1988, one year behind schedule. The amount of US$773,077.96 was cancelled
as of July 27, 1989, on which date the last disbursement was made.
TLhe PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's mission of
December, 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan Agreement; the Project Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2343-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
Project objectives were to (i) develop an alternative system of long-
term borrowing for municipalities, as a first step towards emancipating the more
viable communities from their dependence on state and federal transfers;  (ii)
introduce systematic criteria for the selection of subprojects and for the
allocation of investment resources to different sized towns and different
subregions; (iii) promote, develop, and apply measures for recovering investment
costs by recipient municipalities, rewarding lo.al initiatives and intensified
efforts in this respect; (iv) improve tU" standards of living of the population
of small towns, through the provision of -ban infrastructure and services, and
the enhancement of their potential for economic growth.
Implementation Experience
Except for the lack of (i) subregional differentiation for the
allocation of grant funds; (ii) timely availability of counterpart funds; and,
(iii) an institutional development program, as part of the technical assistance
component, project implementation was good.   Despite these variances between
planned and actual project implementation (see Para. 11, Part I, for a detailed
discussion), the project can be considered a success in the context of the 3ark's
urban portfolio in Brazil.   It represented Brazil's  first attempt to plan
infrastructure and service investments in small towns on the basis of a
comprehensive spatial strategy at the state level.   Because the project was
conceived as one that would improve the ongoing State's municipal capital
improvement program by `.ncreasing its scope and introducing clear criteria for
allocation of funds to parLiCipating municipalities, it received broad support
from loca] authorities and communities at large.  The project's consistency with
the decentralization policies of the then newly elected State Governr,ient, and
with the implementation capabilities of the State and Municipalities was an
important factor cont7:ibuting to its success (see Section D in Part III for
statistical information on prciect implementation).
Results
In  general,  resullts  are  considered  satisfactory.    At  project
completion,  all 299 participating municipalities had become subborrowers  as
opposed to 150 estimated at appraisal.   A total of 3,496 subprojects were
financed under the project, with an estimated 40,000 direct jobs generated during
its implementation period.  Although there was a reduction in the total cost of
the project, most physical targets were exceeded, as shown in Section F, Part
III.   Institutionally,  the project was  responsible for improvements  in the
quality of state-municipal relations insofar as state funding was transformed
from a mechanism of ad hoc patronage to formula-driven allocations to which
municipalities were entitled and within which investments could be planned by



iii
them.   It was also responsible for improvements in the quality of relations
between local authorities and their communities insofar as investment priorities
and the need to implement cost recovery measures (so as to allow for repayment
of subloans) were discussed with the local communities. These and other results
ir. terms of the project's impact on the physical and social environments are
discussed in Para. 14-17, Part I.
Sustainability
Under the subsidiary ptoject agreement between the State and
municipalities, the latter are required to properly operate and maintain all
infrastructure and facilities financed under the project, throughout their useful
life. Also, the satisfactory standards of operation and maintenance of municipal
infrastructure and community facilities in Parana, as evidenced by the many
facilities completed during project implementation, should leave no reason to
believe that the sustainability of project's benefits are at risk.  However, the
financial crisis facing Brazil's public sector may become a risk factor in
sustaining such benefl.ts to the extent that it would adversely affect the
municipalities' ability to finance recurrent costs.
The creation  of the FDU  (Parana's Urban Development  Fund),  in
December of 1988, will allow not only for preservation of the institutional
improvements attained under the project, but to advance them further. The FDU
is capitalized with the repayments of this project's subloans, state
contributions and a new Bank loan of US$100 million (Loan 3100-BR) approved  n
June, 1989.  Collection of subloan payments has not been and should not be a
problem, since BANESTADO is legally capable of retaining ICM transfers as
collateral. At the completion of the second Bank-finaaced project, the State
should not need further Bank assistance, given that the FDU should have enougn
capital (over US$150 million) to become a permanent and reliable source of
financing for municipal investments in Parana.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main lessons of experience can be summarized in three points.
First, responsibility for overall project management should not be assigned to
the team responsible for supervising and assisting project implementation (such
as FAMEPAR in this case). Second, allocation of resources among municipalities
should, as far as possible, be based on simple criteria which can be easily
assimilated both technically (by project management) and politically (by state
and municipal authorities). Third, the strengthening of institutional capacity
of all parts involved in the implementation of municipal development projects
is paramount.   And, as such, both the Bank and the Borrower should attach a
higher value to the implementation of technical assistance components. These
lessons are discussed in further detail in Sections H and I, Part I.



BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2343-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT RE"TIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity
- Project Name: Parana Market Towns Improvement Project
- Loan No.:       2343-BR
- RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department I
- Counti          Brazil
- Sector:         Urban Development
B. Project Background
1.           During the 1970s the economic performance of the State of Parana
was impressive.   Despite low harvest years,  agricultural output expanded at
nearly 10% per annum in real terms. Rapid development of modern agro-industry
and manufacturing led to average growth rates of over 19Z per year in these
sectors, and to more than 12% in the commerce and service sectors. With only
6.4% of Brazil's population and 2.32 of its land area, Parana accounted for 25Z
of the country's exports, over 30Z of its grain harvest and 17Z of its for3ign
exchange earnings. The State's taxable income had more than tripled (344Z) over
the decade. As a result, ParanA was one of the few states of Brazil which could
sustain a certain level of direct investment (about 102 of its yearly budget)
with a low ratio of debt service to total revenues (around 8-9 per cent) and
limited dependence on Federal transfers and credit operations, which accounted
for 13Z and 14% of total revenues, respectively. The comments in this section
are taken from or based on the conclusions of the Staff Appraisal Report No.
4403a-BR of May 4, 1983, where more detailed data and information may be found.
2.           However,  ParanA's  economic  success was not accomplished without
social costs. Parana typified a situation in which rapid economic development
was accompanied by severe tensions and relative gaps in social welfare.   The
1980 Census showed that an intensive process of urbanization had taken place,
with the population in cities passing from 36.1 to 58.62 of the total (an
increase of nearly 6Z per year while the rural population had diminished by 3.3%
per annum). The rural exodus affected all parts of the State but peaked in the
fast modernizing northern and western regions, where the mechanization of
agriculture and the conversion to less labor-intensive crops eliminated large
numbers  of  seasonal  workers,  share-croppers,  landless  farmers  and  small
producers. This gave rise to a new category of urban-rural workers (the boias
frias  or,  literally,  'cold  meals"),  who moved  to  the  fringes  of  cities,
subsisting on casual emplovment. The dramatic changes in the agricultural market



2
also affected the traditional,  family-structured producers of Parana.  These
small land owners were accustomed to raising a variety of crops with conventional
methods and to selling their surplus through an informal network.   Many were
induced to sell their farms (76,000 during the period 1970-75), because the
absorption of credit and new technologies has obvious limitations below a certain
farm size (say 20 ha).
3.          In addition  to this  rapid pace of urbanization,  the  financial
conditions of municipalities posed a difficult situatio".   Parana's smaller
municipalities -- those with an urban population below 50,000 inhabitants --
raised less than ZOZ of their revenues directly.   On average, they received
another 33% of their revenues from the State as their share of the value added
(ICM) and property transfer (ITBI) taxes. Another 282 consisted of shares of
earmarked federal tax levied by the Federal Government.   The balance was made
up by a small amount of direct borrowing (3%) and special ad hoc State transfers.
The State-collected value added tax (ICM) tends to favor large municipalities,
since the largest shares are returned to places where the produce is sold and
processed rather than harvested. This redistribution pattern reinforces growth
and dynamism in the large urban areas of Parana. An analysis of outlays of the
smaller municipilitbpq showed that recurrent expenditures accounted for 71Z and
investment outiays accounted for approximately 24Z of total budgets, while
capital transfers accounted for the remainder.  Therefore, it wal clear that the
;;nailer muci  alities did not have the means to appropriately deal with and
would not be able to respond etfectively to demands created by the urbanization
process that was taking place in Parana. Large municipalities were relatively
better off in terms of investment capacity, since they enjoyed large return   conm
the tax-sharing system, benefited from special federal and state allocations,
and had access to long-term credit schemes for urban development projects.
4.          In 1981,  following  a study  that was  carried  out  to determine
municipal   investment   requirements   from  a  standard  list  of  municipal
infrastructure and facilities, the State launched a special capital improvement
program  (the  Mun{cipal  Capital  Improvement  Program)  to  offset  existing
distortions in the distribution of shared fiscal revenues to those municipalities
with relatively less investment capacity. The basic justification of the program
was that the State, by returning to the municipalities a larger share of their
fiscal contributions in the form of badly needed investment capital, would enable
them to use their own resources for operating and maintaining essential services
such as rural road rehabilitation and primary education.   Program funds were
therefore transferred without a repayment obligation, and local contributions
for increasing the scope of investments were optional. Despite the fact that
the  State  had  not  enforced  direct  recovery  of  subproject  costs  by  the
municipalities, leaving this aspect to the initiative of local city councils,
the experience in this respect has been satisfactory for infrastructure and
equipment c..tnponents.
C.  Project Objectives and Description
5.          The overall objective of the project was to provide better access
to public services for an estimated 4.9 million people who lived in the 287
eligible municinalities and constituted over half of the State's population,



3
And  help  to  adjust  standards  of  living  to  their  productive  and  fiscal
contributions to the economy, as indicated by the agricultural jutput of thesp
municipalities. The more specific objectives of the project were to:
(a)  develop  an  alternative   system  of  long-term  borrowing   for
municipalities, as a first step towards emancipating the more viable
communities from their present dependence on state and federal
transfers;
(b)  introdice systematic criteria for the selection of subprojects and
for the allocation of investment resources to different sized towns
ani different subregions;
(c)  promote, develop, and apply recovery of investment costs by recipient
municipalities, rewarding local initiatives and intensified efforts
in this respect;
(d)  improve the standards of living of tLe population of small towns,
through the provision of urban infrastructure and services and the
enhancement of their potential for economic growth.
6.           The project consisted of the financing of urban infrastructure and
public service facilities in 287 municipalities of variable size (from less than
2,500 up to 50,000 inh6.itants) in the State of Parana.  The four components of
the project were:
a)  municipal infrastructure consisting of investments in street paving,
rural road rehabilitation, construction of small bridges, extension
of power connections, water distribution, sanitation works, stormr
drainage, street lighting, street furniture, landscaping and
siteworks;
b)  community  facilities  consisting mainly of the construction and
rehabilitation of rural schools, kindergartens, day-care units,
social centers, health posts, bus terminals, slaughterhouses, markets
and other public buildings, as well as sportsgrounds, gymnasia and
re reation centers;
c)  equipment and vehicles consisting of the purchase or rehatilitation
of road maintenance equipment, school buses, ambulances, equipment
of stone quarries, and of concrete tubes and curbs-factories owned
by municipalities;
d)  technical  assistance  services  consisting  of  contracts  with
specialized agencies such as FAMEPAR and IPARDES for providing
assistance to participating municipalities in the design, tendering
and  supervision  of works,  cadastral  registration,  real  estate
assessment and property tax administration, and guidance in the
improvement of accounting practices, in addition to town planning
surveys, and preparation of zoning and circulation plans.



4
D. Prolect Design and Organization
7.          The design and organization of the project built upon the St4te's
previous experience with its Municipal Capital Improvement Program which had
been operating for two years (1981 and 1982, with total investments amounting
to the equivalent of US$48.7 million, in the 3ame period. However, the project
innovated insofar as clear criteria based on municipalities' urban population
and growth trends were introduced for the allocation of project funds (especially
state grants) to participating municipalities. Also, it tried to introduce a
graduated scale for the allocation of funds among municipalities of different
regions within the State.
8.           The concept of the project was quiite simple.  Municipalities had to
meet eligibility criteria to qualify for project funds. These funds were made
up of grants from the state budget (652 of total project funds) and subloens from
a Bank loan of US$52.7 million, representing 35 percent of total project costs,
made to the Federative Republic of Brazil and passed onto the State of Parana
under the same terms and conditions. The scope and scale of the project were
consistent with the decentralization policies of the newly elected State
Government  and  with  the  implementation  capabilities  of  the  State  and
municipalities.
9.           Responsibility for project implementa:ion was assigned to the State
Secretariat of Planning (SEPL) while actual execu:ion of subprojects was assigned
to the municipalities.  SEPL was helped by other Stae agencies, notably FAMEPAR,
in the appraisal of subprojects and supervision oi works.   FAMEPAPs was also
responsible for a major part of the technical assiscance component, given its
institutional mandate to provide technical assistance to the municipalities of
Paran6.
E. Project Implementation
10.         Project implementation started in the third quarter c' 1984, one
year later than expected at appraisal. There were two reasons for this delay.
First, in March of 1983, both state and municipal administrations changed as a
consequence of political elections held in Novernter,  1982.   The new state
administration needed some time to become fully cognizant of the investment
plans and priorities that had been formulated by the previous one.  Also, it
took some time and effort to finalize the arrangements and the operation manuals
for  project  implementation.    The  manuals  were  meant  for  distribution  to
participating municipalities which then had to prepare their first annual and
pluriannual investment plans for the project.   Second, the loan agreement was
signed only in October of 1983 and did not become affective before March, 1984.
11.         Overall, project implementation was carried out without any major
problems.   Variances between planned and actual project  implementation are
minimal  and  restricted  to  three  instances:   (i)  lack  of  s .jregional
differen.iation for the allocation of grant funds; (ii) timely availability of
counterpart funds; and (iii) lack of an institutional development program
(including a program for incremental cost recovery) as part of the technical
assistance program. Economic productivity differjntials of each subregion as



5
a criterion for resource allocation proved to be both politically and technically
difficult to implement,  given the much stronger definition and identity of
municipalities vis-a-vis administrative or economic subregions. However, because
corrections for the economic productivity differentials of each subregion were
marginal and the other planned criteria (based exclusively on the urban
population sizes of municipalities) were applied, the allocation of grant funds
did not vary much from what had been planned (see Section D, Part III).
Availability of counterpart funds, as in all the other Bank Loans to Brazil, was
adversely affected by high rates of inflation during project implementation.
causing  State  budget  allocations  for  the  project  to  lag  an  average  of
approxii,.ately 55Z behind their yearly planned amounts in US dollar terms.
Despite some 59 training courses (or 2,360 hours) offered as part of the
technical assistance program, an institutional development program (including
the preparation and monitoring of fiscal collection plans aimed at financial
strengthening of the municipalities and recovery of capital improvement costs)
was never implemented. This seems to have resulted from an excessive attention
of project management to the physical and financial (disbursements) aspects of
the project. Nevertheless, there is evidence that municipalities made a large
use of cost recovery measures to strengthen their finances as a result of the
capital improvement investments made under the project (see Para. 16).
12.         Actions or Decisions Taken which Affected Project Implementation.
Actions taken in three different instances had a positive impact on project
implementation.   rirst,  after the Bank mission of December  1984, when the
utilization of incentives for borrowing municipalities was discussed with local
State officials, SEPL adopted the concept of "matching grants" to allocate part
of the grant funds. This action was important to make subloans more attractive
and prevent grant funds from being used up entirely without the corresponding
loan funds of the project, since participating municipalities were not forced
to take subloans. Second, an amendment to the Loan Agreement negotiated by a
Delegation of the State of Parana that visited the Bank in July of 1985 resulted
in the streamlining of procurement procedures. This action was very important
for increasing the speed of project implementation and efficiency in the
utilization of project funds, given the high rates of inflation throughout the
implementation period. Finally, following the mission of October, 1987 actions
and recommendations were endorsed by the Bank to: (i) extend the Closing Date
to December 31, 1988 as the original four-year implementation period was
considered too optimistic, compared with the sector average of about six and a
half years; (ii) increase the disbursement percentage from 502 to 75% for civil
works, from 35Z to 75% for materials, vehicles, equipment, and technical
assistance; (iii) increase Bank's participation in the project from 35% to 50%
to make Bank participation on this project consistent with other Bank-financed
projects in Brazil; and (iv) include under the loan provision for procurement
of small civil works (drainage, road improvements, etc.) under comparative
quotation procedures.  These actions, formalized by the Bank on 01/11/88 (for
extension of the Closing Date) and 02/25/88 (for the remainder), were an
important contribution for the project's completion in five years with 98.5% of
the loan amount disbursed.



6
F. ProJect Results
13.           Project Objectives.   Overall, the project was quite successful in
meeting its principal ob4ectives as stated in Para.5 above.   One of the most
unequivocal evidences-.of its success is the number of borrowing municipalities
which was estimated to be 150 at appraisal and reached 299 municipalities at
project completion.   The project was essential  for improving procedures for
subproject selection and resource allocation to the municipalities of ParanA,
transforming the latter from a mechanism of ad hoc patronage to formula-based
allocations. The physical targets of the project were exceeded in most cases,
as is shown in Section D, Part III.
14.           Impact of the Project.  The impacts of tha project are diffused not
only in spatial terms due to the large number of participating municipalities
(299), but also across sectors due to the project's multi-sectoral approach.
However, the impacts on local institutions (both state and municipal) are
particularly relevant for the project, given that three out of its four specific
objectives (see Para. 5) deal with institutional development. Despite the fact
that institutional development initiatives are difficult to measure and that no
monitoring system was set up for this purpose, some institutional changes took
place which can be used for assessing the impact of the project.
15.           The most important change is one that resulted from the introduction
of systematic criteria for the selection of subprojects and for the allocation
of investment resources to different sized towns.   Before the project, state
funds were allocated to municipalities through a mechanism of ad hoc patronage.
This change was responsible for a significant improvement in state-municipal
relations, since municipalities were then entitled to funds which were allocated
to them on the basis of clear criteria and within which investments could be
planned by them. Access to funds in small amounts which could be used for a wide
range of urban improvements created commaunity participation and satisfaction,
making local authorities more accountable.
16.           The project itself represented another importanit change insofar as
it developed an alternative system of long-term borrowing for municipalities.
Until the projpct's inception the only so-irce of long-term borrowing for
municipalities was BNH (the National Housing Bank, later succeded by CEF).
However, BNH was virtually inaccessible to small municipalities due to the
relative complexity of the qualification process for which they did not have the
required capacity. The availatility of long-term credit allowed municipalities
to finance viable subprojects whose investment costs could be recovered, thus
also allowing for the introduction of cost recovery measures by many
municipalities.   In this regard, the impact of the project could already be
detected in 1986 when a study carried out by FAMIEPAR showed that the number of
municipaliti'es using betterment levies to recover investment costs had risen
from 150 (in 1983) to 200 (in 1985).  The same qtudy shows that, as a Ipercentage
of total local receipts. betterment levies grew from an average of 7.8,~ (in 1983)
to  13.42  (in  1985) in  all  participating  municipalities.    For  example,  in
municipalities ranked as category D (urban population between 10,000 and 20,000
inhiabitants) betterment levies as a percentage of total local receipts grew from
only 5Z to 171%, in the same period. These results give a clear indication that
municipalities were willing to make use of cost recovery measures, once they were
able to make capital investments and had legal responsibility for repaying
sub loans.



7
17.         Albeit less important than the ones discussed above, the project had
positive impacts on the physical and social environments which are worth
mentioning.  The many physical improvements resulting from the implementation
of infrastructure components of the project, such as street paving, storm
drainage and sewer lines to mention only a few, have contributed for a healthier
as well as more sophisticated and efficient urban environment in the small towns.
Street paving and drainage works were especially important to control soil
erosion in urban areas of Northwestern Parana. Public facilities such as health
posts, schools, libraries, bus depots, gymnasia and others improved access
especially of poorer communities to urban services. Because such services when
provided privately restrict access to low-income families, the benefits of
improved access to public services tend to be greater for these families.
G. Project Sustainability
18.         Most of the infrastructure and community facilities built under the
project has a useful life of more than 30 years if properly maintained.   In
contrast, street paving has a much shorter useful life and, therefore, will have
to be rehabilitated every 6 years or so, in addition to regular maintenance.
Under the subsidiary project agreements between the State and participating
municipalities, the latter are required to properly operate and maintain all
infrastructure and community facilities financed under the project for the
du:ation of their respective useful lives. Municipal operation and maintenance
standards are quite satisfactory, state-wide. This was observed for the many
facilities which h&d been completed much before the project was.
19.         The State and the municipalities have demonstrated their ability to
implement a project which required significant institutional changes, in addition
to the use of the existing technical engineering capacity.   To preserve the
momentum generated by the project, the State created the FDU (Parana's Municipal
Development  Fund),  in December of 1988.   The FDU is capitalized with the
repayments of this project's subloans, state contributions, and a new Bank loan
(Loan  3100-BR)  approved  in June,  1989.   The new Bank  loan will  help  to
consolidate the FDU, and to further strengthen the financial and administrative
capacity of municipalities to effectively assume inc-eased responsibilities under
Brazil's new Constitution.   Collection of subloan payments has never been a
problem and should continue z?to be so, since PANESTADO (Paran&'s State Bank, who
is the financial intermediary) is legally capable of retaining ICM transfers as
collateral. At completion of the second Bank-financed project the State should
need no further assistance, given that the FDU should have enough capital (over
US$150 million) to become a permanent and reliable source of financing for
municipal investments in ParanA.



8
H. Bank Performance
20.         Bank's support of the Parana Market Towns Improvement Project was
fundamental for improving resource allocation policies for municipal
infrastructure and services by *ransforming the then existing ad hoc patronage
distribution of state funds to a formula-driven allocation system based on a
clear  set  of  criteria.    Also,  it was  essential  for  improving  resource
mobilization at the municipal  level by requiring municipalities to recover
capital investment costs either directly through the use of betterment levies,
user fees, and the like or indirectly through reassessment of property values.
The project provided the Bank an opportunity to respond positively to Brazil's
first attempt to plan infrastructure and service investments on the basis of a
comprehensive spatial strategy at the State level as well as to develop a
comprehensive approach to urban management including,municipal finance management
issues.
21.         The Bank fielded fifteen missions between 1982 and 1989, of which
ten were supervision missions. Although supervision missions were fielded at
regular intervals,  they were generally understaffed.   Eight out of the ten
supervision missions were staffed with one persun only. These missions spent
an average of four days in the field. From the October, 1987 mission the Bank
maintained continuity  in staffing  its missions,  and  increased  the  skills
coverage. This was reflected in the performance of key indicators: disbursements
and attention focused on the technical assistance component. Despite the fact
that  this was  generally  a problem-free  project,  it  is  obvious  that  the
supervision missions could not dedicate much time to helping the project
management  team  solve  some problems,  such as the  inadequate  strategy  for
technical  assistance,  perhaps.   Had the Bank put more  resources  into the
supervision of the project, its outcome (especially the implementation of the
technical assistance component) might have been better.
22.         Lessons Learned.  The main lessons of experience for the Bank are
fourfold.   First, despite the fact that the State was willing to improve its
system of resource allocation for municipal infrastructure and services
investments by adopting clear criteria for allocation of state funds to
municipalities, the Bank should have recognized from the outset that refined
criteria (such as the subregional economic productivity differentials proposed
at appraisal) have very little charce of being politically acceptable, given
the  much  stronger  definition  a;aa  identity  of  municipalities  vis-a-vis
administrative subregions.   Second, whenever a change is made in the local
organization responsible for project management, the Bank should discuss with
the Borrower the implications thereof for project implementation.   Third and
most importantly, the Bank should put more resources and effort into project
supervision  to  help  project  management  adequately  address  implementation
problems, regardless of the overall status of project iinplementation. Finally,
supervision missions should make sure, early in project implementation, that an
adequate system for monitoring the project's impact has been set up, so as to
avoid the lack of base data and other information for its evaluation at
preparation of the PCR.
I. Borrower Performance (State of Parana)
23.         Overall, the Borrower's performance was quite satisfactory in all



9
phases of the project. Despite the changes in administration brought about by
the 1982 (state and municipal), 1986 (state) and 1988 (municipal) political
elections, the project did not suffer. Disbursement of loan funds matched the
average Bank profile, making this project a rare exception in Brazil's urban
portfolio of the Bank. Much of the satisfactory performance of the Borrower may
be certainly credited to the strong political support enjoyed by the project and
to an extremely dedicated state bureaucracy (notably the project management unit
and FAMEPAR), which developed all operation manuals for project implementation
and responded quite promptly and positively to problems faced during the
implementation period. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about FAMEPAR's
role in the implementation of the technical assistance component, especially the
training and financial management strengthening of municipal staff. Apparently,
municipalities showed very little interest for these subcomponents which were
not implemented until the last year of the project.
24.         Another weakness of the Borrower's performance on this project is
related to the merger of the project management unit (UAT/PRAM) with FAMEPAR's
team responsible for supervision and monitoring of project implementation which
took place in 1987 as part of the changes brought about by a new state
administration.    When  this  happened,  responsibility  for  overall  project
management was assigned to FAMEPAR's team in charge of supervising and assisting
municipalities for project implementation. Because these latter activities are
time demanding and tend to concentrate on routine issues, important planning and
coordination activities essential to overall project management were given little
attention.   This happened when actions for implementation of the technical
assistance component were most needed and may explain why it was not successfully
accomplished.
25.         Lessons Learned.  The main lessons of experience for the Borrower
are twofold.   First, the use of clear criteria for resource allocation among
municipalities and for subproject selection is not only technically defensible
but also politically viable, given the project's success and the degree of
support it enjoyed from the municipalities themselves and their respective
communities.   Second and most importantly,  because of the large number of
institutional players and the complexity of some project components (notably
the technical assistance component), responsibility for project management is
expected to demand the full-time attention of a team and, therefore, should not
be assigned to operations teams which are already responsible for implementation
activities and do not always have the necessary skills and time for the planning
and coordination activities intrinsic to project management.
J. Project Relationship
26.          Bank relationship with the State of Paranh has been excellent.  The
good relationship between the Bank and the Borrower and  he high level of
professionalism of both parties permitted a steady flow of information and
exchange of ideas and opinions on the project which certainly contributed to a
smooth implementation. It also resulted in the Bank's participation in Parana's
Municipal Development Project, which is already under implementation and builds
on the experience with this project.



10
K. Consulting Services
27.         Consulting servicos were used by municipalities mostly for designing
sub-projects. At the State level, consulting services were restricted to the
auditing of project accounts and to certain parts of the technical assistance
component which was under the responsibility of FAMEPAR, the state agency for
technical assistance to the municipalities. The inability of FAMEPAR to deliver
and to contract out some of the technical assistance was responsible for some
delay and deficiencies in the implementation of this project component.   In
general, the performance of consultants appears to have been satisfactory.
L. Project Documentation and Data
28.         Both the Loan and the Project Agreements for this project were
adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives. Also, the sub-loan
and the participation agreements (convenios) between the State and mtnicipalities
were fundamental to maintain project execution within the limits established
under the loan and project agreements between the Bank and the Borrower.
29.         The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the Bank
and the Borrower during project implementation. The Operation Manuals developed
by the Borrower were fundamental in providing guidance for project implementation
to more than 287 participating municipalities and 17 state agencies involved with
sub-project appraisals and implementation supervision, especially to the fourteen
regional offices of FAMEPAR.
30.         Most data needed for preparation of the PCR was readily available
as the project coordination unit (UAT/PRAM) developed a computerized information
system in the early stages of project implementation.   However, the lack of
adequate information and data on the impact of the project (not gathered
systematically during the implementation period) did not allow a thorough
evaluation. Bank supervision missions should in future alert project management
to the importance of monitoring the impact of the project during its
implementation, and require that such an appropriate information system be
established in the early stages of project implementation.



11
PART II.  COMMENTS BY THE BORROWER
May 23, 1990
Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief
Infrastructure Operations Division
Brazil Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. NankRni:
In reference to correspondence dated April 27, 1990, related to the Project
Completion Report for the Parana Market Towns Improvement Project - Loan 2343-
BR, we are pleased to submit to you the report prepared by CEP/FAMEPAR, which
reports about the development of the Programa de Acao Municipal PRAM.
Sincerely,
Paulo Roberto Pereira de Souza
State Secretary of Urban Development
and the Environment



12
COMMENTS ON PART I OF THE PCR
The project's major economic and social development objectives can be
considered to have been fundamentally achieved.  For that reason, the resources
invested should be considered well-applied and properly managed, and have
significantly reduced municipalities' dependence on financial transfers from
federal and state governments. In addition, the systematic selection criteria
established will facilitate future investments made through PEDU (the program
for the urban development in the State of Parana, currently supported by the Bank
by Loan 3100-BR), and allow fiscal cost recovery of the municipalities'
investments, as well as well as a return to the state.
We feel,  however,  that the State could have given the project more
appropriate financial support, as a result of the beneficial effects it brought
to State finances. Through PRAM, the Parana State Government was able to collect
substantial amounts in revenues, of which only a small amount was reinvested in
the program. For example, the PRAM program, through the subloans taken by the
municipalities from BANESTADO, in a little more than 10 (ten) months brought to
the domestic financial market, approximately US$31 million, earning with this
significant tax revenues (through IPI, ICMS, ISS, INPS, FGTS, etc.) and also
social charaes.
Investments undertaken by the municipalities allowed them to significantly
improve  the  quality  of  life  of  the  persons  residing  there,  as well  as
demonstrating without any doubt the value of the pride citizens feel in living
near the infrastructural improvements financed under the project.
Infrastructure investments under the project were significant, as shown
in the table below:
Table 1
A. INFRASTRUCTURE ..................................... TOTAL US$165.1 million
A.1 Urban Paving (various mod.)..US$165.1 million
B. COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES .................. TOTAL US$155.8 million
B.1. Day Care .................... US$17.8 million
B.2. Gymnasium ................... US$7,.2 million
B.3. Sports Fields ............... US$29.7 million
B.4. Community Centers ............ US$18.8 million
B.5. Health Posts ................. US$10.2 million
TOTAL ..                                                (A)+(B) US$320.9 million
The World Bank Loan enabled the municipalities (all the eligible
municipalities participated in the 299 subloans) to learn that a well-planned
investment can improve the fixed and financial assets of municipalities as well



13
as the State's financial situation as a whole. It would be difficult to imagine
another program achieving such significant results in the near future.
Nevertheless, some institutional improvements were achieved under the
project, there are weaknesses that would require attention. These weaknesses
can be found in the areas of monitoring the project's impact and on the operation
and maintenance of municipal infrastructure and facilities.
In the evaluation of the balance sheets provided by BANESTADO, it can be
verified that there has been no default in repayments by the municipalities and
that repayments are being made in a shorter term than that provided for in the
subloan agreements.
With reference to the Program Management, we highlight some puints that
will assist in providing a more comprehensive evaluation:   In 1987, the PRAM
Program Coordination, with the objective of achieving greater efficiency in the
project  implementation,  attempted  to  promote  the  centralization  and  the
unification of activities that had been until then distributed between
UAT/PRAM/SEPL  and  the Coordinadoria  Especial  do PRAM/FAMEPAR.    The  staff
required to set up the new Unit were: (a) three higher level staff from the old
Project Unit and (b) 14 higher level and intermediate technical staff, 1
administrative area and one estagiario of the Coordenadoria Especial do
PRAM/FAMEPAR and of FAMEPAR (CAM), reaching a total of 17 (seventeen) staff.
This took place during the administrative reform of the State Government in
1987, which placed PRAM under the aegis of SEDU (State Secretariat for Urban
Development). During this time, PRAM suffered serious problems as a result of
insufficient physical space for the team and for meetings, support staff and
equipment, part of which was provided by FAMEPAR. PRAM also had problems with
telephone communications due to an insufficient number of telephone lines (even
the then-Chief of Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division Chief, Mr. Mohan
Munasinghe,  complained  about  this  to  the  State  Secretary).    PRAM's  data
processing system continued to be operated by SEPL (in another building),
demanding frequent visits to feed the system and to exercise the necessary
controls, causing as a consequence significant waste of time, which sometimes
was detrimental to the rest of the activities of the program. This situation
was alleviated in 1988.
In the meantime, in spite of all these problems, the Project Unit   team
did not lack dedication to maintain the activities at an ideal rate, in order
to attain the goals established by the State Government. We always looked for
ways in which to mold our actions in accordance with the guidelines defined by
SEDU. In this way it was possible to promote and conduct a variety of activities
directed at expediting and improving the understanding of the Program by the
municipalities, to smooth over difficulties and to solve problems deriving
principally from the phase of institutional reform and an economy in recession.
In the first six months of the PRAM Project the Project Unit developed,
in addition to the activities and operational tasks and of routine controls
needed for Program execution, orientation manuals ("PRAM/87" and PRAM/88), which
contained normative and orientation instructions. The purpose of the manuals
was to achieve a better management of the program by the municipal



14
administrations as well as by the State sector agencies involved in its
execution.   These manuals were complemented by instructions directed to the
municipal governmenits and to the above-referred agencies through periodic
circular letters.
After discussion with the Bank, PRAM obtained authorization, (telex dated
July 31, 1987), to adapt procurement procedures to the norms established in
Federal Decree No. 2300/86, which allowed for adjustments for inflationary and
operational costs increases implied in the elapsed time of bidding procedures.
We also formalized (telex dated July 7, 1987) an extension of the Project's
closing date and adoption of the procedures to use loan and subloan funds to
finance 502 instead of 35? of the expenditures incurred by the municipalities
(they were  allocating  large  amounts  of  counterpart  funds  that  were  not
reimbursable by the Bank). The closing date extension and confirmation of the
increase in the Bank's participation from 35Z to 502 of total project costs,
which implied a 75Z reimbursement for construction works, materials, vehicles,
equipment and technical assistance as opposed to a previous reimbursement of 50t
for construction works and 35? for materials, vehicles, equipment and technical
assistance, was confirmed through an amendment to the Loan Agreement of February
25, 1988.
With regard to other commitments of the State according to several Aide
Memoires of World Bank supervision missions, the State managed to introduce the
following changes:
- A study to review the allocated funds for the investment plan of 1987 with
the purpose of making counterpart funds follow the same disbursement
schedule established under the Loan Agreement;
- Review of the municipal investment plans in view of the new amounts of
funds available for investment;
- Implementation of the diagnostics and evaluation of the management plan
for municipal action which had been reviewed by the Bank in September 1987
for 104 municipalities with financial problems due to a decrease in total
receipts during the last 5 years. These municipalities had priority for
the institutional action plan;
- Requests to FAMEPAR (letter 107/87 of June 2, 1987 UAT/PRAM/SEDU) to
recommend taking urgent action with regard to the implementation of the
Technical Assistance Program;
- Participation Agreements and contracts with the Municipal Associations for
the implementation of land use plans under the Technical Assistance
component; and
- The coordination of PRAM with the help of the Secretariat of Finance made
possible the use of additional counterpart funds that were taken from
budget allocations of several State Secretariats for financing eligible
subprojects.



15
The Project Management Unit faced some difficulties. Between March and
December, 1987, it was institutionally organized under FAMEPAR, resulting in a
lack of planning, management and accountability.   This was known to the Bank
mission in early 1988.   Following this mission the Project Unit lost 4 staff
resulting in increased difficulties to carry on its tasks.  During this Bank
mission, a Technical Assistance Program of approximately US$1.6 million had been
presented, given that until that date only 0.5Z of project funds had been used
for technical assistance. The Bank m'.ssion recommended that only US$550,000 be
used for technical assistance, as it seemed inappropriate to overspecid on
technical assistance. Therefore, until December 1987 the Technical Assistance
component had been limited to a few land-use plans and zoning by-laws.
The monitoring of the institutional development components was not carried
out adequately because FAMEPAR was not able to implement them according to what
had been agreed with the Bank following the weakening of FAMEPAR's regional
offices and administration with the administrative reform implemented by the
State Government in 1987.  We hope that the evaluation carried out under the
social economic impact report for PRAM will help the State and the Bank to better
understand the institutional needs of municipalities and consequently be able
to monitor both State and Municipal institutional actions.
It  is worth noting  that  the Technical Assistance  component was  not
implemented before 1987, and also noteworthy that the project objectives were
attained despite the fact that an efficient monitoring of the institutional
aspects of the project was not carried out.
The Table below shows a synthesis of the project investments until 1986
(under SEPL) and from 1987 on (under SEDU/PRAM/FAMEPAR).
Table 2.
DISBURSEMENTS REQUESTED PER YEAR
YEAR  PERIOD   VALUE IN US$    ANNUAL          2 IN RELAT.    INSTIT.  TOTAL Z
(MONTHS)                   INFLATION        TO PROGRAM
84     1-12       177,159.07   203,21(I)             0,33
85     1-12    7,557,413.86   228,04(I)             14.34         SEPL    30,97
86     1-12    8,592,032.01    62,37(II)            16.30
87     1-12    8,777,404.79   363,96(II)            16,66
88     1-12   22,323,838.48   933,62(II)            42.36         SEDU    68,99
89     6-6      5,251,996.46   175,62(III)           9.97
_bs. I ____-__ Inflation information provid b_  _
Obs. I   - Inflation information provided by INPC
II  - Inflation information provided by IPC
III - Inflation information provided by IPC from January-to June/89



16
As presented in Part II we consider that SEDU/UAT/PRAM/FAMEPAR (as the
Project Management Unit and FAMEPAR as a whole), BANESTADO (as the financial
agent  for  the  project)  and  all  State  Agencies  participating  in  project
implementation carried out quite satisfactorily the Loan and the Project
Agreements signed between the State and the Baiik.
COMMENTS ON PART III OF THE PCR
With reference to Part III of the PCR, statistical data gathered through
PAM and RBC of PRAM are presented.   The rating criteria used by the Bank was
based on the data provided in the Progress Reports. We have no comments to make
on  this.   It  is worth noting  that  the Bank  authorized  in June  7,  1989
disbursements up until June 30, 1989. This is nnt s'iown in Part III (comments
item B-Timetable, sub-item "e"). We also believe that the undisbursed amount
at loan closing on July 27 1989 is explained in the final Audit Report/89
(Moreira Auditores).   With reference to item 2 Part III  "Project Economic
Impact", the required information was sent to the Bank on May 14, 1990 for
analysis.



17
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                 Purpose             Year of           Status
Title                                         Approval
Loan No.2623-BR          To  finance  priority   1985           under
Santa Catarina Small   investments in infra-                    implementation
Towns    Improvement   structure,    produc-
Project                  tive activities, com-
munity    facilities,
equipment and techni-
cal assistance throu-
gh a line of credit
to municipalities
Loan No.3100-BR          To increase the gen-   1989            under
Municipal   Develop-   eral   financial   and                   implementation
ment Project in the   administrative capac-
State of Parana          ity of municipalities
to effectively assume
increased   responsi-
bilities under Bra-
zil's new Constitu-
tion
Loan No.3129-BR          To increase the gen-   1989           under
Municipal   Develop-   eral   financial   and                   implementation
ment Project in the   administrative capac-
State of Rio Grande   ity of municipalities
do Sul                  to effectively assume
increased   responsi-
bilities under Bra-
zil's new Constitu-
tion



18
B. Project Timetable
Item                         Date                Date              Date
Planned             Revised          Actual
Identification (a)             --                   .-              07/81
Preparation (b)                --                   --              05/82
Pre-appraisal                 08/82                 --              08/82
Appraisal                  10/17/82                 --              11/82
Loan Negotiations (c)    03/28/83                  04/83         04/11/83
Board Approval             05/31/83                08/83         08/23/83
Loan -ignature                 --                   --           10/05/83
Loan Effectiveness            10/83                 __           03/15/84
Loan Closing Date (d)    12/31/87              12/31/88          12/31/88
Loan Completion (e)        06/30/89                 --           06/30/89
Comments:
(a) A preliminary project proposal was presented to Bank staff in the Spring
of 1981.  The project was formally presented by the State of Parana in
July 1981.
(b) Following confirmation by the Federal Goveranment that this was a priority
project, two brief preparation missions to Parana were carried out.
(c) Loan negotiation sessions were carried out at the Borrower's headquarters
in Brasilia during the week ending April 15, 1983.
(d) The loan closing date was revised on 01/11/88, as requested by represen-
tatives of the Borrower, and endorsed by SAIN under ref. telex/GHF/NR/-
87/5011/DE/28/12/87 SAIN-858.
(e) Although the loan completion date was June 30, 1989, project accounts
remained informally open until July 27, 1989 when the final disbursement
was made, raising total amount disbursed to US$51.93 million.



19
C.  'oan Disbursements
1. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in USS million)
Bank Fiscal Year              1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Appraisal Estimate             5.6    19.3    39.5    51.0    52.7    52.7
Actual                         3.97    5.61   13.21   24.82   37.71   49.48
Actual as 2 Estimate          70.97   Z9.1Z   33.4?   48.72   71.62   93.92
Date of Final Disbursement: 07/27/89
Total Amount Disbursed: US$51.93 million
Comments:
(a) The Loan Agreement was amended on 02/25/8S to increase the Bank dis-
bursement percentages  for civil works,  gocd&   materials and technical
assistance to 75Z.  This new percentage wes ef.ective for disbursements
from the Loan Account made afteIr January 1. l
2.  Time Line of Planned and Actual Disburs'rent Schedules
US$ million
50.                                            ____
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
40                             Jo 
30~~                        ~        ~~    / 
// /
30                   /
/     z~~~~~
20 
/                        - - - - ~~~~~~planned
actua1
lot 
1984       1985      1986      1987       1988      1989



20
D. Project Implementation
Indicators                                 Appraisal             Actual
Estimate
No. of Participating Municipalities            287                   299
No. of Borrowing Municipalities                150                   299
Percent Composition of Project Expenditures
a) Infrastructure                         65Z                  64.72
b) Community Facilities & Services        232                  26.42
c) Equipment & Vehicles                    72                   3.72
d) Technical Assistance                    52                   5.22
Percent Allocation of State Grant Funds by Subregion
a) East                                  5.12                   8.32
b) Second Plateau                       11.3Z                   6.1Z
c) North                                31.9%                  39.3Z
d) West                                 38.62                  32.72
e) Southwest                             8.82                  10.62
f) Center                                4.3Z                   3.02
Comments:
(a) The number of participating municipalities increased from 287 to 299 due
to the creation of one municipality after inception of the project and
the inclusion of 11 eligible municipalities of the Curitiba Metropolitan
Region which were not considered for project financing during appraisal
because of the existence of another investment program for the metropol-
itan region at that time.
(b) The discrepancies between appraisal estimate and actual percent alloca-
tion of state grant funds by sub-region are due to the non-utilization of
regional economic productivity differentials, as explained in Para 11
(Part I), and the inclusion of 12 other municipalities in the project, as
explained above in (a).



21
E. Project Costs and Financing
1. Project Costs (in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual (*)
Item                           Local Foreign Total         Local Foreign  Total
Costs Exchange              Costs Exchange
Costs                       Costs
Infrastructure                   50.4   27.1   77.5           45.45  24.47   69.92
Community Facilities & Serv.  17.9    9.6   27.5              18.51   9.97   28.48
Equipment & Vehicles              5.4    2.9    8.3            2.60   1.40    4.00
Technical Assistance              3.9    2.1    6.0            3.67   1.98    5.65
Contingencies                    20.0   10.7   30.7            --      --       --
Front-End Fee                     --      0.2    0.2           --      0.13    0.13
TOTAL                            97.5   52.7  150.2           70.23  37.95  108.18
(*) Estimated costs at completion.
Comments:
(a) Project costs were revised on 02/25/88 as a result from Bank's agreement
to increase the project's disbursement percentages for civil works, goods,
materials and technical assistance to 752.  The Bank agreed to increase
its cost sharing to a maximum of 502 of total project costs, which were
then estimated at US$105.4 million.



22
2. Project Financing
Planned           Revised              Final
Source                Loan Agreement
USS million    Z  US$ million    Z  US$ million    Z
IBRD                      52.7     35        52.7      50        51.93    48
Domestic                  97.5     65        52.7      50        56.25    52
TOTAL                    150.2    100       105.4    100        108.18   100
Comments:
(a) Project financing was revised on 02/25/88 as a result of Bank's agreement
to increase its disbursement percentages for civil works, goods, materials
and technical assistance to 752 and to consequently increase its cost
sharing to a maximum of 502 of total project costs.



23
F. Project Results
1. Direct Benefits
Indicators                               Appraisal            Actual on
Estimate             Closing Date
a) Infrastructure
- Street Paving                         2,490,000 m2         12,528,512 m2
- Town Squares Improvement                670,000 m2             631,716 m2
- Bridges and Crossings                       200 units              257 units
- Electrification                         480,000 m              114,251 m
- Traffic Signs                               250 km of street       287 km of st
- Drinking Water                          224,000 m               89,165 m
- Sewerage                                 45,700 m              147,185 m
- Street Furniture                            250 km of street       244 km of st
- Rural Road Rehabilitation                18,400 km               2,579 km
- Site  reparations                            75 ha                0.79 ha
- Slwu.. Upgrading                          7,200 households         318 househol
- Others (see Annex 1)
b) Community Facilities and Services
- Kindergartens                            16,200 m2              79,050 m2
- Gymnasia                                 62,000 m2             274,437 m2
- Sports Grounds                          172,000 m2             440,710 m2
- Social Centers                           12,900 m2              84,702 m2
- Health Posts                             12,000 m2              16,377 m2
- Other Public Buildings                    4,300 m2             185,298 m2
- Others (see Annex 1)
c) Equipment and Vehicles                     n.s.                    499 units
d) Technical Assistance
- No. of Land Use Plans Prepared             n.s.                     70
- No. of Municipal Staff Trained             n.s.                  1,704
n.s. = (not specified)
Comments:
(a) The disparity between estimated and actual number of households in slum
upgrading is reflected in higher paving and sewersge indicators, since in
the small towns benefitted by the project poverty is not typified by slums
but rather by a generalized lack of infrastructure and public services in
low-income areas.
(b) Sewerage subprojects were undertaken by municipalities which operate their



24
own water supply and sewerage systems.   These municipalities are not
serviced by the State Water Company (SANEPAR) and, therefore, do not have
access to PLANASA resources.
2. Economic Impact
Indicators                          Appraisal                 Actual
Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                 262                     n.a.
Underlying Assumptions
1. Rates of return were calculated for selected towns in each size category
on a representative sample of those subprojects which produce quantifi-
able benefits (corresponding to 65Z of proposed project costs).
2. Economic rates of return were computed for given investment packages,
using actual costs and benefits of subprojects in the chosen towns.
3. The approach was to compare sets of street-related investments made during
the past few years (paving, sidewalks, drainage, public lighting, etc.)
with recorded increments in imputed rental values of adjoining properties.
4. Implementation was assumed to last an average of nine months, based on
past experience.
5. Average project life was set at 30 years with no salvage values.
6. The maintenance cost for paving was assumed to be 4Z from the third year
onwards, with a 50Z lump sum in the sixth year.
7. An average of 42 of capital costs was used for maintenance costs of
sidewalks and street furniture, starting in the second year and 32 for
other investments.
8. Investment costs were not adjusted to account for the unskilled labor
component, in light of the relative scarcity and mobility of manpower in
Parana.
9. The foreign exchange component, estimated at 352, was shadow-priced at
1.2, the shadow exchange rate used for Bank financed projects in Brazil,
at the time of appraisal.
Comments:
(a) Duie to the lark of hase data, it was not possible to calculate the actual
economic rate of return for this project.



25
G. Status of Covenants
Covenant          Subject                           Deadline       Status
Loan Agreement                                      for Compliance
Disbursement against 50 per-
2.02                cent for works and 35 percent        --            1
for equipment for eligible sub-
projects in eligible municipal-
ities. From 02/25/88 on, dis-
bursement against 75 percent
for civil works, goods, materi-
als and technical assistance.
2.03               Maintenance of Special Account        --            1
2.03               Borrower to furnish withdrawal        --            1
applications (based on reason-
able cost for eligible sub- pr-
ojects) to Central Bank. Lat-
ter to approve them on this
basis
3.01               Aim to assist small towns with        --            1
less than 50,000 population
3.02               Role of Federal Govt. in on-          --            1
lending and project supervision
4.02               Annual  audit  and  periodic          --            1
statements of Special Account
PROJECT AGREEMENT
2.01a               State,  through BANESTADO,  to       --            1
enter sub-loan agreements with
eligible municipalities
2Olb              State provision of counterpart        --            1
funds and budget allowance
2.01d               Selection and supervision of         --            1
municipalities and subprojects
by the State
2.02               Procurement                           --            1
2.03               Use of Manual                         --            1



26
2.04a               Technical  assistance  program         --            2 (a)
for municipalities
2.04c               Monitoring of economic, finan-         --            3
cial and fiscal impact
2.05a               Progress reporting                     I-            1
2.05a               Maintenance of regional offices        --            1
2.06a               Keeping of records and inform-         --            1
ing Bank missions about proj-
ect
2.06b               Project Completion Report              --            1
2.07a               State to exchange views with           --            1
Bank on progress and compliance
with covenants
2.07b               State to promptly inform Bank          --            1
of conditions that threaten to
interfere with project perfor-
mance
3.Oi                Maintenance and inspection of          --            1
separate project accounts
3.02                Auditing of project accounts           --            1
PROJECT AGREEMENT
SCHEDULE 1
A(1/2)              Obligations of State to assist         --            1
municipalities in project ex
ecution
B(l)                BANESTADO  to  enter  sub-loan         --            1
agreements with municipalities;
terms
B(2)                Verification of municipal bor-         --            1
rowing limits
B(3)                Remedies of BANESTADO in event         --            1
of failure of municipalities to
meet agreements
B(4)                Retention of ICM as collateral         --            1



27
C(l)                Diligence  and  efficiency  of         --            1
municipalities in subproject
execution
C(2)                Proper costing and chronogram          --            1
of works
C(3)                Insurance and correct use of           --            1
loan proceeds by municipali-
ties
C(4a)               Adequacy of municipal records          --            1
C(4b)               Access of Bank to records              --            1
C(5)                Progress reporting by munici-          --            1
palities to the State
C(6)                Municipal PCRs                         --            3 (b)
C(7)                Selection of appropriate sub-          --            1
projects by municipalities
C(8)                Procurement by section 2.02 PA         --            1
C(9)                Timely land acquisition                --            1
C(10)               Efficient operation and main-          --            1
tenance
C(ll)               Municipal agreement to use of          --            1
ICM transfers as collateral
PROJECT AGREEMENT    Criteria for Selection of El-
SCHEDULE 2            igible Municipalities
(a)                 Population less than 50,000           --            1
(b)                 Municipal investment program          --            1
(c)                 Municipal ability to use funds        --            1
within their total debt capac-
ity
(d)                 Action plan for improvement of        --            3
collection of fiscal revenues
Ratings
1 - Full Compliance



28
2 - Partial Compliance
3 - Non Compliance
Comments:
(a) The technical assistance program was restricted to helping municipalities
overcome problems related to the implementation of the project, and did
not cover the broader issues related to the institutional strengthening
of participating municipalities.
(b) The municipalities were not asked to prepare their individual PCRs, given
that this was not a practical covenant.
H. Use of Bank Resources
1. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of              Planned           Final              Comments
Project Cycle
Through Appraisal                          24.8
Appraisal through                           4.0
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Sup4rvision                                10.6
PCR Preparation            3.6              3.6
TOTAL                                     43.0



29
2. Missions
Stage of     Month/  No. of  Days in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Project Cycle   Year   Persons  Field    Represented'         Rating2    Problems3
Through Appraisal
Prep. I         05/82     2       05       EC, UP
Prep. II        08/82     4       12        PP, EG, UE, UP
Appraisal   10-11/82       6      12        PP, FA(2), UP,
EG, UE
Appraisal Through Board Approval
Negotiations   04/83      4       05        LO, DO, PP, SC
Supervision
Superv. I       10/83     1       03       PP                   1
Superv. II      07/84     1       05       UE                   1
Superv. III    12/84      1       05        PP                  2          MA, AF
Superv. IV      12/85     1       10       UE                   2          MA, AF
Superv. V       05/86     1       01       UE                   2          MA, AF
Superv. V'      10/86     1       04        FA                  1
Superv. VII    05/87      1       02       UE                   2          MA, AF
Superv. VIII   10/87      2       04       EC, PP               1
Superv. IX      06/88     1       05       EC                   1
Superv. X       12/88     2       05       EC, FA               1
PCR
Prep. Init.    12/89      2       05       UP, AR(partial time)
1   AR = Architect;  DO = Disbursement Officer;  EG = Engineer;
EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; LO = Loan Officer;
PP = Physical Planner; UE = Urban Economist;
UP = Urban Planner; SC = Senior Counsel
2   (1) problem free or minor problems;  (2) moderate problems;
(3) major problems.
3    (MA) project management;  (AF) availability of funds



30
Annex 1
BRAZIL
Project Completion Report
Parana Market Towns Improvement Project
Other Direct Benefits (Not Foreseen At Appraisal)
Indicators                                Appraisal                Actual on
Estimate               Closing Date
a) Infrastructure
- Opening up of Road Extensions                --                      1,901 m
- Primary Surfacing of Roads                   --                     23,520 m2
- Bicycle Paths                                --                      7,496 m
-Channelization of Rivers                      --                      9,408 m
- Storm Drainage (i) length of networks        --                      4,809 m
(ii) volume excavated         --                   100,000 m3
- Small Barrages/Dams                          --                     10,651 m3
- River Dragging                               --                      1,820 m
-Contouring of Rural Areas (i) area            --                      3,145 ha
(ii) road relocation                     65,637 m
- Valley Bottoms Reclamation                   --                     36,000 m2
- Trees Planted in Urban Areas                 --                      7,608 un
- Illumination of Public Squares               --                         87 un
- Sidewalks                                    --                      6,787 m2
- Landscaping                                  --                      8,698 m2
b) Community Facilities and Services
- Public Vegetable Gardens                     --                      5,900 m2
- Municipal Tree Nurseries                     --                     11,181 m2
- Public Cemiteries  (i) new construction    --                      134,S81 m2
(ii) improvements         --                    43,797 m2
(iii) completion           --                    28,078 m2
- Rural Telecommunications (no. of telephone stations)                    11 un
- Pedestrian Malls (meters of street)          --                      4,513 m
- Sports Complex  (i) new construction         --                     82,294 m2
(ii) completion of seven units                     47,598 m2
(iii) improvements                                  90,307 m2
- Soccer Fields   (i) new construction                               108,014 m2
(ii) completion                                   112,757 m2
(iii) improvements in existing fields               43,288 m2
- Completion of Gymnasia                       --                     24,038 m2
- Exhibition Parks                             --                     43,350 m2
- Bus Shelters                                 --                         11un
- Restoration of Historic Buildings            --                      5,734 m2



