Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3560a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$52.7 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
August 4, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982                        July 14, 1983
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1  -  Cr$179.80                     US$1  = Cr$568.79
Cr$1  -  US$0.0056                     CR$1  = US$0.0017
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report
for project cost and financing estimates (US$1=Cr$220.63)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of October 31,
1982.
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANESTADO    Banco do Estado do Parana
(Parana State Bank)
BNH          Banco Nacional de Habitagao
(National Housing Bank)
CIATA        Convenios de Incentivos ao Aperfeicoamento Tecnico-
Administrativo das Municipalidades
(Agreements on Incentives for the Technical-Administrative
Improvement of Municipalities)
CNDU         Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
CNPU         Comissao Nacional de Regioes Metropolitanas e Politica
Urbana
(National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban
Policy)
COHAB        Companhia de Rabitagao Popular
(Low-Cost Housing Company)
COHAPAR      Companhia de Habitagao do Parana
(Parana Low-Cost Housing Company)
COPEL        Companhia Paranaense de Eletricidade
(Parana State Electricity Company)
EBTU         Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Transport Company)
EMOPAR       Empresa de Obras Publicas do Parana
(Parana State Public Works Company)
FAMEPAR      Fundagao de Assistencia aos Municipios do Estado do Parana
(Parana Municipal Assistance Foundation)
FNDU         Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Fund)
ICM          Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Value-added Tax)
IPTU         Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano
(Urban Property Tax)
ISS          Imposto sobre Servigos
(Tax on Services)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PLANASA      Plano Nacional de Saneamento
(National Sanitation Plan)
PLANHAB      Plano Nacional de Habitagao Popular
(National Low-Cost Housing Plan)
PROFILURB    Programa de Financiamento de Lotes Urbanizados
(Sites and Services Financing Program)
SANEPAR      Companhia de Saneamento do Parana
(Parana Sanitation Company)
SDU          Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(Federal Undersecretariat of Urban Development)
SEDM         Secretaria de Desenvolvimento dos Municipios
(Parana Secretariat for Municipal Development)
SEPL         Secretaria de Planejamento
(Parana Planning Secretariat)
SEPLAN       Secretaria de Planeiamento
(Federal Planning Secretariat)
SFH          Sistema Financeiro de Habitagao
(Housing Financing System)
UPC          Unidade Padrao de Capital
(Standardized Capital Unit of Account)



BRAZIL
PARA14A MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:              US$52.7 million equivalent, including a front-end fee of
US$131,421.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries and
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would make available the proceeds of the
loan to the State of Parana on the same terms as those of
the loan. The State would make sub-loans in cruzeiros,
to towns of less than 50,000 inhabitants, which would
apply and be judged credit-worthy. The sub-loans would
be for 10 years, including a grace period of not more
than 3 years. They would bear interest on the indexed
principal at the rate charged by the National Housing
Bank (BNH). The adjustment to principal would follow at
a minimum, the UPC, applied by BNH for its infrastructure
loans in the larger cities in Parana. The foreign
exchange risk, and the interest rate risk on the Bank
loan, would be borne largely by the State of Parana.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would provide 287 market towns of
less than 50,000 inhabitants each with infrastructure,
public services and social facilities, and would
strengthen their economic role and fiscal position. It
is likely to induce rural migrants to settle in these
towns, instead of crowding into the larger centers.
Risks:               No problems should arise with regard to the contribution
of local funds. The nature of the works is relatively
simple and - given the efficiency of the local
administration - the execution of the project should not
encounter delays or difficulties.



Estimated Cost:                                            US$ million
Local Foreign Total
Infrastructure                        50.4    27.1    77.5
Public Services and Social
Facilities                          17.9     9.6    27.5
Equipment and Vehicles                 5.4     2.9      8.3
Technical Assistance                   3.9     2.1      6.0
Base Cost 1/                    77.5    41.8   119.3
Physical Contingencies                 7.8     4.2    12.0
Price Contingencies 2/                12.2     6.5    18.7
Total Cost 3/                   97.5    52.5   150.0
Front-end Fee 4/-                      -       0.2      0.2
Total Financing Required              97.5    52.7   150.2
1/   At estimated June 1983 prices.
2/   Based on assumed international inflation during the four-year
investment period.
3/   Net of local taxes.
4/   Amount rounded-off.
Financing Plan:                                              US$ million
Local Foreign Total %
State of Parana                 97.5      -      97.5   65
IBRD                             -       52.7    52.7   35
97.5    52.7   150.2  100
Estimated
Disbursements:            Bank FY            84       85      86       87    88
Annual             5.6    13.7    20.2    11.5   1.7
Cumulative         5.6    19.3    39.5    51.0  52.7
Rate of Return:      Rates of return were calculated for selected market towns
on a representative sample of sub-projects, which show
quantifiable benefits. The overall return on investment
categories, included in these sub-projects and
representing about two-thirds of total project cost, is
estimated at 26%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 4403a-BR, dated May 4, 1983.



INTEkNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPLVITNT
REPOUl AND KEBUMENDATliON UF 'hE PRESIDENT
TO ThE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OI' A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$52.7 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
vkARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PRUJECT
IN THE STATE OF PARANA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative kepublic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$52.7
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$131,421 to help
finance urban improvements in market towns in the State of Parana. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standara variable rate.
PART I - ThE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil"
(Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 26, 1981.  Updating missions were in Brazil in Nay-June
1982 and in January 1983. A preliminary version of their report was
discussed with the Government in July 1983, and the full report will be
distributed shortly. Part I of this report as well as the country data
sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings and projections of those
missions.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
oftice on 1iarch 15, 1979, for a six-year term.  While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with
inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Miajor economic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections since the mid-1960s. opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
1Ninas Gerais, and Parana. A presidential election is scheduled for
November 1984.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and



-2-
domestic trade. After 19/3 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980.  The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7
billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal
increase in exports and an absolute reduction in imports. Over the entire
1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of
imports. iNon-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation
of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real
imports, and the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices
and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over
those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach
US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Honetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line witn
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in an around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 19/9 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.



-3 -
&.        The slowdown of international trade caught up withi Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
tue theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981.  Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$/67 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
t          first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and brazil was forcea to increase its short term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit
for 1982 totalea US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history,
mostly reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments
(US$8.5 billion) plus amortization of existing medium and long term (ML&T)
loans (US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new ML&T loans
(US$15.2 billion), constituting a negative net ML&T resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-82 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50% have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Keflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the
State of Sao Paulo fell by over 20% between November 1980 and April 1983.
For 1982, GUP tell by about 1%, while inflation continued at just below
100%..
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. To support
the Government's 1983 austerity program, in February 1983 the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and the Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983.
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.
A major objective for 1983 is to generate an unprecedented trade surplus of
US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance of payments
deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In order to increase the
chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade surplus target, the
cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983. The cruzeiro will continue



- 4-
to be devalued in line with domestic inflation, implying some additional
real depreciation as external prices rise. Simultaneously, the Government
has temporarily imposed stricter, emergency oriented, import restrictions.
Despite a slow start and continuing adverse international market
conditions, Brazil appears to be on target in attaining the US$6 billion
trade surplus for 1983. By the end of June the cumulative trade surplus
for the first half of the year had reached US$3 billion. While much of the
surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in the
past few months has improved considerably. June 1983's exports exceeded
those of June 1982 by 19%, pushing up the cumulative growth in relation to
the first six months of 1982 to 6%. Reaching the US$6 billion trade
surplus will mean that Brazil's current account deficit will be about US$8
billion or some 3% of GDP.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, (b) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit and commodity subsidies, and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 100% of cost-of-living increases. According to the
Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the program
announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
6% in 1982 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.1/ By May 1983 it had become
apparent that this ambitious target, involving a 7% change in the deficit
as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Because of the failure to
comply with the associated public sector financing requirements in the
Fund's agreement with Brazil, the IMF suspended the second disbursement of
its EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May. Negotiations between the
Brazilian Government and the IMF are currently underway to revise the
stabilization program and the ceilings in the Fund agreement with Brazil.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures. The stabilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty.
Renewed efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public
sector deficit. A more rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies
was announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by the
public sector, such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were substantially
1/   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government estimates of the consolidated public
sector deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate
the accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a
current expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, for this purpose
prefers to treat the monetary correction on the debt as a current
expenditure and to express the public sector's financing requirements
in nominal values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated
into each other, once the rate of inflation is given.



- 5 -
increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public enterprises
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprise budget has been
implemented, involving a further 20% cut in the investments of such firms.
At the same time, wage policy has been modified to provide less than full
cost-of-living indexing to wages and salaries.
14.       Continued support of the international financial community, and
particularly the commercial banks, is necessary for Brazil to achieve the
objectives of the IMF-sanctioned austerity program for 1983 and beyond. To
this end, the Government completed negotiations for a four-Point financial
assistance plan with foreign commercial banks at the end of February. The
banks agreed to (a) extend new loans available in the aggregate of US$4.5
billion, (b) roll over for an additional 8-years US$4.6 billion of medium-
and long-term loans falling due in 1983, (c) make available up to US$9.4
billion in short-term commercial credits, and (d) restore to approximately
US$7.5 billion the level of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas
branches of Brazilian banks (falling short of the original US$10 billion
target for interbank credits). Once these arrangements had been made, IMF
assistance was approved on February 28, 1983. Particular problems have
been experienced with the interbank lending component. The smaller banks
have been especially anxious to reduce their Brazilian exposure; as a
result by July 1983 interbank credits to Brazil amounted to only about
US$5.8 billion. Because of this shortfall, a reduction of expected foreign
direct investment, higher than anticipated interest payments, and other
contingencies, it is expected that Brazil will require an additional US$3-4
billion for 1983. Despite acute short-term liquidity difficulties during
the last year, Brazil, unlike several other countries, has not resorted to
commercial bank interest payment suspensions or unilateral bank debt
rescheduling measures. A new external financing package from the
commercial banks for the remainder of 1983 and 1984 is expected as a
subsequent part of a renegotiated agreement between the Brazilian
Government and the International Monetary Fund.
15.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bears variable interest rates, each 1%
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each
dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill,
which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall by
US$300 million at current consumption levels.
16.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by more than 10%
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum production increased by about
50% over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, have been reduced to an annual level
of US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.



-6-
1/.       In view ot the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years and foreign
lenders, including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a higher
proportion of project costs, including, when necessary, a part of local
costs. The development of domestic energy sources, export promotion,
agriculture, and the stimulation of domestic savings will continue to
require priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with an expected GDP
decrease in 1983 of about 3.5% followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually
increasing growth to about 5% by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario is
compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1987.
19.       The Government expects gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings to
be limited to US$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982.
Such borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$6.5 billion,
constituting a 9% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net M&LT borrowings fall below the 1983 level and the net ML&T
debt service ratio is expected to decline from 82% in 1982 to approximately
69% in 1986.
20.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak
world economy, and attain continued access to international commercial bank
lending. These objectives will not be easily achieved. Moreover, tangible
results of the austerity program are not likely to be seen until the latter
part of 1983. Instances of short-term cash flow problems, therefore,
cannot be ruled out. However, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
diversified, and relatively resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly
demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances. With the
Government's commitment to the austerity program in 1983 and with IMF
support, Brazil should be able to make the adjustments needed to cope with
adverse international circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a
more efficient development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
21.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve



poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy.  Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services.2/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indications, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of the stabilization program on the economy and the necessity to
increase the number of jobs so as to absorb new entrants into the labor
market, it is likely that the austerity measures currently pursued by the
Government impose a disproportionate burden on the poor, particularly in
urban areas.
PAkT II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By March 31, 1983 the Bank had made 119 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$7,672.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 65 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY7U-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1983
was US$3,773.8 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, eight loans totaling
US$722.1 million were approved. In FY83, seven loans totaling US$1,457.5
million were approved. They included US$8.9 million for a project to help
finance the preparation of future investment project in the metropolitan
region of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for
an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for a
third secondary and feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a second
development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and sewerage
sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development project in
the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a Third Agro-Industries credit
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution
of Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September
1979) and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No.
2604-BR, dated July 13, 1979).



- 8 -
project. Work is advanced on an agriculture sector loan, an industrial
sector loan, the third phase project of the Northwest region development
program, a rural electrification project, a power distribution project,
supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and rural development
projects, and a primary health care project in the State of Sao Paulo.
24.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4%.
25.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$921.09 million, of which US$602.62 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$318.47 million, US$248.89 million
represent loans and US$69.58 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
27.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the recently approved Third Agro-Industries Project, financing of a higher
share of project costs during the initial implementation years for the
Second Rural Development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of expenditure. A supplemental financing loan for ongoing
agricultural and rural development projects is also under discussion with
the Government.
28.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign



- 9 -
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been made,
and much of Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the economic flow of
exports. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a
restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of Government
initiatives, are now being considered. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution and poverty
alleviation, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth. Located in Parana, a State where
agricultural production for export is highly developed, the proposed
project would make an indirect contribution in this respect by supporting
the economic role of market towns and raising the productivity on the farm
in neighboring areas.
29.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation.  Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Future
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
30.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the
northwest. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of
Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South,
loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in
medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor.
31.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and



- 10 -
signed with private financial institutions.  Co-financing opportunities are
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new co-financing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
The Process of Urbanization
32.       At the time of the 1980 census, eighty million Brazilians, about
two-thirds of the population of the country, lived in urban areas. This
may be compared with 18.8 million, or 36% of total population, in. 1950.
Since the end of World War II, urbanization has been extremely rapid. The
number of city dwellers increased at an annual rate of 5.3% in the 1950s,
5,1% in the 1960s and 4.4% in the 1970s, while total population grew,
respectively, at the rate of 3%, 2,9% and 2,5% p.a. Brazil now has a dozen
cities of more than one million inhabitants; since 1960, however, the
cities with 100,000 to 200,000 inhabitants have expanded faster than the
largest centers. While the twelve metropolitan regions account for nearly
30% of the population of the country, there is evidence of a movement from
the coast to the less densely populated interior.
33.       With the influx of the rural poor into the towns, urban poverty
became much more prevalent. In the Brazilian context, the poverty group
comprises urban families with incomes less than three times the regional
minimum wage, roughly corresponding to the Bank's concept of "relative
poverty". About three quarters of the population of metropolitan Recife in
the Northeast were in that category at the beginning of the 1970s, and so
were well over 50% of the inhabitants of Curitiba in the better-off South.
34.       Shelter, infrastructure and public services have lagged far
behind the exploding demand. Between 1964 and 1977, the number of urban
households increased by about 6.7 million, or 480,000 annually. With the
Brazilian housing finance system providing for the construction of 125,000
housing units annually, approximately three quarters of the new households
had to dwell in improvised shelter. As a result, 20% of urban housing
structures in the country were considered sub-standard by 1970; 63% were in
that category in the Recife metropolitan region. In the mid-1970s, 35% of
the dwellings in Sao Paulo had inadequate water supply and 65% had no
sewerage; in Natal, in the Northeast, well over 80% of the houses were not
connected to the sewer network. Public transport services could obviously
not keep pace -- in the late 1960s and early 1970s -- with a 9% annual rise
in daily passenger trips by all transport modes in the nine metropolitan
regions. Construction and paving of roads between the places where people
lived and where they worked presented an overwhelming task. Urban growth
was too fast to be organized and regulated; in the 1950s and the 1960s,
there was little spatial planning, zoning, or coordination of land use and
transport infrastructure.



- 11 -
Federal Policies and Institutions
35.       Although the Federal Government did not formulate a consistent
urban policy until the mid-1970s, it did endeavour to deal with the
situation throughout the 1950s and 1960s. In an effort to confront the
deficient housing conditions, a National Housing Bank (BNH) was
established in 1964 to mobilize domestic savings and channel them into
*        construction of dwellings.  Three years later, the BNH was assigned
responsibility for the sanitation sector. Gradually, other urban
infrastructure and services gravitated into its purview. BNH coordinates
and finances large nationwide investment programs, but does not execute and
administer them; this is done by local intermediaries at the State and
municipal levels. In 1971, BNH launched the National Sanitation Plan
(PLANASA), with the aim of supplying piped water to some 5,700 urban
communities and building sewage disposal facilities in all centers over
100,000 inhabitants. In 1973, it set up a planning framework for
low-income housing (PLANHAB); the plans are implemented through State and
municipally owned low-cost housing companies (COHABs), which build
dwellings and sell them to selected beneficiaries. Two years later, BNH
put together a sites-and-services financing scheme (PROFILURB) to promote
low-cost shelter for the urban poor and counter-balance the widespread
tendency of constructing finished middle-class housing on costly land.
36.       The preparation of the National Development Plan for 1975-79
provided the occasion for formulating a nationwide urban policy. Attention
centered on the problems of the metropolitan areas of Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro, and on the disparate economic and social infrastructure among --
and within -- the country's regions. The emerging policy directives were
to arrest metropolitan growth in Sao Paulo/Rio and in the North of the
country, contain urban expansion in the South and Center-West, strengthen
and diversify metropolitan economies in the Northeast, and achieve a
balanced urban hierarchy by attracting migrants to medium-sized cities with
better employment prospects and living conditions. The National Commission
on Metropolitan Regions and Urban Policy (CNPU), an inter-ministerial
advisory body, was created in 1974 to coordinate urban development plans
and lay down urban policy guidelines. Shortly thereafter, a share of taxes
on vehicle registration, fuel and lubricants, was earmarked for a National
Urban Development Fund (FNDU); about three quarters of resources accruing
to FNDU have since been invested in urban transport.
37.       In 1976, the Federal Government established the Brazilian Urban
Transport Company (EBTU), an autonomous non-profit corporation,
subordinated to the Ministry of Transport. EBTU is in charge of urban
transport development, construction and rehabilitation of urban roads,
traffic engineering and standardization of public transport equipment; it
also controls resources allocated to urban transport. In the first five
years of its existence, EBTU invested annually about US$300 million
equivalent, mainly in bus services but also in suburban railway systems.  A
comprehensive framework for EBTU activities, in the form of a National
Urban Transport Policy Statement, was drawn up in the first half of 1980.
This stressed greater efficiency and maximum use of existing systems,
energy savings through heavier reliance on public transport, primarily
suburban rail and trolley services, integration of transport and land use
planning, and better technology and safety. Additional resources were
budgeted to enable EBTU to expand investment in urban transport.



- 12 -
38.       A less firmly defined National Development Plan for 1980-85
generally re-stated the previously adopted objectives for the urban sector,
while emphasizing rural development as a means of slowing down the process
of urbanization. An authoritative determination of urban policy for the
early 1980s came from the National Urban Development Council (CNDU), which
replaced CNPU in 1979. The paramount aim of this policy is to deflect
migration from metropolitan regions and direct it toward medium-sized and
small urban centers, thus containing the growth and the ever more costly
infrastructure needs of the large cities. This is to be accomplished
through the distribution of federal urban development grants. CNDU, which
allocates these funds, has become the highest decision-making and
coordinating body for the urban sector. Chaired by the Interior Minister,
it is comprised of the Deputy Ministers of Interior, Transport, Finance,
and Industry and Commerce, the Secretary General of SEPLAN, and the
Presidents of BNH and EBTU. Contrary to the CNPU, which because of its
advisory character had little influence, the CNDU appears to be more
effective in carrying out national urban policy.
Bank Assistance to the Urban Sector
39.       The Bank has financially supported the Federal Government's
development efforts in the urban sphere since 1971. The early loans were
for water distribution and sewage disposal facilities; lending for other
municipal infrastructure and public services began in 1978. The ten
operations in the water and sewerage sector total US$1,074.3 million. The
Bank's association with PLANASA has become very close, and the Bank can
look back at a long period of fruitful cooperation with the BNH and several
State-owned water companies.
40.       In the urban sector, the Bank's contribution has been smaller but
well diversified, Seven loans were made in the past five years for an
aggregate of US$632.8 million. Three of these, accounting for US$337
million, were for urban transport; the first and the third financed
improvement and expansion of public transport infrastructure and services
in a number of cities, while the second paid for re-equipment and
modernization of the Porto Alegre suburban rail system. Of the other four
loans, one helped BNH to carry out a sites-and-services program; the
purpose of the second was to provide municipal infrastructure and services
for the poorer inhabitants of several medium-sized cities; the third and
largest loan was designed to alleviate poverty in the metropolitan region
of Recife through priority investment and employment creation, and to bring
on a more efficient administration; finally, a recent small engineering
loan meets the cost of preparing development programs for the metropolitan
regions of Fortaleza and Salvador.
41.       As yet, no performance audit report has been prepared on an urban
project in Brazil, other than that for a water supply and pollution control
project. Nevertheless, some observations may be offered regarding their
execution. The first urban transport and the sites-and-services projects
are nearing completion, without undue delays and drastic reformulation.
After early delays, formal amendments to the medium-sized cities project
were instituted and the Closing Date postponed by two years. The second
urban transport project is progressing satisfactorily. Execution of the
third urban transport project is behind schedule; corrective measures have
been taken. The Loan Agreement for the Recife Metropolitan Region Project



- 13 -
was declared effective in November 1982; at that time, some difficulties
were emerging in respect to availability of local funds. The engineering
loan for Fortaleza and Salvador became effective in December 1982.
PART IV - URBAN GROWTH IN PARANA
Economic and Social Change
42.       In the State of Parana, about 4.5 million people, or 59% of the
State's population, lived in urban areas at the time of the 1980 census.
Parana accounts for 6.4% of Brazil's total population and for only 2.3% of
its territory. The State's economic performance and potential, based on
entrepreneurial talent and agricultural wealth, is exemplified by its 25%
contribution to the country's exports. The proximity of the metropolitan
market of Sao Paulo has stimulated the development of industry. In
particular, the processing of agricultural, forestry and livestock
production has come to the fore, as a result of the diversified and
forward-looking nature of Parana's agriculture. Between 1970 and 1980,
both sales and property transfer tax collections have more than tripled.
The State ranks high in capital formation and relies largely on its own
resources for development; compared with many other States, its
indebtedness is limited and federal transfers are modest.
43,       Mainly through immigration from other States and from overseas,
the population of Parana grew at an annual rate of more than 7% in the
1950s and 5% in the 1960s. Employment opportunities were many and the
rapidly expanding labor force was readily absorbed. In the decade of the
1970s, however, economic progress caused social strain. The population
expanded at less than 1% per annum as over 1 million people left the State
for Sao Paulo and the Western confines. During the same period, Parana
witnessed a burst of urbanization; the number of town dwellers rose by 6%
per annum, whereas the rural population declined by 3.3% per annum. The
rapid process of consolidation of land-holdings and the progressive
mechanization of farming precipitated the exodus of sharecroppers, farm
laborers and seasonal workers; and the mounting price of land induced many
smallholders to sell their farms and settle on larger tracts of land in the
western frontier States. Simultaneously, the organization of cooperatives
and bulk purchases of farm products by agro-industry displaced numerous
independent traders and middlemen, and left them unemployed and uprooted.
Municipal Finance
44.       Today, Parana's urban hierarchy is fairly well developed.  In
addition to metropolitan Curitiba with 1.3 million inhabitants, and a
Northern belt of eleven cities with an aggregate population of nearly
700,000, the State has 287 towns of less than 50,000 people which are the
seat of municipal government for 287 self-governing political units
(municipios). Provision of urban infrastructure, shelter and social
services is mostly the responsibility of the States and the
municipalities. State budgets are heavily dependent on receipts from the
value added tax (ICM), collected by the States, and on shares of federal
taxes and grants. Municipalities are constitutionally limited to two



14 -
exclusive tax bases:  they collect the urban real estate tax (IPTU), and a
service tax (ISS) on the gross value of service performed or the
remuneration of a self-employed person. In addition, they levy certain
charges, most importantly betterment charges on urban properties benefiting
from street-related improvements. The other main source of municipal
revenue are federal and State transfers; the former consist of grants and
shares in federal taxes, the latter primarily of a 20% share in the
proceeds of the ICM. While the larger cities in Parana have a broader tax
base, and benefit from a larger share in ICM proceeds and from selective
access to long-term credit, the smaller towns have a very narrow tax base
and get smaller amounts of the ICM. A study of 50 municipal budgets,
selected from among the 287 municipalities, for the years 1980, 1981 and
1982, shows that municipal taxes and other local receipts averaged nearly
40% of annual budget revenue in towns of 20-50,000 inhabitants and less
than 10% in urban areas of less than 2,500 inhabitants. For all 50 towns,
the average proportion of current expenditure financed by locally-generated
revenues including the ICM was 72%. Moreover, an analysis of a smaller
sample of 32 municipal budgets for the five-year period 1977-81 reveals
that current expenditure was rising rapidly, while local receipts were
expanding very slowly in the smallest towns, making them even more
dependent on federal and State transfers,
The CIATA/FAMEPAR Program
45.       To strengthen the financial position of the smaller
municipalities throughout Brazil, the Federal Ministry of Finance
established in 1974 a joint technical assistance program based on
agreements concluded by the Federal Government, the States and the
municipalities. The program, referred to as CIATA, aims at increasing the
efficiency of municipal tax administration.  It consists of revising the
municipal tax code, setting up -- or revising -- urban property cadastres
to include all land and buildings subject to taxation, assessing property
values, and training municipal administrators in the preparation of real
estate tax bills and in the processing of tax returns;  it further includes
drawing up -- or revising -- municipal economic cadastres in order to
identify the activities subject to service taxation, With 120 market towns
already implementing the program, Parana is a leader in fostering CIATA,
which is administered in the State by the Municipal Assistance Foundation
(FAMEPAR). Although it is too early to determine the full impact of CIATA,
the data available for Parana demonstrate that the program has resulted in
more comprehensive and accurate urban property cadastres, more efficient
billing of landlords and a rising revenue from real estate taxes. CIATA
has thus laid the groundwork for better fiscal performance of the
municipalities and has enhanced the chances for a more efficient recovery
of the cost of urban investment in the smaller towns of Parana. However,
the advantages of the CIATA program may be whittled down over time. In
several communities, town mayors are often reluctant to reassess land
values in line with inflation and prefer to solicit larger federal and
State grants.
Market Towns Improvement Program
46.       The role of the small towns as markets for farm products,
distributors of farm inputs and suppliers of social services to surrounding



- 15 -
rural areas, is crucial to economic activity. To assist in their
modernization, and to attract to them migrating rural populations in line
with the objectives of the CNDU, the State of Parana undertook at the
beginning of 1981 a special Capital Improvement Program and set up an ad
hoc Special Secretariat for Municipal Development (SEDM) attached to the
Parana Planning Secretariat (SEPL). SEDM was to carry out the program and
coordinate the activities of FAMEPAR, the Parana Public Works Company
(EMOPAR) and the Parana Housing Company (COHAPAR). Concurrently, it
provided technical assistance to promote investment planning at the
municipal level and encourage the municipalities to carry out small urban
projects. By the end of 1982, investment under the program amounted to
US$49 million equivalent. In 1983, SEPL assumed direct responsibility for
the program, raising the investment target, with the concurrence of CNDU,
to US$150 million equivalent for the five-year period 1983-87. Because of
the political transition resulting from the elections of November 1982,
public investment activity has ebbed and US$7 million equivalent only is
expected to be spent during 1983; however, an estimated US$40 million
equivalent would be invested in 1984, US$60 million in 1985 and US$40
million in 1986 and 1987.
Bank Supported Projects in Parana
47.       A number of Bank-financed projects and project components are
located in the State of Parana. Highway sections, feeder roads and
municipal roads were built within its borders, high voltage transmission
lines cross its territory, and water supply and sewage disposal facilities
were constructed in its large, medium-sized and small centers. A
fertilizer plant and agro-industries were established in the State. In the
late 1970s, the Bank signed a Project Agreement with the city of Curitiba
and EBTU, for the first urban transport project, and entered into two Loan
Agreements with Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica (COPEL) together
with a Project Agreement with its majority shareholder, the State of
Parana. In 1980, the Bank concluded a Loan Agreement with several parties,
including the State of Parana and Companhia de Saneamento do Parana
(SANEPAR). The performance of the signatories of these Agreements has been
satisfactory; several of the projects or project components were executed
and completed and have achieved their objectives.
48.       Well-established contacts between the Bank and Parana prompted
the State, with CNDU backing, to ask the Bank to support its capital
improvement program for small market towns and thus help bring about a
balanced investment effort benefiting all echelons of the urban hierarchy.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Project Description
49.       The project was identified in May 1982 and prepared by SEDM.  A
Bank mission appraised the project in October 1982. The mission's report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Parana Market Towns Improvement Project"
dated May 4, 1983 is being circulated separately. Negotiation with the
Borrower and the State of Parana were held from April- 11 through 13, 1983



- 16 -
at the Borrower's headquarters in Brasilia. The Brazilian delegation was
led by Dr. Belmiro Jobim Valverde Castor, Secretary of Planning, State of
Parana. A supplemental project data sheet including a timetable of key
events and a summary of special conditions is attached as Annex III.
50.       The purpose of the proposed project is to continue during the
five years 1983-87 the Capital Improvement Program launched by the State of
Parana in 1981 (para. 46). The project would support the Program by
providing market towns in Parana, which have less than 50,000 inhabitants
each and are the seat of municipal government for the 287 participating
municipios, with infrastructure, public services and social facilities,
enhance their role in the Parana economy, strengthen their fiscal
administration, and serve as a model for urban development activities of
the CNDU. The main categories of investment would be street paving, storm
drainage, water and electricity distribution, street lighting, sewage
disposal facilities, slum upgrading, schools and kindergartens, health
posts, community centers and sport grounds. Equipment would be purchased
to improve and maintain farm-to-market roads and to expand local stone
quarries; vehicles would be procured to convey children to school; and
technical assistance would be extended, mainly by State corporations and
utility companies.   Eligible municipalities would receive a mix of Bank
and State funds. Ineligible municipalities, which had reached their debt
limitation ceiling and could not borrow, would receive State grant funds
(para. 57). Both eligible and ineligible municipalities would prepare
investment plans along guidelines set forth in the Manual on Lending
Policies and Procedures and these plans would be supervised by SEPL, CNDU,
SDU, FAMEPAR and the Bank. The project is the first attempt by a Brazilian
State to carry out small town capital improvements as part of a
comprehensive urban development effort, which already includes a
metropolitan region and several medium-sized cities. These improvements
would benefit also the farming population of the surrounding area, and
should attract private enterprise to the smaller towns. The CNDU expects
the project to result in a better pattern of population distribution and
employment opportunities in Parana, which could be reproduced in other
States.
Project Cost
51.       The cost of the Program is estimated at the equivalent of
US$150.2 million, including the front-end fee on the proposed loan. The
base cost of US$119.3 million equivalent has been determined in light of
current experience in executing similar projects in Parana.  At US$77.5
million, infrastructure would be the largest component; public services
and social facilities would account for another US$27.5 million. Equipment
and vehicles, and technical assistance, would call for an expenditure of
US$8.3 million and US$6 million, respectively. An average of 10% has been
allowed for physical increases in all investment categories. Price



- 17 -
contingencies have been estimated at 15.7%3/. The foreign exchange
component would represent about 35% of the project cost. This proportion
was arrived at by breaking down the cost of each investment category of
recently executed projects and corresponds to the estimates made for other
urban projects in Brazil.
Financing Plan and Relending Terms
52.       The project would not call for a Federal Government
contribution. The entire local component, amounting to US$97.5 million
equivalent or 65% of the total cost, would be financed by the State in the
form of annual grants to the 287 participating municipios. During
negotiations, the new State administration endorsed the project and
commited the State of Parana to support it financially.
53.       The proposed loan of US$52.7 million (including a front-end fee
of about US$0.2 million) would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil
and would finance the entire foreign exchange component or 35% of the
Program's cost. It would have a term of 15 years, including three years of
grace, and bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. Under an
on-lending arrangement, the Federal Government would pass on the proceeds
of the loan to the State of Parana on the same terms, the State thereby
assuming the foreign exchange risk and the interest risk on the Bank's
loan. The State of Parana -- through its State Bank (BANESTADO) -- would
make cruzeiro subloans, to those participating municipalities which would
apply and would be judged creditworthy. The subloans would have a term of
10 years, including a grace period of up to three years. They would bear
interest at the rate being applied by the National Housing Bank (BNH) to
its loans for infrastructure in the larger cities in Parana; currently,
this rate is 6% per annum on the indexed principal. Principal would be
adjusted following at a minimum the UPC and such adjustment would be
satisfactory to the Bank. In line with the prevailing practice, each
borrowing municipality would pledge its share of the value-added tax (ICM),
collected by the State, as collateral for the subloan (Schedule 1, A and B
of the Project Agreement).
54.       In certain instances, municipalities may contribute to the
project resources additional to those provided by the Bank and the State.
These resources would take the form of local labor or materials;
exceptionally, they may be in money and not in kind. Whenever a
municipality would volunteer a contribution in support of the sub-project
being carried out by it, the scope of the sub-project would become
correspondingly larger.
3/   Price increases are expressed in US dollars for foreign and local
costs assuming inflation rates of 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for
1985 and 6% thereafter. Coupled with the four-year investment period
for items included in the project, the price contingency is somewhat
lower than would be required for projects with longer investment
periods.



- 18 -
Resource Allocation
55.       Since the inception in 1981 of the Capital Improvement Program,
the resources appropriated for it in the State budget have been apportioned
among the municipalities according to the size of their population, as
shown in the 1980 census. This system failed to take into account the
economic and fiscal condition, and the rate of urban growth, of the
individual municipalities; and it did not pay special attention to the
degree of the recovery of the investment cost. Moreover, SEDM put ceiling
amounts on the various investment categories regardless of the specific
levels of demand, thus distorting investment priorities.
56.       The method of allocating State grants has now been reviewed and
revised.  New allocation criteria have been worked out and laid down in a
Manual on Lending Policies and Procedures agreed with the Bank (Schedule 1,
A(1) and B(1) to the draft Project Agreement).4! The annual appropriations
for the project will from now on be distributed among six sub-regions
within the State with preference given to sub-regions with inadequate urban
endowment and fastest growing population and output. In each sub-region,
the funds will be appropriated among the participating municipalities in
accordance with the size of the urban population, corrected for its
relative contribution to the economy of Parana. Thus, the level of, and
the prospects for, urban development would be used from now on to refine
the principle of per capita distribution of State resources.
57.       The criteria for allocating the proceeds of the proposed loan
among the municipalities interested in borrowing additional resources,
would be creditworthiness, the ability to apply the funds to the project
diligently and efficiently, and the capacity to operate and maintain the
facilities in which the funds were invested (Schedules 1 and 2 to the draft
Project Agreement). Whether a municipality is solvent and capable of
servicing a subloan would be determined by BANESTADO, following conditions
elaborated in Federal Resolution No. 62 of October 1975. These conditions
limit the outstanding debt to 70% of total revenue in the previous year
(adjusted for inflation), restrict debt incurred in any year to 20% of
total revenue for that year, and provide that debt service in any year must
not exceed 15% of total revenue of the previous year (adjusted for
inflation). The interest in borrowing for the purposes of the project
appears to be widespread among municipal governments. Well over one-half
of them are expected to meet the allocation criteria, thereby enabling at
least 150 market towns to borrow and receive the proceeds of the Bank's
loan.
Project Execution
58.       The project would be executed in five years, with the investment
period spanning the first four years. Two-thirds of the investment would
be made in the second and third year. In general, the subprojects would be
4/   Agreement on the essential provisions of the Manual was reached during
negotiations. However, the finalization of the Manual requires
further consultations with the Bank and Bank approval of the Manual
will be a condition of loan signature.



- 19 -
small and the works simple. Specifications and standards laid down by the
the utility companies would be applied in drainage and sewage disposal
works, and in water and electricity distribution. Design of social
facilities would be carried out by FAMEPAR. The administration and
supervision of the Capital Improvement Program has now been taken over by
the Parana Planning Secretariat (SEPL) with most of SEDM personnel
remaining on the job (para. 46).
59.       Sub-projects for 1983 were selected by SEDM in 1982, in line with
experience gained during the first two years of the capital improvement
program. Some changes may have to be introduced in light of the evaluation
by BANESTADO of the financial capacity of the individual municipalities.
Sub-project proposals for 1984 would be drawn up by the municipalities with
the technical assistance of FAMEPAR. They would then be appraised and
approved by SEPL, following the guidelines laid down in the Manual for both
grant- and loan-financed works. The appraisal would dwell on the demand
for services, technical soundness, cost effectiveness, and economic and
social impact.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Most of the civil works  would be procured through local
competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank. Parana contractors would
continue executing the works with labor-intensive methods. Minor civil
works (costing less than $10,000) could be undertaken by force account
which would represent a contribution by the municipality. Such works would
not exceed US$34 million of the total cost of US$ 150.2 million. Up to
US$28.5 million of the goods procured under the loan could be undertaken on
the basis of price quotations from not less than three suppliers or
manufacturers, Goods and works would be packaged whenever appropriate
(Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement). About 600
contracts, between US$10,000 and US$200,000 in value, are expected to be
awarded annually. Under Brazilian procedures, foreign firms would be
permitted to bid. However, the small size and scattered nature of the
works makes it unlikely to attract outside contractors or suppliers. The
largest equipment items would be road maintenance machinery and school
buses.
61.       Disbursement of the proposed loan which finances 35% of the
Program's cost, would be for 50% of civil works and 35% of materials,
vehicles and equipment on sub-projects executed by eligible municipalities
to which sub-loans had been made. The Bank would disburse 35% of technical
assistance for eligible and ineligible municipalities, the latter comprised
of those municipalities which had reached their debt limitation ceiling and
could not borrow. The balance of sub-project costs which are in ineligible
municipalities would be financed by the State. In view of the large number
of contracts and relatively small payments, all disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditures. The State Account Tribunal maintains
computerized records of municipal outlays, on the basis of which SEPL would
prepare consolidated statements of expenditure on the project and submit
them to the Bank together with physical progress reports. In order to
reduce the interval between payment by the Borrower and reimbursement by
the Bank, a Special Account would be opened in US dollars at the Central
Bank of Brazil with an initial deposit of up to US$3.8 million.



- 20 -
Disbursements would rise rapidly in calendar 1984 and reach their peak in
calendar 1985; the Closing Date would be December 31, 1987.
Cost Recovery
62.       The State of Parana first conceived of the Capital Improvement
Program as a tool to correct inequities among the municipalities in their
shares of ICM proceeds. The assumption was that by financing urban
investment with State resources, the Program would free municipal resources
for the operation and maintenance of urban services and facilities. In
consequence, the recovery of the investment cost was not given due
attention at State level; the initiative in this respect was left to the
municipal governments. At present, the recovered proportion of the cost
varies with the nature of the sub-project, the size of the town and the
economic condition of the population.
63.       Under the proposed project, cost recovery procedures would be
reviewed and tightened. To be eligible to borrow, a municipality would
have to present to the State a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank,
for improved collection of fiscal revenues, including betterment and other
charges, and the urban real estate tax, and put such plan into effect on a
timetable acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 2 to the draft Project
Agreement). On the whole-, infrastructure and public services have a
satisfactory record of cost recovery. These project components account for
72% of its total cost. The cost of educational, health and other social
facilities, and of technical assistance, is not being charged directly to
the beneficiaries and recovered. These components represent 28% of the
project cost.
64.       Street-related capital imprdvements in the larger market towns
should result, within a year or two, in 100% recovery by way of betterment
charges payable by owners of abutting properties; in the smaller towns, the
proportion would be lower, particularly where the work is carried out by
force account and the cost of labor is not recovered. Public services
would generate income from user charges. These should be set at a level
which would permit recovery of the annual cost of operation and
maintenance, and a proportion of the capital cost, without jeopardizing the
affordability of the service to the general public. In addition, with the
periodic reassessment of urban real estate in municipalities which adopted
the CIATA program (para. 45), a growing proportion of the capital cost of
infrastructure and public services would be recovered in the form of the
IPTU tax (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). Overall, about 50%
of the cost of the project is expected to be recovered by the
municipalities within a few years after its completion. The remainder of
the investment would be recovered over a longer period of time through user
charges and real estate tax on the reassessed properties.
Economic Justification
65.       Investment in urban development shows significant economic and
social benefits. Better infrastructure results, inter alia, in lower
transport cost, cheaper vehicle operation and street maintenance, faster
delivery and reduced loss on perishable produce, higher rental value of
property and larger receipts from real estate tax. Briefly, the urban



- 21 -
economy becomes more productive. Better public services, schools and
dispensaries improve living and working conditions. They also attract
private investment, which offers employment and stimulates fiscal revenue.
Urban progress enhances demand for the products of surrounding farm lands,
facilitates purchases of agricultural inputs, and enables the rural
population to avail itself of the social amenities.
66.       However, the economic benefits of many urban investments are
difficult to measure.  In the case of the proposed project, some components
do not lend themselves to a quantification of benefits. For selected
market towns of various sizes, rates of return were calculated on a
representative sample of sub-projects showing quantifiable benefits.  These
sub-projects include street paving, storm drainage, water pipes,
electricity connections and sewage disposal facilities. The overall return
on these investment categories, accounting for about two-thirds of the
total project cost, would be 26%.
Risks
67.       The proposed project breaks new ground in several respects and
therefore presents somewhat greater uncertainties and risks than more
traditional projects. These risks involve essentially four types of
questions:
(a) execution delays and associated delays in benefits;
(b) lower than estimated benefits because of disappointing
private sector response;
(c) higher than estimated costs; and
(d) disappointing institutional improvements, which may preclude
replication of the project concept elsewhere.
68,       Execution delays most frequently result from shortages of local
funds. As noted above, these are not expected to be a problem in this
case; the State -- not the Federal Government -- must provide these funds
and it is judged to have the needed financial strength. Nor would the
project involve many different levels of government, whose effective
coordination at times is a major problem.
69.       The response of private investors -- on which many of the project
benefits depend -- is notoriously difficult to predict. In this area, the
main reasons for confidence are Parana's past record and the large number
of different locations on which sub-projects would be executed; while in
some municipalities the response may be disappointing for local reasons,
this is unlikely to be a general phenomenon.
70.       The risk of underestimating costs is not particularly great.  The
types of investment that would be financed are well known and if the
general level of inflation proves higher than expected, it is likely to
affect benefits as well.



- 22 -
71.       The proposed project has the full backing of the CNDU.  Its
initiative and influence would determine the chances for seeing the project
replicated elsewhere in the country. A strong argument could be made for
adopting the concept of the project in other States of Brazil, once its
benefits have been demonstrated. However, if the institutional
improvements in the sphere of investment planning and fiscal administration
fell short of expectations, the prospects for repeating the project concept
elsewhere would be reduced.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
State of Parana, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
74.       In addition to the features of the Loan and Project Agreement
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the
following feature is of particular interest:
Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement provides that the
execution of an agreement between the Borrower, the State of Parana
and BANESTADO, satisfactory to the Bank, which is legally binding,
and containing the same terms and conditions as the Bank's loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil would be a condition of
effectiveness.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 4, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
196b        1970'   ESTIMATS-        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK)
TOTAL                                8512.0       8512.0      8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                         1621.3       1981.2      2209.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     330.0        610.0       2220.0             2088.2                      2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        385.0        577.0      1102.0              1407.6                     1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   72594.0        95847.0    120507.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          46.1         55.9         68.2               65.9                       47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               176.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 299.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           8.5         11.3        13.9               35.6                        82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               44.8         48.4        53.6                93.2                      157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            43.6         42.7        41.1                40.1                       31.9
15-64 YRS                            53.8         54.3        55.4                55.8                       60.9
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6          3.1          3.5                4.1                         7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (B)
TOTAL                                 3.1          2.8          2.1                2.3                        1.6
URBAN                                 5.5          4.7          3.9                3.7                        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           42.7         35.0         30.5               31.5                       25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           12.9         10.3          8.2                8.1                         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          2.4          1.9                2.0                         1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..        111.0       203.6/c
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOIZN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          89.0        102.0       128.0               113.0                      108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)        106.0        104.0       109.0               111.3                      129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.0         62.0        61.0                67.9                       92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           35.0        34.0         36.0/d             34.1                        34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            19.4         12.5          6.9                5.3                       10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          54.7         58.9         63.6               64.6                        67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         118.2         98.6        75.4                62.6                       71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                  ..         55.0         77.1/e             64.8
URBAN                                  ..         78.0        88.8Te              77.8
RURAL                                  ..         28.0         56.87e             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         58.0         64.8/e             54.6
URBAN                                  ..         85.0        83.77e              69.8
RURAL                                  ..         24.0        31.77e-             29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2670.0       2130.0      1700.0/f            1776.0                     1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              2810.0       1120.0       820.07?            1012.2                       762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               310.0        270.0       250.0/e             477.0                      334.0
URBAN                               260.0        320.0          .-               667.5                      216.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         18.4           ..               27.2                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1          4.8          4.9/e
URBAN                                  ..          4.6         4.77..
RURAL                                  ..          5.2          5.37e.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  *           1.1
URBAN                                              1.0
RURAL                                  ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                38.7         47.6         67.4
URBAN                                  ..         75.6         88.5
RURAL                                  ..          8.4        20.6
_--_____________ ___________-- ___-- ___--------_ ---_ --------___ --_________________ ________________ ________ --______ _______-_-_____



ANN EX 
- 24 -                                              Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlIEET
BRAZIL                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RUCENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b   /b  1RECENT            MIDDLE INCOMLE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b       1970- ESTIMATE-          LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRU.MARY:   TOTAL                    95.0          84.0         93.0/g            105.0                        102.2
GALE                      97.0         84.0         93.0/g            106.3                        107.2
FEMALE                    93.0         84.0         93.07g            103.6                         97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      11.0         26.0         32.0/g,h           40.0                         56.5
MALE                      11.0         26.0         29.0/g,h           38.6                         63.4
FEMALE                    10.0         27.0         35.O/gh            41.2                         48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             18.6         16.7         59.2/g,h           34.0                         22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               33.0         28.0         26.0               30.7                         24.7
SECONDARY                             13.U         13.0         14.0/h             16.7                        22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 61.0         66.2         76.0                79.5                        69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              7.6         16.6         50.1               45.6                         52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/TEOUSAND POP            65.4        108.4        169.3              228.2                        165.5
TV RECEIVERS/TIHOUSAND POP              16.5         44.3        122.7              108.3                        124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                39.1         35.6         44.6/h             64.1                         96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          4.4          2.0          1.9/h               2.9                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            23326.0      30411.0      35254.0
FEMiALE (PERCENT)                     17.2         20.1         28.5               24.8                        34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 51.9         45.6         29.9               31.3                         40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    14.8         18.3         24.4               23.9                         23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.1         31.7         29.3               31.3                         42.0
MALE                                  52.7         50.3         50.9               49.8                         55.2
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8         14.1               14.8                         29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4          1.5                 1.4                         0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIG'dEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
IIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             60.0         63.5         62.0/c
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               3.8          3.2          2.8/c
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSENOLDS              10.8          9.0          9.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
'ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERIY INCOME
LEVEL (US0   PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..              289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        150.0/c            184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        465.0/d            519.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        332.07W            372.1                        409.0
ESTIMLATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..
RURAL
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; Id 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974; /g Beginning 1973 primary and secondary education cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
instead of 7-10 and 11-17 in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;
/h 1978.
May 1983



pUS 'USq.P '90      0990         I0USU         ..).99S6991  9991U5  lI ...UU9
'UUS190   ,69Ts9 991 ft99U19; U9 AS- 991
9USIUS90, 91? 09 1..00  .U. U5910) Uo9l9odod 90 959191  -91-  P-1                  1U     _-'9SS  990 19991 t9dU9P--..  --I 9....99.9905999.  9 I..1.9'900
99910 - (UU91UA) 790U9 IUUUUI OUOUOUJ911S90099 SUSO U_1_s6o6U  99A190115        ....0 .599UU9900009U910           q2 Os  99p-p99..  o  Ass..     o    01
--99USUP       910090  9900-1PT969T909  __0U0PSP  ~190 T ...T                     5019V9UO   2090PUOUI_  I966   91    1109099692   99
15519   09 OI lp0  9 T9USIi -             OO  9   0  1U1   sUSI                            0  0'SOU9OU  91USOU   d99  9   999    o  O                            q9. 0999
S99699  96 99910S 10 P190-SUC09 99-1  -OUU 0TA 96  U10 -1900                       90    9;d   59919P9001   U9U9   0995199   959015
IP.PI -PI 41M.  -1    199P.,                     _;9  1O(.199099191   910   U1U99  10U)999  9  900
950 59 9U9U991969U OoU-USO 1~ OOUS9U9096 SU 9 SUSSUPO 619509U1150             - pSII PUS  0911 'T009P- (5955PI60q30 10.1..) 9999 19s9-59p ,10
..T.T9 U9   099901  SOP991   9919000  699q9006I--  01005l'50  1961 P"- 0161 '0961 1S9191q 9099P.. USSSUIS -do P o j0996
qUI15UI '1PUSU    U19011US 9959                                                                       05    6611- 9669 '0961 191119 q
SI'9S91S~U1               SloP 196  PU--66  '0961 1S9T900 1999  -U2  PUU1I9-P  -9p5910U
90U119P p1SUd     S  Pl9 'UUI--d 0Z  --ISd 'U0966S991U9191UaUT99T-9p   0  10  IIUI  -99  99111 PI -01P999U.  1 UU                                        PA~ 9-1 600,99.
6  59U1  A6q PU090-9  - (PUlp P09 95-U 09 9100) ....U IU59-A  1099U9I9 OO&VUPdPI P--9009  10  09199-                  9W- (p--"SO9  19) 9199 9199  16I  9s)999
S0I96010961Pl 0160961161  X                                                                     '-51-5V.. - 9 ,-
-U l1 P9U5 09 905 S1 ISPUO U-9-S,,dU6 10 0959,   0999AOU U  ....U...                                             '9P 0961 P-- 6661A'996   AU19p9   101P11
SO910   9999901_0  'U15  'IUO   US11 p9UdSO  9106 P"99 '156T11U0                             P09U90U9990Ud '66            q p19S1991S51119UP0U 995T 1U1 5TU9U0d1"I'd
90 0U9U59U10151    190199  US '0990'991U1 T (UUUUlOI  UUUUOs                          9U5S   9                              T_9 991696019'9  196 -p09 Jo  --ToSTI
a. IT   I  Id       p    P,'90  161  05061P19lU TU-                             0UUU09U06-(9   9   OSO   991   U9[IS919   9
.... 9010  '19.99'0909-1113 0J --(9901-) 9P1100190                                       9010   109 99900  69191699 P 00 99999- 00N  -A9 p9151d99.9100991
'0961 !.-.I ..q~             0099 166  910  -66  '9961 P999000690                     '9d9990  '.99  9909..09               ..960  0 ... '9109 .... .9 9 ....    "a10
9090910, ''019 'SUU9P0Us  '091909-ipPo 19p.0699   0  000                             9  919   9  6199000 0  999190-911        6609 1.TlPd0909  90 . 101T991909 ... 1009
,P91  9099901  '900.116I 910  A10900;100909)916019   00901   Ap900d --0                                             d - (911-9...196199910   91909 6901=   9991906-
-q '4-51j .2.T-j--d)                                                 -P         p-  J_'3j19906dP09P-90                                     '9IQlop
A                                                                                                PTT~~~~~16   0  661'916    519999610006909019010099
--.3 -q.1 "I., 1. l2.IP.P-d -'011990 99990                                       99 6190000            P 909..00 ..0pIA910Z9009   '(p9p00  910 099 p1..  903100
P9900000 Z    1P1- '00-d 99009 I_O9PlOI0 a -o901 (l       UO-4 lp 00- 011060d _ 16_0 - pOl ... (0~bl(-6961 --d0011  000pO   POOdA 10 19 I'd
9001909016 9 00 090160p'099l0O909090919610I1 9019oo99 6990 ,,,1000119100090-d60161.P  9-T-                                                       9 99P-
09 9000p00.9  009 00101101 96   (001101606 p00900I 196 )AI 900910  9                                                                            '0919016 .IP~    -1p   P.   1    1lilapzl  l
0909  900911910992090`01960 --  191000  099109900  90010                                                                                                     ',w969
PT9   0   1090  9   96   9     019906p909   9 P)P-2 V    9190909  099                       11991          099  090"-196)9999 9           P091990910991O9   9910  299
9990011999 '09009099999009001 1000094 09991 0911' 1999" 90999990090..                                             '9119  1661 -U9 '001.'969  0099960
0010 999600  10  0999094    10009090 pO9091  ld  0191909996            99-p   10 p999009-9196099-999     , 990019 -(0009  10  119 9.7. 69001
l.pPI.. !.Tll.dod1.  -,  Tlqd .....    -  - p-90-99600                               '061             '099P  - 19611 "09'066  '096  10119060 A19961
'00   0  096(`99   00900                   p 19101 90  99109119 9.-     -I-96    -Pl '0-61 P'99-9(6T  10;6 90091010606
'999099 909po09                                       '1-969P9P 16-961 P  '99Z069 9016o9o10    -10.
-9 09990009 lOlop   Sl 9906-  090000T0  '000.d      09991099199-19602                                                    611   1661 -096 '06610'961   10091990606d
-90969p09 119100 91190 0101901  10910 00 '190000p01 '99090919 9ITPod-           )999090   '(1 16 91 61 U0P1-  0- (900110-O6 19.-00101090T006091000
90900099910P90    (11UoO   99901)  09100  909090100I9U9  0961 Pl OL0669 '0961   16900'~
"lP! x_1M.l0 'p... -d9 69I9909                            901900019   0   09   0 Plodl - 9999sq 1000000-  '99  '000
91  1100090090A91A~  119  3090996- 01.  09-- 9069900990                                                              '9009 0961 A  'p09 'o69- '991~19   910
19990199  1906901609 oooo  10919999 90 09090900I' 0011009                                                                                              1i7_99ooi9
619p00090 Iloqo 00 p110600  - 919009 ~09909 '90000. 90191  09p00-d                                                      'p99091109..9190,9090 0019010606
'99-091  00990  9  90099  10 9010    o916690 900-10.P. .. p.oloo  09   90&99-p0019-000 0                                                            9109001019d
MP0....6 109 09100  A-do109 -0        P 0901090100  9990909100000                                                               '9999119901069  01T 991T 19910
009    1001009  609916l9  99100   901099910 dp19(9   1090199                          90l       -OP;001999 -    00 '96-   00 99    901009006. 090-P-10910
609691119                           99 11 099  909'119199991900   90190191199101
919909199009990  6190999  0 0 - 0919006 I190901
'690106909lOIlo  100  P0 9910'919  0               9906061999(1620  oool609919.00  111109P0  9009990
99991019  09 IUIOOB 9909909 6111109)  999  9909900  99091099090090999190 90 p91990  099  91619000 909  '1090o419  90100d
- 19100 909 '00910 '09001   -  2(0 1)900 1990196 p9 ,q,    .. 10009 .0090            999909 1006         d -   pU9-109199091 0   011009 911009  09 90900 .. 190..
.2--.d ---b ~.TTj PT AP          "IT.      '_10p90....0.0.1.0P11119090909199116096911109999- 919- 9-                                              '109
P0990009  90091-      0    991090999   '699099090 091 '19.9 9909                         "I'66 101 I099991-00900   991999.9'0099001990
19909109000 p096000 9900  P90 '0910 999 0 9001 29  Sosod  90109.100099..19011'90  9069T_961  99  90900990 019091
19099910P90"99'91  '1P001 - 0001 o90  1091919   900 "_99                                         99991 90 aoT;oTToo 01199   1)9100d01  00199Pu00106009009(01   '99990
'99906006-p      90919990010101 - p99000  999                          61199910 __  96199110  09190~T  10 099P9  99        09000  99199
jl-   p-  -q-               'T.,P..   90 -T1  --1                                                    "Ill9099060  9909090990  0 09U  -1 (900  90L6 0091161  1990   91
91919900000  01  -1010191P  00 099000 9990  - 999 99991000 o06 000909999                    1961 999 '0661 '0961 !1 6l0f 90 09 - (090090091) 0919-999 '0009900  900091
190Il9'00160   9109/0 P01  9-9O               990909160  09910                                                                              9199dlIP 09690  '669 '0961
900 90190900009  1999196T-19 109  90990 ('010 '9999999 '0900  '1101919                       100900,P1 '-01969q 900 009 90199     9009  '091091I 909  !2  0-10  91991
9909     q -10) 991099696 9 6q  MA9999961091690 90909  9099                                    9010004   oolooo  0060  .0     - 900099 ASA 901660199000 91D9
P-:9991 T  999009 '11099 '0011609190   '9990  100990
9990901  9969091  90999001  90099999999901g'09909069  00   -.~1 10  q                                                                        '990  9961 900 '94661 '0961
99999  6109901   ,91  99          9 109 0999600   '91101  00919019999900                        1(99999 99-6L66T) 99919 9090 9919-9  p099100090090000 9900 9q 9909100100-
999  9011600 d 90 0990  109- 00909011999  6q p9p909p (9910  p0 '09909
"TIl'091990  9099200                    '9961 1009904 099 01 10 9990199901190  0000  '99109  '061010
9o9999_   901990  09XPq         P090166-099  09900919 -d             9900 -919  9961 P- 9161_
'990;19(091 90900 99 T'-1000  9009990000 -     9096009999                                '0961 19199  PIOUT P10 910  9909 90901690090  19900910  - 001106
909 d1016 90q0990  6q p9p)T9  0091999606P  - 909090096 110 0090990606                                                                         ('0b'6   999001) 
'96001  0000199
91   10099lOo   090-010 9109 10190 9-9910969090  903990- 6900 919999000  9919  '11900  00 -109909909 . 100  00910 -                                O--   191900  999P1T-9
99 1090101 0109000 10  99 P_Us 9lP 40A... 119199999900                      .....p 1010100  99l o  019001991109 10099 .T  '109909 -0 10910  -0p 099  0-29
01 909090 '19991909000 '119 009 996  '9099 999 9099099909 0  01919000  11019  9   lOldlIO p9  9110169  p909p- 9  90P- 9009 900      19000 -p999196901
I KIUNYv



- 26 -
ANN'EX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population      :  119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Indicator                                     Amount                         Average Annual Increase (%)                     Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(Million US$ Current)                    (at Constant 1970 Prices)                             (at current Prices)
1982 t/                1965-70      1970-75      1975-80     1981-86              1970        1975        1982 b/
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Prodact /a                               289,000                   7.7        10.6          6.9         2.0              100.0       100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                           35,333                    1.9         5.7          4.7         4.5              10.2         10.9         14.3
Industry                                              78,391                   9.2         11.6         7.6           .08             35.8         37.2        31.8
Services                                             133,106                   8.0         10.7          6.8         4.1              54.0         51.9        53.9
Conaumption                                            215,940                    7.7         9.8          5.7         3.3               77.8        76.6         74.7
Gross Investment                                         60,755                   9.4        14.6          5.2         3.6               22.7        21.3         21.0
Exports of Goods and NFS                                 22,180                   8.2        11.2          7.3          6.5               6.7         7.5          7.7
Im-orts of Goods and NFS                                 24,613                  14.5        17.2          2.8         4.4                7.2        11.4          8.5
Grosa Do=estic Savingo                                58,317                    7.9        12.9          6.1         -                22.2         23.4        20.2
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (0)                Composition of Merchandise Trade (0)
(Million 0S$ Current)               (at Constant 1970 Prices)                          (at Current Prices)
1982                  1970-75          1975-80       1981-86                   1970          1975         1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise E.ports                                     20,164                 11.1              7.7              2.8                    100.0         100.0       100.0
Prinary c/                                            8,914                  8.3              1.1              0.8                     76.7          62.7         38.3
Manufactures d/                                      10,983                 28.2             18.2               5.6                    22.5          34.8         57.1
Merchandise Imports                                     19.397                14.8             -3.3               1.2                    100.0        100.0        101.1
Pood (cereals)                                        1,000                 -6.7             17.5              8.8                       4.5          3.0          4.8
Petroleum                                            10,126                  7.6              4.3            -11.0                     11.2          25.4         51.3
Machinery and Equip=ent e/                             3,272                15.2             -7.5               2.0                     36.2         32.2         18.2
Other                                                 4,999                 28.4             -1.9              4.3                     48.1          39.4         25.7
1975           1976            1977            1971            1979            1980               1981             1982
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                     305.1           444.3           632.7           892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6          5,696.8         11,108.8
Exchange Rate (Cr$/US$)                          8.1            10.6            14.1            18.1           26.9            52.7              93.1            180.0
EIport Price Index (1970 = 100)                176.0           192.0           226.0           228.0           066.0          290.0             252              220.0
Import Price Index (1970 = 100)               242.0           255.0           286.0           317.0           389.0           431.0            474               522.0
Terms of Trade Ioden (1970 = 100)               72.0            75.0            79.0            72.0            68.0            67.0             53               42.0
As % of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975              1979             1980 g/        1881 11  1982 E
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                        16.6             19.8              20.8              20.1           18.9      21.2
Current Expenditure                                                                   14.4              15.8              17.6              19.8           20.2      25.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              2.2              4.0               3.2               0.3           -1.4      -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                    2.6               3.8               3.7               4.1            3.5       3.4
Financing (Net)                                                                        0.4             -0.2                0.5               3.9            4.9       7.6
1965-70            1970-75            1975-79                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (%)                                                                   7.7                10.7                5.8                    2.1
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)                                                         4.6                7.7                3.0                   -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (. )                                                    7.2                7.3                6.5                    -
ICOR f/                                                                               2.9                 3.0                3.9                    3.2
Marginal Savings Rate f/                                                             20.5                25.7               22.7                   24.0
Import Elasticity  f/                                                                 2.2                 1.6                0.3                   -0.6
a/   At market prices; components are net domestic products empressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of dapreciatian and indirect
tameo less subsidies.
b/   Estimate.
c/   Includes:  coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   Includes:  ma-ufactured and semi-processed
e/   includes:  transportation materials
fl the 1981-86 projections are average arithmetic mean of the sin-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include government expeoditores effected through tho monetory budget and some minor govern-ent fonds, as well as transfers to the
federal enterprises.
August 3, 1983
Source: Conjuatura Economica FJV Bunco Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World Bask)



8ALANCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                                                      ANNEX I
(Oilllon US$ at current prices)                                                                                             1       f  3
Population:        119 =llTioh (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
ACTUAL                                                                              PROJECTXD T/
1975         1976          1977         1978          1979         19-87         1981              192           1983          1994         19 85        1i996
Nalsnoo of 20y51C,1t5
Net e-por-s of goods  aL  serd ices                                   -6,702       -6,018        -4,037       -6,086      -10,039       -12,564       -11,173           -14,736        -8,158       -7,628        -6,161       -5,227
ENpor-. of goods                                                    (8,670)    (10,128)    (12,120)    (12,659)    (15,244)           (20,132)    (23,293)             20,164        22,046       25,661        29,585       33,563
Importt  of Goods                                                (-12,210)   (-12,383)   (-12,023)   (-13,683)   (-18,084)   (-22,955)   (-22,080)                   (-19,397)     (16,001)   (-17,822)        (19,471)  (-2l,q31)
Net factor income                                                  -1,733        -2,189       -2,556        -3,257       -4,821        -6,621       -9,549            -12,303      -12,304       -13,242       -13,816    -14,135
(Of thich ner inter=st pyrmnet) /s                              (-1,498)      (-1,810)    (-2,103)    (-2,696)    (-4,185)          (-6,311)     (-9,179)            (8,538)      (9,112)       (9,997)      (10,384)   (10488)
Ne-  -on-f-ctor service-                                           -1,429        -1,574       -1,578        -1,dO5       -2,378        -3,127        -2,837            -3,200       -1,899        -2,225        -2,459      -2,724
Net -r-f-ero                                                               2             1            -            71           18           168           197               197          197           197           197         197
EOrrenst ccoun.t bhloc                                               -6,700        -6,017       -4,037        -6,015      -10,021       -12,396      -10,976            -14,539       -7,961        -7,431         5,964      -5,030
Dirc-t privats i-l,emt-ect /b                                            892           959          810        1,071         1,491         1,121.0      1,569             1,691         1,763         1,961        0,204        2,464
1M1T Ioom net                                                          4,830         5,542        5,650       10,018         5,297        3,475.0       9,483  i/         6,513         9,288         6 134        4,331          500
Disbursements                                                       (6,982)      (8,160)       (9,283)    (15,164)    (11,728)    (10,085)    (17,339)                (15,184)    (17,246)    (14,258)         (15,673)   (20,414)
' Amortlootion                                              -        (-2,152)    (-2,618)    (-3,633)    (-5,146)    (-6,431)    (-6,610.0)  (-7,856)                    (-8,671)        (-7,758)    (-8,124)   (-11,342)  (-14,914)
Nrt.iliOc loans abr=ad (net)                                            -190         -248          -267         -357          -610           416         -702            -1,085        -1,207       -1,395        -1,589       -1,820
Oth-e capital  -.e.i.                                                    218           956       -1,526         -4)5           628        4,063         1,313.0           4,011          -770         2,043        2,149          400
Change inreservqs (--iocreose) /c                                          950       -1,192          -630       -4,262         3,215        3,321          -687             4,000        -1,900       -1,500          -500         -600
Lnttrnational Reserves /d                                                4,041         6,544        7,256       11,895         9,699        6,913         7,600             3,600         4,450         5,354         5,911       6,681
Rserves -s sonth. of i-ports I=                                               4            6.3          7.2          10.3          6.4           3.6           4.1               2.2           3.3          3.6           3.6          3.7
A TEEAL
1975         1976          1977         1978          1979         1980          1981              1982 If
Lxtet-a Dtbt
Tttl M&LT debt o-acoerdiNg  od dishbrsed                             23,298       28,483        34,601       46,436        51,342        54,865       63,612            71,250
Pohlic and poblacly gsarooL-cd                                     13,786        17,349        21,398       30,284       33.478        38,260        43,820            48,250
Officoi  soorce                                                   3,959         4,431        4,717         5,401        5,889         6,416         7,244             8,101
IERD                                                           (1,093)      (1,217)       (1,413)      (1,602)       (1,827)       (2,069)      (2,319)            (2,654)
oth-r                                                          (2,866)       (3.214)      (3,3014)      (3,799)      (4,062)       (4.347)      (4,925)            (5,447)
Privatemsources                                                   9,747        12,918       16.878        23,883       29,589         31,844        36,576           23,000
Privatenon-guaranst-d                                                9,592       11.133        13,005       16,152        15,864       16,605        19.792            13,300
UEdi.sbhred debt (phblit -ony)                                         3,879        6,620         8.411       10,209        12,448       14,041        14,995
Gross Dishbreeernts
Total groom .. o..rsa. em.   of M&LT 200n0                             6,981        8,160         9,282       15,164        11,728        10,085       15,059            15,184
Pubhic sad publicly guaranteed                                       3,788        4,921         5,422       10,116         9,152        6,893         8,997
OfficNil  -pcrit erdits                                              428          405           169          490           448          467            28               732
18RD                                                               250           173           298          275          302           343           387               562
Other mloilateral                                                   119          113            92          136           206          192           189               373
Private soorce:                                                  2,991         4,233        4,862         9,216        8,197         7,892         8,393            13,517 /k
Priva-e no-guare.teed                                              3,194         3,239         3,861        5,048        2,576         3,192         6,061
Debt Service
Total dabt sereice peymootc                                           4,195        4,322         5,642        8,252        11,147       13,168        14,869            17,209
Interest (oet)                                                    (1,677)       (1,423)      (1,651)       (2,457)      (3,555)       (5,412)       (7,778)           (8,538)
Pay=ents as X of gUporis osd NFS                                         43.0          38.7         42.3          58.8         66.8          60.0          58.1              77.6
Psya-ts as X of GNP                                                       2.9           2.6          3.0           3.7          4.3           4.8           5.4               6.0
A....ge literest rote eo  nea p-uhic debt (X) I8                             8.7          7.6           8.3          9.9          11.2         12.3          15.2              13.6
Officialo. trcma                                                          7.7           7.9          8.0           7.5          8.3           9.1           9.8               -
Average =arNty of net goarateed Iems                                        9. 0         13                                       1.5          9.8           9.7               8.0
Official sources                                                         18.4          16.3         16.1          14.5         24.0          12.9          13.0
Pri-em ioortes                                                            7.0           9.3          8.7           9.3         11.2           8.7           8.9               -
IRD Exposute
IRDN DOD/Toiml                                                            4.7           4.3          4.1           3.4          3.6           3.8.          3.6               3.8
I8RD disburse=enrs/tortl gress dishbrseqeotc (X)                          3.5           2.1          3.2           1.9          2.6           3.4           2,6               3.2
tBRD doti service/total debt  ervitc  (X)                                 2.5           3.2          3.7           2.7          2.2           2.1          2.2                2.6
A. X of tcoca MALT debt onlelmodlog
at end of Dece=be-  1981
D0bt StNrocure
llatrity struotue of M&LT debt ettantoding
bootcita  d       il whih    5 yera.                                                               56
Mauitiea doe qirhio I  yTears                                                                      98
/S 8ince 1983 cm, ir ,-fmrm only ro iMrermes on N&LT Iomns.
/b Ricluding r--inested profits.
Ec Excluding dollar valuation odjacat-ots amnd =onetiition of do=stitc gold.
/d Iccldieg gold mod dollar valoation odj--t,mois.
/e Goods ooly.
/f Esti=xts.
/gi Public debt only.
/i Inclodes IMF med short-ter- borrocieg.
/ Nro-il staed-rd model (World Bank).
I- Lncldms privatc  g-sri-lte-d and  .on-guarantced debt.
Source:  mBaco Centr-l do B-sil  Externsl Ileb  Data  (iPD): 78-81 (World bank)
LMF .oorce                                                                              Augost 3, 1983



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Fifty-four loans fully disbursed                                      1,950.1
923     1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power                  125.0         1.2
Itumbiara
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do            Power                   81.0        12.4
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1067     1974  Brazil                            Education               21.2         1.1
1075     1975  Brazil                            Roads                  110.0         9.4
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                  95.0         5.5
1152     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                  60.0        15.3
1153     1975  Brazil                            Agriculture             23.0         0.3
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways                75.0         6.5
1195     1976  Brazil                            Rural Development        12.0        5.4
1207     1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            55.0        18.9
1249     1976  Brazil                            Agriculture             40.0         0.3
1300     1976  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   50.0         0.2
1302     1976  Brazil                            Nutrition                19.0        0.2
1317     1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry           83.0        42.5
1343     1977  ELETROSUL                         Power                   82.0        11.8
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development       42.0         6.2
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer              52.0         1.7
1411     1977  Fertilizantes Vale do Rio         Fertilizer              55.0         1.6
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                            Education                32.0       19.8
1488     1977  Brazil                            Rural Development        17.0       10.8
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage                110.0       62.3
1537     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development       24.0        18.3
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   130.0       40.5
1557     1978  Brazil                            Roads                   114.0       79.1
1562     1978  COPESU7L                          Petrochemicals          85.0         4.9
1563     1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport         88.0        17.1
1568     1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension        100.0       60.6
1589     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development        37.0       25.1
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sites and Services      93.0        42.8
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water and Sewerage    100.0         58.7
1660     1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum                 78.8        0.1
1714     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development        26.0       21.5
1720     1979  Brazil                            Urban Development       70.0        48.3
1721     1979  COPEL                             Power                   109.0       57.9
1728     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development       40.0        31.5
1729     1979  Brazil                            Irrigation              28.0        13.7
1730     1979  Brazil                            Roads                   110.0       77.9



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                     Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                        Pollution Control       58.0        57.4
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            130.0        82.8
1824     1980  CEEE                              Power                   114.0       105.8
1839     1980  Brazil                            Urban Transport         159.0       153.0
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            139.0       84.9
1867     1980  Brazil                            Education                32.0        29.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development        63.0       58.6
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                         Power                   125.0       120.3
1924     1981  Brazil                            Rural Development        56.0        45.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                        Power                    54.0       50.0
1965     1981  EBTU                              Urban Transport          90.0        82.4
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            180.0       142.4
1989     1981  Brazil                            Alcohol Development   250.0         244.8
2015     1981  Brazil                            Agriculture              29.0        24.1
2016     1981  Brazil                            Agriculture              60.0        51.8
2060     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              67.0        54.6
2061     1982  Brazil                            Health                   13.0        10.1
2062     1982  Brazil                            Highways                240.0       198.8
2116     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4        23.9
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   182.7       180.0
2163     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4        23.7
2170     1982  Brazil                            Urban Development       123.9       114.1
2177 /1  1982  Brazil                            Rural Development        42.7        42.7
2193     1982  Brazil                            Urban Development         8.9         8.2
2196.    1982  CVRD                               Iron Ore               304.5       280.3
2224 /1  1982  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            154.0       154.0
2225     1982  BNDES                             Development Banking   220.0         216.8
2249 /1  1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            302.3       302.3
Total                                                  7,672.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                   1,120.0
Total now outstanding                                  6,552.9
Amount sold                               45.8
Of which has been repaid                45.8             0.0
Total now held by Bank                                 6,552.9
Total undisbursed                                                  3,773.8
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 1 7
B. SIA3aEM  OF It INVES{NTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                                                                                            Anount in US$ million
Year                                       O b l i g o r                                   Type of Business                    Loais     Equity    Total
1957                  Simns do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                             Electrical Equiprment                    2.00        -        2.00
1958                  Oliskraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                                 Pulp and Paper                           1.20        -        1.20
1958                  D. L. R. Plastics do Brasil, S. A.                               Automotive Parts                         0.45        -        0.45
1958                   illys-erlaird do Brasil, S. A. - Induistria e Cnarcio            Motor Vehicles                           2.45        -        2.45
1959                  (ompanhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                     Gement                                   1.20        -        1.20
1959                  Champion Celulose, S. A.                                          Pulp                                     4.00        -        4.00
1966/1968/1972        Acos Villares, S. A.                                              Steel                                    8.00       1.93      9.93
1966/1969             papel e Celulose Catarinerse, S. A.                               Pulp ard Paper                           3.78       3.41      7.19
1967/1972             Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Gamercio de Fertilizantes        Fertilizers                              8.22       3.03     11.25
1969                  Petroqunica. Uniao, S. A.                                         Petrodienicals                           5.50       2.88      8.38
1970                  Poliolefinas, S. A. Lidustria e Comercio                          Petroclmnicals                           5.50       2.88      8.38
1971                  Oxiterw, S. a. Industria e Cmercio                                Petrochmicals                            4.60       1.44      6.04
1971                  Rio Grande - Opanhia de Celulose do Sul                           Pulp                                     4.90        -        4.90
1972/1975/1981        Canparila de Cisnto Nactonal de Minas                               (nt                                  169.14       6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981   iChpanhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                      Steel                                   76.97      11.22    88.19
1973                  Capital Market Development Pad - FUtAP                            Capital Market Developmrt                5.00        -        5.00
1973/1978/1983        Brpresa de DEsenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais - (ODDEN, S. A.   Nickel Minirg and Refinirg              85.00       8.74     93.74
1974                  Industrias Villares, S. A.                                        Elevators ard Industrial Eqitprent       6.00        -        6.00
1974                  Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                  Textiles                                31.00        -       31.00
1975/1979             Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                  Carbon Black                             6.18       1.19      7.37
1975                  Oxriteno Nordeste, S. A.                                          Petrochessicals                         10.00        -       10.00
1976                  Sartista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                    Textiles                                 6.45       1.00      7.45
1976/1980             Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nbrdeste                    Textiles                                16.20        -       16.20
1977                 FMB S. A. Productos Yetalurgics                                    iron ard Alumirem Castings             20.00        -       20.00
1977                  Mineracao Rio do lbrte S. A.                                      Minirg                                   15.00       -       15.00
1978                  Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                          Iron ard Steel                           7.00       3.00     10.00
1979                  Volvo do Brasil itores e Veiculos, S. A.                          Motor Vehicles                          60.00       5.27     65.27
1980                  hering do Nbrdeste S. A. - Malhas                                 Ready-msde Garments                      2.00        -        2.00
1980                  Derde do Pare S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Irdustria
e Comercio de Olaginceas                                       Palm-Oil                                 3.50       1.00      4.50
1980                  Villares Irdustrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                        Iron ard Steel                           5.00        -        5.00
1980                  PPd - Qaspartia industrial de Polipropileno                       Camicals ard Petrodmicals               15.00       2.00     17.00
1980                  Destilaria COanorte S. A.                                         Chemicals and Petrocheicals               -         0.25      0.25
1980                  Sotave Amazonia Qnm-ica e Mineral S/A                             Fertilizers                             16.00       4.00    20.00
1980                  Polisul Petroquimica                                              Chemicals and Petrochemicals            43.00.      5.00     48.00
1981                  Brasilpar                                                         Money and Capital Markets                 -         1.50      1.50
1981                  Ccrpanhia Brrsileirs de Agropecuaria - 0BRAPE                     Food and Food Processirg                 5.50       3.00      8.50
1981                  Triunfo                                                          C(micals aid Petrodiemicals              46.00       4.00     50.00
1982                  Cimento CALE                                                      Cemenrt and Construction Materials      40.00       5.00    45.00
1982                  Iochpe Agro Industrial S.A.                                        %bney Capital Market                    30.00      0.45     30.45
1983                  Cia Riograndernse de Participagoes (CRP)                          Mney Capital Market                       -         0.36      0.36
1983                  Atlas Frigorifico                                                 Focd ard Ford Processing                 13.00      -        13.00
1983                  Caspanhia Lende do Amapa (ODLEPA)                                 Palm Oil                                  6.10      -         6.10
1983                  PISA - Papel de Imprersa S.A.                                     Pulp & Paper Products                   47.50       3.50     51.00
Total Gross Cainstoents                                                                        838.34      82.75    921.09
-is  Carellations, TeTminations, lepayments and Sales                                           589.45      13.17    602.62
Total OCmiotmnts Now held by IFC                                                               248.89      69.58    318.47
Total Lniisbursed                                                                               190.88      15.24    206.12
April 15, 1983



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
C. Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1983 1/
As of March 31, 1983, there were 62 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is nearing completion. Procurement
has been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and, to an increase
in the cost of civil works. The Closing Date will not be
postponed. However, it is expected that the loan will be fully
disbursed by mid-1983.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.  Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by the
Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been
constructed.  The construction of the underground power station and
of the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of
the transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly
because of delays during the early stages. Forty-nine of the 51
facilities to be constructed are now operating. Progress in other
components is satisfactory. The Project Completion Mission is
scheduled for May 1983. The Bank will accept disbursement requests
for the loan until June 30, 1983, Overall costs are within
reviewed estimates. A local project completion report will be
issued before the end of FY83.
1/   These notes are designed t.o inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984. The
project is approaching completion. All project components, except
DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) are substantially
completed. Construction of the weighing stations has been hindered
by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left the stations
program without the necessary funds. The program was reformulated
and is expected to be completed in late 1983. The Closing Date was
postponed by one year to June 30, 1984.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of price
increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash generation
due to weak steel markets; and difficult international credit
markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-term funds
it needs. The Government has been informed of the Bank's concern
over the companies' present situation and has been requested to
develop and implement a satisfactory plan of action which would:
(a) set investment priorities for the steel sector as a whole
according to economic criteria; (b) increase real steel prices in
1983 and institute an acceptable steel pricing policy; and (c)
establish a realistic budget for CSN which would ensure timely
completion of the Stage III projects and allow for necessary
improvement in the companies' financial situation. It is expected
that Government and steel companies representatives will present
their program. of action along the lines defined above, during May
1983.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the COSIPA
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of price
increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash generation
due to weak steel markets; and difficult international credit
markets which have prevented COSIPA from raising the long-term



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
funds it needs. The Government has been informed of the Bank's
concern over the companies' present situation and has been
requested to develop and implement a satisfactory plan of action
which would: (a) set investment priorities for the steel sector as
a whole according to economic criteria; (b) increase real steel
prices in 1983 and institute an acceptable steel pricing policy;
and (c) establish a realistic budget for COSIPA which would ensure
timely completion of the Stage III projects and allow for necessary
improvement in the companies' financial situation. It is expected
that Government and steel companies representatives will present
their program of action along the lines defined above, during May
1983.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to drop
the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and reallo-
cated funds to the construction of civil engineering works unfore-
seen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date was
postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on production
activities continue to improve substantially. The rate of dis-
bursements has risen sharply and about 99% of the loan is now
disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of
November 12, 1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983. The implementation of the project, as rede-
fined to take into account FEPASA's weak financial position in
1976-78, is improving. Completion is estimated for mid-1983.
FEPASA's operations continue to improve significantly. The railway
has reduced its operating costs in the past year mainly due to
reduction in staff and improvement to train operations. The loan
should be fully disbursed by September 1983 and a project comple-
tion report should be completed by early 1984.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million
loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing
Date: September 30, 1984. Phase I of this project ended satisfac-
torily, although one year behind the original schedule. The design
of Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisher-
ies. Serious droughts slowed down the implementation of Phase II,



- 34 -
A-NTNEX II
sage 7 of 17
but progress the last year has been encouraging0 The Loan Closing
Date was recently extended to September 30, 1984.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for 16
subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays and
constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDES/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level.
Undertaken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was
completed in early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to
improvement or construction of about 5,000 km of roads and 62
bridges, and in the provision of about US$21 million from the
second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing of 10 subprojects
under the first project.  Physical implementation of the project
progressed satisfactorily in 1982 and reached about 70% by year
end.  Disbursements under the first loan have reached 66% as of
March 31, 1983.  However, shortage of counterpart funding has
recently reduced the speed of execution of this loan.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closig Date: June 30,
1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of incremental
staff, imports of project related equipment and controls on the
training programs (abroad) for research technicians, the project
progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of disbursements
rose sharply. The necessary levels of counterpart funding and
project implementation were only minimally sustained during 1982;
even so the project should be completed by about April 1983c The
Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1983,
1300      Nortlheast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1982. Except for a small portion (about 8%) of COELBA's subproject
all works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low-income households have been widely
exceeded.  Substantial improvements in the management of the
project companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of
financial control and planning of COELBA and CELPE. The Closing
Date will not be postponed.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is concluding satisfactorily. All
project field activities have been completed and only some of the
evaluation studies remain to be completed. The undisbursed balance
of this loan should be fully disbursed by the current Loan Closing
Date, June 30, 1983.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended. Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with
the Government. The project has been progressing well in very
difficult economic conditions. The Loan is expected to be fully
committed shortly. A third project was appraised and negotiations
were completed in March 1983.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project was completed in early 1983. The
current project cost of US$169.0 million is about 20% lower than
the original estimate of US$212.5 million. The Closing Date will
not be postponed. However, the Bank will continue to honor
withdrawal applications until June 1983.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984. This project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly.  A second, final
postponement of the Closing Date by 12 months to permit completion
of project activities including a program for further strengthening
of institutions responsible for marketing, farm management
extension, and community development, was approved.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29,
1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31,
1983. The plant has been completed and was formally inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date will not be postponed,
however, the Bank will continue to honor withdrawal applications
within a period not to exceed six months from the Closing Date.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August
1980. During this period it achieved an average capacity
utilization of 81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP.
Several plant modifications have been carried out to improve
performance of MAP and TSP plants. Market constraints following



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
revised credit policies and fertilizer price increases in early
1981 have affected production of finished products by about 20%.
The Closing Date will not be postponed, however, the Bank will
continue to honor withdrawal applications within a period not to
exceed six months from the current Closing Date.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1985. Since March 1982 when the Loan Agreement was amended and a
new implementation schedule formulated, project implementation has
accelerated with an additional disbursement of US$2.3 million.
However, this performance still falls short of the expectation due
to the procurement problems of SENAI and SENAC, the slow start-up
by SENAR and new budgetary problems faced by all agencies.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reaching
target farmers, land purchases and settlements of a small group of
farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered from
shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infrastructure
are proceeding well, although there are some difficulties in
administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:
US$110.0 million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date:
August 7, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical
execution of the project is experiencing difficulties because of
inadequate funding from the State and because of political prob-
lems, The Bank has requested BNH to present a plan to complete
works by the end of 1985. BNH and SABESP are meetig with the
newly-elected Government to resolve the political and funding
problems and will present solutions to the Bank in June 1983.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. Financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the first two years, but the situa-
tion improved markedly with a reorganization of project administra-
tion and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will
require reorientation of management and agricultural development
activities. The State has undertaken a complete evaluation study,
including a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the project
and to extend the Closing Date. The State's evaluation study and
proposal are currently under review by the Bank.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to and insufficient counterpart funds. In July 1981,
ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counterpart funds to be
provided, therefore the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
The Closing Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1984,
because of a slower rate of growth than projected in the SAR.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the Federal Government.  Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in the
State of Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The project was reformulated in December 1982 to reflect current
priorities. The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.
Completion of the reformulated project is expected by end of 1984.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6,
1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983. Project was commissioned on November 22, 1982. Project
total cost is estimated at US$760 million, about 9% below the SAR
estimate of US$836 million. Disbursement of Bank loan totalled
US$70.0 million up to December 31, 1982.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally
envisaged at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the
revised project completion date, June 30, 1983. At the same time,
some new items have been included to achieve the project's objec-
tive, which is improvement of the delivery of urban transport
serices in several cities.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project
implementation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective,
and project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981-82.
Partial exemption to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions
(12/28/81) are being arranged by EMBRATER, on a state-by-state
basis to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Hiring restrictions are only part of the problem in some states
however, mostly in the North and Northeast, where lack of
counterpart funding to pay additional staff salaries is now the key
issue. Administrative changes, due to election results of November
15, 1982 could well cause some delay in project execution during
early 1983 until the new state administrations become familiar with
project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date:  December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983. The pace of project execution is now
satisfactory, and delays in funding have been reduced. Extension
and land titling services have been improved, but lack of land
purchase credit is hampering the balanced progress of the project.
The quality of feeder road construction has been uneven, but
supervision of construction is being strengthened, The health
component is proceeding smoothly; and the execution of the
education and water supply components are approaching appraisal
targets. A request for extension of the Closing Date is under
review.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date:  July 9, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million loan
of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project completion is expected by year-end 1984,
two years later than the appraised estimate. Over 90% of the works
have been committed project implementation problems, particularly
the institutional weaknesses of the state companies, are being
substantially addressed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
1660      VALESUL Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the Loan which will not be utilized. Construction is complete.
Start-up is proceeding satisfactorily and is almost complete.
Additional commercial bank financing of US$50 million was obtained
in September 1982 to cover start-up losses. Project completion
report is under preparation.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components. Extension services exceeded yearly targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985. After a slow start, the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.  Planned investments in the first four cities
included in the project have practically been completed, and it is
now expected that all investments will be completed within the
revised schedule. (The Loan Closing Date was postponed from
December 31, 1983 to December 31, 1985). Two of the additional
three cities incorporated into the project last August were already
appraised during October, and the last city is expected to be
appraised during the second quarter of 1983.  About 60% of the Loan
is expected to be disbursed by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation was initially about six
months behind schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement
pending loan effectiveness. Since then project implementation has
proceeded more slowly than originally planned owing to a slowdown
in market growth. It has been agreed to extend the Closing Date to
June 30, 1985.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds.  Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to the
dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation and
drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been installed
and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. It consists
of 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling improvement or
construction of about 4,700 km of roads and 239 bridges. Physical
implementation is on schedule. Disbursements reached US$32.1
million by the end of March 1983, which is in line with appraisal
estimate.  However, since this time shortage of counterpart funds
has reduced the speed of execution of this loan.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project has experienced considerable
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific
engineering solutions to the, pollution problems of individual
industrial concerns, and less demand for financing than envisioned
at appraisal. The final date for presenting subprojects, March 31,
1983, must be extended as well as the Closing Date later on.
Cancellation of a substantial portion of the Loan is anticipated by
the end of this year.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project is
now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by the
end of 1984. Over 90% of works have been committed.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.  After some initial delays, project
implementation proceeded satisfactorily, though the company is
facing financial difficulties. In addition the slowdown in market
growth and other charges in economic conditions have prompted
proposals for project revision that are currently under review and
will probably entail an extension of the Closing Date.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project:  US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Some problems concerning procurement have delayed
the implementation of the project by about one year. Tenders have
been reviewed for about 75% of project components. The balance
will be fully tendered during 1983.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$139.0
million loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Over 80% of the works are already committed, and
physical execution is progressing on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of
July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date:
September 1, 1985. Project implementation is delayed by about
12 months due to delays in effectiveness and in transferring
resources to project states during calendar years 1980 to 1982.
The delay is expected to be made up for during the remaining period
of project implementation on the basis of a revised implementation
schedule, currently under discussion.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Previous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have
slowed project implementation to a degree that some reformulation
of project targets is being considered. Subject to these
constraints, the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. Project execution is behind schedule.
Procurement is now in a very advanced stage.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding slower than
anticipated, mainly due to funding delays and institutional
problems. Remedial actions are being taken. Physical and social
infrastructure are proceeding well, although these are still
difficulties in administering the health component and delays in
carrying out the rural water supply program.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5,
1981; Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985. Implementation of this project is about two years behind
schedule. Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project
back to its original schedule as a result of recent (February 1983)
discussions held in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Institutional weaknesses and political
problems have resulted in a low commitment and disbursement pace
(30% of works have been committed). A mid-term evaluation of this
project was undertaken in April 1983.  Measures to improve its
implementation were identified and a proposal will be firmed up by
mid-June 1983.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progressing
satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of
August 10, 1981; Effective Date:  February 5, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. Although project start-up was delayed because
of the late receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, with over 600 beneficiaries of land redistribution
and several hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few
months. Other components have also progressed well, although
limited execution capacity has slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation and water supply.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.  Minor start-up delays occurred during 1982 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special
arrangements by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a
case-by-case basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN
that, commencing with CY83, there would be full allocation of
essential counterpart funding for the project.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Agriculture Project: US$67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure has proceeded
satisfactorily during the first full year of project
implementation. There have been some delays in transfer of funds
to local implementing agencies.  The environmental component has
been picking up speed but implementation of the Amerindian
protection program has slowed from its original pace.
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project: US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is proceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes Highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
into which the highway is divided.  Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works is
good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes. The situation should improve in 1983 with the
start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project: US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.
2138      ELETROBRAS I Power Distribution Project:  US$182.7 million loan of
May 12, 1982; Effective Date: October 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987. Project implementation has commenced, and
procurement under ICB is proceeding satisfactorily.
2163      Amazonas Agricultural Development Project:  US$26.4 million loan of
June 25, 1982; Effective Date: November 29, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Although project implementation has suffered
from counterpart funding delays, various changes in top executives
and a freeze on hiring of new staff, project starting activities
are progressing well.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
2170      Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project:  US$123.9 million
loan of June 28, 1982; Effective Date: November 24, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988. Execution of the project is about six
months behind schedule primarily because of delays occasioned by
the recent elections and by the general uncertainty of Brazil's
financial situation. During this time, the major executing agency
(FIDEM) and SUDENE responsible for overall supervision, have
developed management systems, trained staff; in general prepared
for the elected officials to take office in March 1983. While the
project is large and complex, the agencies involved are
experienced. The mission expects overall project execution
performance to be consistent with Bank norms.
2193      Project for the Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs
for Salvador and Fortaleza: US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1982; Effective Date: December 10, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. Implementation of this project is, although at its initial
stages, proceeding well.
2196      Carajas Iron Ore Project:  US$304.5 million loan of August 13,
1982; Effective Date: November 12, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. The project implementation schedule has been
revised and start-up of the project is now expected in mid-1986.
The postponement by one year was proposed by CVRD to maintain its
sound financial position in the face of reduced sales revenue.
Despite the postponement, capital costs are projected at 8% below
appraisal estimates, due to the favorable bids received.
Implementation of the schedule revision has been well planned and
orderly. To date, physical construction has progressed well and on
schedule.
2225      Second Development Banking Project:  US$220.0 million loan of
December 21, 1982; Effective Date: March 23, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The project is proceeding on schedule.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I -    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:         5 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:         SEDM
(c) First presentation to the Bank:    July 1981
(d) First mission to review project:   May 1982
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:    October 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations:           March 1983
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:         October 1983.
Section II -   Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.              (a)  The State of Parana would ensure that all sub-projects
meet the criteria for the allocation of resources
specified in the Manual on Lending Policies and
Procedures (para. 56).;
(b) The borrowing municipalities would be required to
maintain adequately the facilities in which proceeds of
the proposed loan have been invested (para. 57);
(c) In order to borrow a municipality would have to present
to the State a plan of action, satisfactory to the
Bank, for improving the collection of fiscal revenues,
including betterment charges, user and other service
charges, and the urban real estate tax; and would put
such plan into effect on a timetable acceptable to the
Bank (para. 63); and
(d) As a basis for cost recovery through the IPTU tax, the
State of Parana would provide for periodic reassessment
of the value of urban real estate in municipalities
which had adopted the CIATA program (para. 64).



I



_________________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                     TRO 16176~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 16
C:t                                                40k 447<                          -4000  4000 00~ iC                                                                                           PARANA  MARKET TOWNS
C-)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1980          SETTLEMENT   PATTERN 0  '   ~ 4'4  '0  ~   2
54          So                                10(44                                                    00..-                                                                                                        5 4  M  th0 10
'ALILI    -A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4049110'AR                                                                   0205 5.4
0400               44405               044400044              Sooo,o        440'    0 404II                                               0o40           -  ~.,,~
. . ....  - I_l  ','A.                                                                A2~~~~L.'            I       R,'E0-  5.I   N1o Lsso 20
0004  CO o[ % ,  'II             -500I               4                    .[(            ,-       4415
0004  0400  00004000~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
440405        404(00           1               550   40       .4(04040   10004                440,00
000 40044  44440                                    0       044441504    0    45 0   oorlooo,o~         ~      ~     ~     ~ ~        ~RBN PPUATIN   F CNTR TWN
44450500  0                                                                                                        5,                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   0   t   O0
-1   W                                                                                                                                                                                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   ~ O4  0500'4-044444 450                    00   0bO
I'  beso  0o0004404(  00     4      44500                                              opoos                         I                                                      10,005,o 20,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000   t.2000
00,40   40                                                                                        400444400L.414   0
0444  444000050  0441 00' 00 04540  11  4044 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         3404140      tA            ,          0   -                       o    20000       000,0000 S50cS0it to 10,005,UI t.5,00
~~4~~~o  o4~~~~~~j454(  xi                                                   000040          . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0O\ ~~~~Los- tha- 2,000
0044    0000  /01,   10     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.                                           R.
0   400000  00                                00440      0                                             40                        (10          4- T0                                                          jSo..oodJry Roods
~~~~:j                                                                                                                         M.-  P.1~\lo   0 0040  4 r  ~1104405  Roordoo
-       0144A4                          0                                  04440                                                   0                                     1 
S  Ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
r 
440,404  0  045014  404  0044400   0                                    4                    04440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
0 0 4  0 0 4 0 4 0 5 5  0  o  104   0                                                                                    oOOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0.o.oO...Of0rO40N.......s.lj,oOOOot.~~~~~~~~l T N  I~    V
cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                      oS~
1,                              70                                          41444000~~~~~~~~1A~A&A
7< d/
TTl~~~~~~,~~~  F? ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       44_                                                                                                              0000,                                   0       /00lo
a.                                                                                                                                                             401    00                        00 4~~~~~~~~
000 C04  w44~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1~                           4FL                                                              0 494T 
floOl0Soo  ..A  o/d       0                                                                                                                                I            S   ~~1~00   /  >00               0                         oooOO4O4IOiA -5Oo4
I   ~~~~4  4'                   o04400 0050 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0          40010   000~~~~~~~A
0 1  LO.             o4T5040o            44TFP500005-a             i
bt50BVat-  4050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     0                                             00   04    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tIi   0   ((A~ ~~~~~~                                                                      , J    
,7>Y~~~~~ \t-L    oo405444  0  00  6                                      0~~~~~S     N     T                                 C A          Ao    R   I~  N A
04                                                                00                                                                                                                      14(504414400   4010000  40~~~~~~I  51



