Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4403a-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (CR$)
(Calendar Year 1982)      (March 1, 1983)
US$1  =  CR$179.80         CR$381.44
CR$1  =  US$0.00556        US$O.00262
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANESTADO     Parana State Bank
BNH           National Housing Bank
CIATA         Agreements on Incentives for the Technical-Administrative
Improvement of Municipalities
CNDU          National Urban Development Council
CNPU          National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban Policy
COHAB         Low-Cost Housing Company
COHAPAR       Parana Low-Cost Housing Company
COPEL         Parana State Electricity Company
CURA          Urban Improvement Program (BNH loans to Municipalities)
DER-PR        Parana State Ilighway Department
DNR           National Highway Department
EBTU          Brazilian Urban Transport Company
EMOPAR        Parana State Public Works Company
FAMEPAR       Parana Municipal Assistance Foundation
FIBGE         Foundation of the Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics
FNDU          National Urban Development Fund
ICM           Value Added Sales Tax
IPI           Manufacturer's Sales Tax
ITBI          Property Transfer Tax
IPTU          Urban Property Tax
IR            Income Tax
ISS           Tax on Services
METRONOR      Metropolitan Conurbation of Northern Parana
PLANASA       National Sanitation Plan
PLANHAB       National Low-Cost Housing Plan
PROFILURB     Sites and Services Financing Program
PROPAV        Low-Cost Road Paving Program
PRORURAL      Integrated Project of Support to the Small Farmer
RMC           Curitiba Metropolitan Region
SANEPAR       Parana Sanitation Company
SDU           Federal Undersecretariat of Urban Development
SEDM          State Secretariat of Municipal Development (1981-1983)
SEPL          Parana Planning Secretariat
SEPLAN        Federal Planning Secretariat
SFH           Housing Finance System
TC            State Accounts Tribunal
TELEPAR       Parana Telecommunications Company
UPC           Standardized Capital Unit of Account



i.K Si7AaL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Page
Table of Contents
I.     THE PROJECT CONTEXT .....................                          1
1.01 Economic Development and Diversification; 1.10 State and
Municipal Finance; 1.13 Parana's Emerging Spatial Structure.
II.  SECTOR AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK ..................                6
2.01  Brazil's Urban Development trends;   2.02 Federal Urban
Policies and Institutions; 2.03 Urban Sector Lending in Brazil;
2.04 Municipal Governments; 2.05 State Approach to Municipal
Improvement 2.07 Operational Structure; 2.11 Parana's State Bank;
2.12 Related Programs; 2.14 Borrowing Experience of Parana State.
III. THE PROJECT .11
3.01   Project Origin;  3.02 Main Features of the Project;
3.05   Objectives of Bank Participation; 3.06 Project Costs;
3.08   Project Components;  3.13 Financing Plan.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .16
4.01 Implementation Arrangements; 4.02 Past Criteria of Resource
Allocation; 4.04 Proposed Criteria of Resource Allocation;
4.10 Design and Supervision of Works; 4.13 Procurement;
4.14 Disbursement; 4.16 Special Account; 4.17 Accounting
and Auditing; 4.18 Disbursement Schedule; 4.20 Monitoring
and Evaluation; 4.22 Envir3nmental Impact.
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .22
5.01 Impact on State Finance; 5.05 Financial Situation of
Parana's Municipalities; 5.07 Municipal Borrowing Capacity;
5.10 Municipal Cost Recovery.
VI.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION .26
6.01 General Approach; 6.05 Sample Rates of Return;
6.10 Sensitivity Analysis.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited
Parana in November 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs. G.C. Guarda
(mission leader); S. Alber-Glanstaetten (financial analysis), P. Midgley
(monitoring and evaluation); A. Zuniga (design, implementation and
procurement); Mrs. M. Plessis-Fraissard (economic and spatial analysis);
and Mr. J. Ladd (systems management consultant). Mr. Koichi Mera (Regional
Planning Advisor, URB) contributed to the project's approach.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



-ii-
Table of Contents
VII.   PROJECT RISKS AND PROPOSED REMEDIES ......       ..................  29
7.01 Implementation and Management; 7.02 Resource Allocation and
Subprojects' Selection; 7.03 Introduction of Subloans;
7.04 Bad Debt; 7.05 Cost Overruns.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS. .......      .....................  30
8.01 Agreements Reached During Loan Negotiations; 8.16 Agreements
Concerning the Obligations of the Municipalities; 8.17 Conditions
of Effectiveness; 8.20 Recommendation.
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Accompanying Tables
Table 1:  Location and Distribution of Project Personnel
Table 2:  Type and Unit Costs of Completed Subprojects 1981-82
Table 3:  Project Costs by Component
Table 4:  Detailed Project Costs and Contingencies Calculations
Table 5:  Investment Schedule by Major Component
Table 6:  Indicative Procurement Distribution
Table 7:  Summary of Expenditures by Procurement Procedure and Proposed
Loan Disbursement.
Table 8:  Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 9:  Implementation Monitoring Schedule
Table 10: Physical Progress Indicators
Table 11: Parana State Budgets 1979-1983
Table 12: Consolidated State Budgets by Sector and Type of
Expenditures
Table 13: Population and Income Projections
Table 14: Proposed Allocation of the State Funds
Table 15: Illustrative Distribution of Loan Funds
Table 16: Percentual Budget Structure of 52 Municipalities
Table 17: 1980 Budgets of 32 Sample Towns
Table 18: 1980 Per Capita and Per Town Weight of Key Budget Items
Table 19: 1977-1981 Budged Evolution of 32 Sample of 50 Towns
Table 20: Analysis of Debt Capacity of a Sample of 50 Towns
ANNEX 2. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
Map IBRD 16876: Parana 1980 Settlement Pattern



BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTRODUCTION
In Brazil, the ability of a municipality to meet its capital
improvement requirements is largely determined by the share of fiscal
contributions returned to it by the State and the Federal government
through targeted participation funds and credit schemes. In the context of
rapid urbanization, these flows of resources are often insufficient to
cover the investment needs of expanding communities. The proposed urban
infrastructure project is geared to the existing administrative and fiscal
framework and would address the needs of 287 municipalities in Parana.
However, its approach could also be applied in other states of the country,
which includes about 4,500 local jurisdictions.
The project views the existing hierarchy of urban settlements and
the spatial pattern of agro-industrial and distributive activities as an
interdependent production and marketing system. Aggregate demographic and
economic projections for six sub-regions (or integrated sets of towns)
would be used as the basis for the re-distribution of an incremental
portion of State-shared revenues (US$97.5 million equivalent) which the
municipalities would invest in urban improvements over a four year period.
Equity concerns would be built into the spatial allocation of these
counterpart funds, which would accrue to participating municipalities
according to a scale of variable weights,designed to help small and less
dynamic communities to meet their basic needs. A measure of
cross-transfers would thus be introduced within each subregion, between
municipalities with greater and lesser revenue resources.
The proposed US$52.7 million Bank Loan would provide the State of
Parana with additional resources to be on-lent to rapidly urbanizing
communities, which would invest them in infrastructure improvements and
service the corresponding debt through locally generated revenues. The
application of Bank funds would therefore be strategic and selective,
inducing towns with the greatest growth potential to expand their fiscal
base and to achieve greater financial efficiency. A technical assistance
component is included to support this purpose. Since the larger cities of
Parana already have access to other credit schemes and are in a better
position to meet investment requirements, they would be excluded from the
project, which would be limited to towns with less than 50,000 inhabitants.






BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE PROJECT'S CONTEXT
Economic Development and Diversification
1.01      The economic performance of the State of Parana during the 1970's
was impressive. Despite low harvest years, agricultural output expanded at
nearly 10% per annum in real terms. Rapid development of modern
agro-industry and manufacturing led to average growth rates of over 19% per
year in these sectors, and to more than 12% in the commerce and service
sectors. With only 6.4% of Brazil's population and 2.3% of its land area,
Parana now accounts for 25% of the country's exports, over 30% of its grain
harvest and 17% of its foreign exchange earnings.   During the past decade,
the state's taxable income has more than tripled (344%). As a result,
Parana is one of the few states of Brazil which can sustain a certain level
of direct investment (about 10% of its yearly budget) with a low ratio of
debt service to receipts (around 8% - 9%) and limited dependence on federal
transfers and credit operations (respectively 13% and 14% of total
receipts).( See paras. 5.01, 5.02 and Tables 11 and 12, Annex 1).
1.02      A natural environment well suited to export crops (soil, topogra-
phy, climate, watercourses) and the entrepreneurial skills of recent waves
of immigrants do not by themselves explain the extraordinary dynamism and
versatility of Parana's economy. A number of other factors are often
cited: 1/
a)  the concentration of State investments on the development of
efficient transport, energy and communication networks;
b)  the rapid pace of colonization of the northwestern part of the
state, supported by modern technology and intensive
mechanization;
c)  the innovative and diversified character of Parana's
export-oriented agriculture, which fostered the growth of
agro-industry;
d)  the creation of a new marketing system for agricultural produce;
e)  the cumulative growth of productive and commercial capital,
associated first with the coffee cycle and now with the
cultivation of wheat and soya beans, which generated new forms of
investment such as banking and industry;
I/ Instituto Paranaense de Desenvolvimiento Economico e Social (IPARDES),
Parana, Economia e Sociedade, Curitiba, February 1982.



-2-
f) the pre-existence of a large and sophisticated nearby market (Sao
Paulo), which stimulated innovation and competitiveness in new
capital-intensive industrial enterprises in Parana;
g) the impact on agriculture of this new manufacturing sector which,
introducing new credit mechanisms, fostered absorption of
industrially produced inputs (machinery, pesticides,
fertilizers).
1.03      This economic success  was not accomplished without social
costs. Parana typifies a situation in which rapid economic development is
accompanied by severe tensions and relative gaps in social welfare. During
the process of colonization of the state, which basically took place during
the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's, the average rates of population increase
were 5.5%, 7.3% and 5.0% per annum respectively. Between 1940 and 1965 the
state was able to absorb productively no less than 2.7 million immigrants.
But in 1980 the population census revealed that the rate of demographic
increase had dropped below 1% during the preceding decade and that an
estimated 1.1 million people had left Parana2/.
1.04      The 1980 census also showed that an intensive process of urbani-
zation had taken place, with the population in cities passing from 36.1 to
58.6% of the total (an increase of nearly 6% per year while the rural pop-
ulation had diminished by 3.3% per annum). The rural exodus affected all
parts of the state but peaked in the fast modernizing northern and western
regions, where the mechanization of agriculture and the conversion to less
labor intensive crops eliminated large numbers of seasonal workers, share-
croppers, landless farmers and small producers. This gave rise to a new
category of urban-rural workers (the boias frias or, literally, "cold
meals"), who moved to the fringes of cities, subsisting on casual
employment. So far, this marginal population is small, amounting to some
30,000 squatters in Curitiba and other medium size cities, but represents a
visible sign of the plight of former rural laborers.
1.05      The dramatic changes in the agricultural market also affected
the traditional, family-structured producers of early Parana. These small
land owners were accustomed to raise a variety of crops with conventional
methods and to sell their surplus through an informal network. Many were
induced to sell their farms (76,000 during the period 1970-75), because the
absorption of credit and new technologies has obvious limitations below a
certain farm size (say 20 ha). The more enterprising of them moved to such
frontier states as Mato Grosso and Rondonia or, across the river, to
Paraguay, where they could buy estates many times larger, since farmland
prices in Parana had been inflated by the use of property as collateral for
rural credit.
1.06      Some of the more cohesive ethnic groups were able to respond to
the challenge by forming cooperatives (six such farming or dairy
cooperatives in Parana rank among Brazil's 500 largest enterprises). Yet,
2/ IPARDES estimates that about 590,000 people moved to Sao Paulo, 340,000
to other agricultural frontier regions like Rondonia and Mato Grosso,
and the balance to other States.   These figures, derived from
interstate comparisons of population according to the State of origin
and years of residence, fail to account for international emigration
(to Paraguay in particular).



-3-
the majority of small farmers, particularly in the eastern and southwestern
regions, remain entrenched in an increasingly difficult situation,
expressing their political dissent and advocating price support and
subsidies from the State Government, which perceives these measures as
inappropriate and inflationary in a market oriented economy.
1.07      The growth of cooperatives and the farm purchase of produce by
industries also displaced a class of middlemen, small independent dealers
and transport workers, leaving room only for large commercial enterprises.
1.08      In the late 1970's, violent social tensions were generated by
sudden transformations in land tenure, particularly in the northern and
western areas, where titles are often ill defined and there is increasing
pressure for land acquisition. In addition, the filling of the ITAIPU
basin during 1982 has inundated some 83,500 ha and a large additional area
will disappear as soon as the proposed dams on the Paranapanema river are
implemented. Finally, the phasing out of civil works at ITAIPU is creating
short-term adjustment problems in Foz de Iguacu, a boom town grown out of
proportion to its commercial and touristic potential.
1.09      An analysis of State budgets over the 1970's reveals a
progressive contraction of expenditure in the social sectors (from 45% to
38%). The latter have received increasing attention in recent budgets (see
Table 12, Annex 1) but the State Government is under pressure to implement
a more aggressive policy of social investments. These would focus on
agricultural areas and smaller urban settlements, including social security
and medical assistance for temporary rural workers, better integration of
women in the labor market, child care at the workplace, public nutrition,
rural education and low-cost housing programs. While the corresponding
pressures on current expenditure must be carefully planned, the state
budget structure allows some margins for re-adjustment. Parana's planners
also expect larger fiscal resources from a modified federal policy and
increasing delegation of responsibility to local administrations. To what
extent these expectations will be met by a possible reform of the Brazilian
fiscal system remains an open question under the current economic
circumstances.
State and Municipal Finance3/
1.10   In Brazil, urban infrastructure, housing and the provision of public
services like primary and secondary education, health and other facilities
are mainly the responsibility of subnational governments, which account for
nearly 80% of public expenditures in these sectors. However, the ability
of subnational governments to fulfill these responsibilities is directly
related to federal revenue sharing policies and to the returns of the value
added tax (the ICM, which in 1982 amounted to about 66% and 37% of public
receipts for Parana's state and municipal governments respectively). After
the 1973-74 'oil shock', the Federal Goverment made use of the ICM as an
3/ A comprehensive paper on state and local finance in Brazil has been
recently produced by Bank staff (Report No. 4060-BR of September 27,
1982). Many of the comments made in this section draw on the
conclusions of that report. Specific information and data on municipal
finance in Parana have been gathered locally by the appraisal mission
staff. A random sample of 52 municipal budgets was analyzad for 1980,
1981 and 1982,including communities below 50,000 inhabitants from
different areas of Parana (See para. 5.05 and Tables 16 to 20, Annex
1).



-4-
instrument of economic recovery, by reducing tax rates and allowing ad hoc
exemptions. Only the sustained dynamism of its economy allowed Parana
(with a few other states) to remain relatively independent of federal
support, but the financial condition of its municipalities has deteriorated
rapidly, particularly in rural areas. The state is still relatively well
off because of its low level of previous indebtedness, and the reduced rate
of population growth, which restrained demand for public services and
current expenditures and allowed the Government to concentrate investment
in the transport and energy sectors.
1.11      At present, Parana's smaller municipalities raise less than 20%
of their revenues through a variety of direct charges, and receive another
33% from the State as their share of the value added (ICM) and property
transfer (ITBI) taxes collected in their jurisdictions (see Table 15, Annex
1). On the average, another 28% consists of earmarked Federal Participa-
tion Funds corresponding to the municipal shares of the Income Tax (IR) and
the Manufacturers Sales Tax (IPI).4/ The balance is made up by a small
amount of direct borrowing (3%) and special State transfers. The typical
pattern of outlays is heavily slanted towards current expenditures, which
amount to 71% of total budgets. Investment (mainly public works and
equipment) remains below 24%, with capital transfers accounting for the
remainder.
1.12      The generalized picture presented above does not reflect
variations in budget volume and composition among the 310 municipalities
into which the state is subdivided. These vary in each municipality,
depending on its natural resources, accessibility, population,
urbanization, trade and industrial activities. The situation can be
summarized as follows:
a)   since the fiscal system basically returns to their origin fixed
proportions of tax receipts, municipalities with population
centers of less than 10,000 people face increasing difficulties
in meeting their current expenditures. These account for up to
70% of their revenues and mostly are spent on feeder road
maintenance (giving access to individual farms) and on rural
education (teacher payrolls and school buses);
b)   direct urban-type taxes, such as the real estate tax (IPTU) and
the urban services tax (ISS) are inappropriate in these
predominantly rural areas (yielding less than 5% of total
receipts). Therefore most municipalities have introduced an
array of betterment charges, licensing fees, and other levies,
but their yield still remains limited (they account for only 9%
of the budgets). As a result, state and federal transfers are
needed from year to year to finance limited investment programs;
c)   Federal Participation Funds, fed by the income tax (IR) and the
manufacturers sales tax (IPI), have but a modest equalizing
impact. This is overshadowed by the redistribution pattern of
the state collected value added tax (ICM), which reverts mostly
to places where the produce is sold and processed rather than
harvested, thus promoting urban concentration;
4/ The Federal Government shares about 10% of its tax receipts with the
municipalities and requires the States to share 25% of their tax
receipts with the respective municipalities.



-5-
d) ironically, a consequence of the current compensatory mechanisms
is to encourage further disaggregation of rural municipalities,
since the allocation formulas give a premium to smaller
communities which, once subdivided, gain direct (and
proportionally higher) access to federal and state transfers;
e) annual investment in public works and equipment is relatively
large in fifty other rapidly urbanizing communities, with between
10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, a few of which are eligible for
public credit and can offset the diminishing returns of the value
added tax by introducing real estate taxation;
f) metropolitan Curitiba (as the state capital) and several other
cities above 50,000 people benefit from special federal and state
allocations, selective access to long-term credit schemes, and
enjoy larger returns from the value added tax. Because of their
physical growth and high level of public investment, they also
have a better chance to expand their direct revenue base through
improved collections of "urban" type taxes.
Parana's Emerging Spatial Structure
1.13      With 7.6 million inhabitants, 59% of whom are already urbanized,
Parana has a hierarchy of settlements which is rapidly evolving in response
to public sector improvements in infrastructure and to private sector
transformations of rural land use, tenure and marketing patterns.
The state's urban system is quite balanced, closely resembling a rank-size
Lorenz distribution curve, typical of fairly homogenous territorial units,
in which communication networks and market centers have grown in pace with
the accumulation of an agricultural surplus. Industrial, commercial and
service activities achieved significant concentrations in a few larger
cities, during the 1970's, while the State economy expanded at record
rates.
1.14      Two major conurbations now dominate the system: the RMC (Curitiba
Metropolitan Region: 1,300,000 inhabitants), situated in the southeast, at
the point of convergence of the two 'export corridors' which traverse the
state towards the port-city of Paranagua, and the METRONOR axis of
eleven towns (about 660,000 people altogether) in the center of the rich
northern region. Besides these two agglomerations, some ten other
subregional centers exist at different critical junctions of the highway
and rail networks. (see map IBRD 16876). In 1980, 46% of the State's
industrial and commercial income was generated in metropolitan Curitiba,
24% in nine subregional centers and only 30% in municipalities with less
than 50,000 inhabitants.
1.15      The extent of concentration of non-agricultural activies in the
urban areas, is illustrated by the fact that Parana's ten largest cities
(containing 54% of the urban population in 23 municipalities) increased
their share of industrial and commercial income from 62% to 70% over the
1970's. The proportional contribution of the less urbanized municipalities
to these economic sectors declined, while they maintained aboutthe same
share of the State agricultural income, which expanded by two and one half
times (see Project File, Annex B, Table B-1)



-6-
1.16      The number of settlements in the lower tiers of the urban
hierarchy is particularly significant: 287 seats of municipal government
are in towns of less than 50,000 inhabitants (see Table 13, Annex 1).
These secondary settlements function as marketing and processing centers
for agricultural produce, while providing urban services to the rural
population of their hinterlands. Some of them, more strategically located
than others within a fine web of secondary transportation links, perform a
critical role in the organization of productive activities throughout the
State and are rapidly increasing their populations.   In others, population
has tended to stabilize.
1.17      The administrations of these small towns are competing for
modernization in a climate in which public investment capital is scarce and
medium or long-term borrowing is virtually non existent. An innovative and
entrepreneurial approach characterizes their management of public revenues
and their efforts to attract taxable productive establishments to increase
their receipts (see sample interviews in Annex E of the Project File). The
project would focus especially on these smaller centers and would help them
to achieve a level of infrastructure and community facilities commensurate
with local growth requirements and the fiscal contributions of their
residents.
1.18      A considerable diversity of situations exists in Parana's
subregions, depending on the age (and stage) of land development,
climatic, soil and topographic differences and specific patterns of land
use, transportation and urban growth (see Project File, Annex A). The most
impressive feature of the settlement pattern is the rapidity of
inter-regional and intra-regional population movements, typified by the
drastic reduction of the farm population in the northern and western
regions (see Tables A-1 to A-7 in Project File, Annex A). Other features
are the progressive intensification of land use and the concentration of
holdings in the central region, the stepped up urbanization process in the
eastern region and the relative stagnation of traditional agriculture in
the southern region. Substantial differences also exist in the level of
taxable income per capita, reflecting the relative productivity of primary
activities and the increasing diversification of local economies. While a
finer territorial breakdown by microregions reveals sharper differences,
the tables and maps in Annex A of the Project File provide an aggregate
summary of these characteristics for six major regions. This broad picture
takes account of the functional hierarchy of existing urban subsystems,
their interdependence and reciprocal accessibility and provides a framework
for the spatial allocation of resources (see paras. 4.05 to 4.09 and
Project File, Annex B).
II. SECTOR AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Brazil's Urban Development Trends
2.01      From a more general perspective, the urbanization process of
Parana is only a reflection of the larger movement taking place in most of
Brazil. Much of the State demographic overspill has been directed to
metropolitan Sao Paolo, an agglomeration of about 10 million inhabitants.
Curitiba is but one of a dozen metropolitan areas which alone account for



-7-
30% of the country's population. About two thirds of Brazil's population
(some eighty million) now live in cities. The growth of urban centers has
accelerated since World War II, and maintained an average annual rate of
4.4% per annum through the 1970's, against an average of 2.5% for the
country as a whole. With the influx of rural migrants, substandard
conditions and poverty have become widespread in Brazilian cities.
Although expanding, the urban economies could not provide jobs at a
sufficiently fast rate to absorb the excess labor in the formal sector.
A large informal sector has developed in the larger metropolitan areas,
consisting basically of service and trade activities. The demand for
shelter, infrastructure and public services far outstrips the financial
means and the implementation capacities of public administrations. Public
transport service has become overcrowded, traffic congestion imposes severe
strains on city efficiency and adds to deteriorating environmental
conditions. In general urban growth tends to be too rapid and concentrated
to allow for efficient regulation organization of land use.
Federal Urban Policy and Institutions
2.02      During the past decade, the Federal Government has focussed on
urban development as an explicit policy concern. A National Urban
Development Council (CNDU) was established, chaired by the Minister of the
Interior and including the Secretary General of SEPLAN, the Deputy
Ministers of Interior, Transport, Finance, Industry and Commerce and the
Presidents of the National Housing Bank (BNH) and the Brazilian Urban
Transport Company (EBTU). The main focus of CNDU policies is to deflect
migration from metropolitan regions and to re-direct it towards medium
sized and small urban centers, containing the growth and ever more costly
infrastructure needs of the metropolitan areas, and achieving a better
spatial distribution of population and economic activities. BNH is
carrying out large urban improvement schemes by mobilizing and channeling
domestic savings. In 1971, it launched a National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA)
with the aim of supplying piped water to 5,700 urban centers and building
sewerage disposal facilities in all cities with more than 100,000
inhabitants. In 1973, BNH formulated a Low-Income Housing Plan (PLANHAB)
to be implemented by State and Municipally owned housing companies
(COHAB's) and in 1975, a sites and services program (PROFILURB) financing
low-cost shelter solutions for the urban poor. EBTU was established in
1976 to promote development and innovation in public transport engineering,
modernization and equipment.
Urban Sector Lending in Brazil
2.03      Five out of seven urban development loans made so far by the Bank
to Brazil have concentrated on metropolitan regions. Two (the Medium
Sized Cities Project, Loan 1720-BR and the Third Urban Transport Project,
Loan 1965-BR) sought to support the Government policy of strengthening
intermediate cities and containing the growth rates and expensive
infrastructure requirements of the largest urban agglomerations.
Discussions with the National Urban Development Council (CNDU) and with the
Federal Planning Secretariat hai.: revealed a desire to continue Bank
financing for metropolitan regions and medium sized cities and a further
interest in complementing these activities with projects aimed at small
towns, to help develop a balanced approach to investment across the



-8-
urban hierarchy. The proposed Market Towns Improvement Project in the
State of Parana is consistent with this objective.
Municipal Governments
2.04      Parana State is presently subdivided in 310 municipalities.
These represent administrative and geographical units of variable area and
population, comprising the rural territory and the secondary settlements
surrounding a main urban nucleus, which is the seat of the local
government. The latter is headed by a mayor (prefeito), who is generally
elected by popular vote, except in the State capitals and in border zone
municipalities, where they are named by the State governors. The municipal
councils, formed by five to fifty vereadores, are ordinarily elected for
four year terms, like the mayor.   The councils legislate on matters of
purely local interest, such as adopting the annual budget, setting local
taxes, enacting the town plan, subdivision and building codes, deciding on
the construction and maintenance of municipal roads and streets, and
establishing fines for violation of ordinances. Provision of primary level
education (both urban and rural), health and sanitation, urban services and
housing constitute the principal responsibilities of municipal
administrations, which receive limited financial support for these purposes
through Federal and State transfers.
State Approach to Municipal Improvement
2.05      During the past two years, the State of Parana has intensified
its financial and technical assistance to local governments, developing
their managerial capabilities, guiding them in the realization of
investment priorities and supporting them in the independent execution of
small scale works. In 1981, the State Government launched a special
capital improvement program to offset existing distortions in the
distribution of shared fiscal revenues to those municipalities with
relatively less investment capacity. For this purpose, the State Economic
Planning Secretariat (SEPL) established an ad hoc task force (the
Secretaria Extraordinaria para Asuntos de Desenvolvimento dos Municipios or
SEDM), which invested the equivalent of US$21 million in 1981 and US$27
million in 1982 (see Table 2, Annex 1).
2.06      The philosophy underlying this program was that local
administrators, who are accountable to their constituencies for the use of
budgetary resources, should have a say as to what their needs are.  They
were therefore asked to indicate their investment requirements from a
standard list of works and services eligible for financing, subject to
overall guidelines, and review and final endorsement by the State
authorities. Thus far, direct recovery of these investments by the
municipalities has been satisfactory (see paras. 5.10 and 5.11 and Annex E,
Project File) even though not enforced by the State, which left it to the
initiative of local city councils. The basic justification of the program
was that the State, by returning to the municipalities an additional share
of their fiscal contributions in form of investment capital, would enable
them to use their own resources for operating and maintaining essential
services such as rural road maintenance and primary education. Program
funds were therefore transferred without obligation to repayment and local
contributions for increasing the scope of investments were optional.



-9-
Operational Structure
2.07      The executive team for SEDM, the special secretariat created to
start off the Market Towns Improvement program, was drawn from the
municipal cadre of Curitiba, where its members had acquired experience and
prestige in the administration of earlier large-scale projects, some of
them financed by the World Bank. SEDM incorporated three state agencies:
the Parana Municipal Assistance Foundation (FAMEPAR); the Parana Public
Works Company (EMOPAR); and the Parana Public Housing Company (COHAPAR).
Building on the existing decentralized offices of the three agencies and
complementing their staff, SEDM established a network of 14 subregional
centers, each serving an average of twenty municipalities. The typical
staffing of these branch offices included seven to eight people, of whom
half were professionals. The field staff performed technical and
accounting supervision of the municipalities, which executed the works
mainly through local contractors and partially through force account. The
central office in Curitiba monitored the overall progress of the program,
the distribution of funds and the flow of expenditures. During the past
two years this system has reached a satisfactory degree of efficiency. The
staff was carefully selected and contacts with headquarters were
facilitated by the excellent network of communications (telephone, telex,
highways, railways and airstrips) and an advanced system of computer
processing of statistical and accounting information.
2.08      Through this network, the State has guided, advised and
controlled works in the municipalities. In order to maintain frequent
contact with local administrators, the subregional office staffs have
carried out technical supervision missions in each municipality twice a
month. In turn, the local governments have been improving and
strengthening their cadres and learning how to better manage their own
finances. The idea behind the establishment of the regional offices was to
provide a pool of resident technicians, capable of solving local problems
through direct, simple and relatively inexpensive solutions. The longer
term objective was to transfer this personnel to the municipalities, so
that the necessary professional and administrative skills would become
available within each community. The distribution and location of this
personnel is shown in Table 1, Annex 1.
2.09      On March 15, 1983, a new Administration took office in Parana.
The State Government, with the strong endorsement of Federal authorities,
intends to expand the market towns improvement program and has requested
the participation of the World Bank. The National Council for Urban
Development (CNDU) has expressed interest in monitoring the project, with a
view to developing similar programs in other states. Responsibility for
project execution would be assumed directly by the State Secretariat of
Planning (SEPL), rather than by SEDM, whose functions would be absorbed by
SEPS.
2.10      The statutory functions of SEPL are the following:
a)  normative, methodological and technological orientation of
development programs carried out by other State Secretariats;
b)  evaluation, control and monitoring of the achievement of targets
set in sector plans, programs, agreements and budgets;



-10-
c)  guidance of government institutions in the preparation of yearly
budgets, consolidation of such budgets and monitoring of their
application;
d)  management of studies, surveys and projects of a social, economic
and institutional nature within its own area of concern, those of
a multisectoral character, or of special priority;
e)  production of data and information, their collation and
systematic distribution to secretariats and government agencies;
f)  computer processing of information and management of systems and
methods;
g)  execution of studies related to the creation, transformation,
expansion, merging or elimination of entities and administrative
units directly or indirectly controlled by the State and
performance of related activities.
Parana's State Bank
2.11      The Banco do Estado do Parana (BANESTADO) would be designated by
the State to channel the project f-nds to the participating
municipalities. BANESTADO is a Ftate owned development bank which lends
primarily to the agricultural and export sectors of the state and
administers funds on behalf of federal financial institutions such as BNH
and BNDE. As of the end of 1981, its consolidated assets amounted to
CR$206.5 billion (US$1.6 billion) and its net profit to CR$4.2 billion
(US$333 million) or about 300% above that of 1980. BANESTADO also
functions as a clearing house for the proceeds of municipal, state and
federal taxes. Its wide reach is reflected in the large network of 260
branches in the state.
Related Programs
2.12      A past and future responsibility of the SEPL is to assure
congruency between the Market Towns Improvement program and other
investment activities of the State. Significant complementarities exist
with the Federally assisted CIATA program (Incentive Agreements for
Municipal Technical and Administrative Improvement) which in Parana is
managed by FAMEPAR, a State agency under the SEPL umbrella. This program
provides municipalities with technical assistance for upgrading local tax
codes, completing urban property and business cadastres, updating real
estate assessments and improving tax collections, accounting systems and
planning capabilities. Parana is the leading State in Brazil for the
CIATA program with 120 municipalities (25% of the national total) already
implementing projects.
2.13      COHAPAR, the Parana Housing Company, is channeling BNH credits to
municipalities which have more than 50,000 inhabitants for the construction
of low-cost housing. This agency built 33,000 housing units in 150
municipalities in 1980 and another 10,000 in 1981. EMOPAR, the Parana
Public Works Company, implements civil works throughout the State. Its



total investment in 1981 amounted to the equivalent of US$31 million.
Special State and federally assisted investment programs exist for the
Curitiba metropolitan region, the METRONOR conurbation and a dozen medium
sized cities. These are mainly financed through earmarked shares of taxes
on vehicle registration, and fuel and lubricants consumption (FNDU).
Borrowing Experience of Parana State
2.14      The State has a strong record of association with the World Bank
and other multilateral lending organizations. The Curitiba component of
the First Urban Transport loan (IBRD Loan 1563-BR) was successfully
implemented, disbursing in one year funds budgeted over a three year
period. A number of medium sized cities in the State are presently
improving their public transport networks under the EBTU-PROPAV program
(IBRD Loan 1965-BR). SANEPAR, the State Water and Sanitation Agency has
received World Bank support (Loan 1823-BR) for implementing major water
supply and sewerage projects in the larger cities, and extensions or
improvements of water supply systems in 32 other medium sized cities.
DER-PR, the Parana State Highway Department (assisted under Loan 1557-BR)
is carrying out a maintenance, rehabilitation and traffic control project
through five newly created regional centers and another 18 improved
district stations. COPEL, the State Power Company, has received a series
of Bank and IDB loans. The IDB financed PRO-RURAL project aims at the
modernization of agricultural and marketing practices, increased food
production and employment generation in 61 municipalities of the eastern
subregion. Supervision reports on the Parana components of Bank projects
record satisfactory implementation progress and above average disbursement
performances in the Brazilian context.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01      The possibility of Bank involvement in the Municipal Capital
Improvement Program of the State of Parana was first discussed with Bank
staff in the spring of 1981 and a revised version of the project was
presented in July 1982 by the Secretariat of Municipal Development (SEDM).
Following confirmation by the Federal Government that this was a priority
project, two brief reconnaissance missions to Parana were carried out in
1982. A more detailed proposal prepared by SEDM was reviewed by Bank staff
and discussed with the Government during August 1982. The appraisal
mission took place in October 1982.
Main Features of the Project
3.02      The proposed loan would finance urban infrastructure and public
service facilities in 287 market towns of variable size (from less than
2,500 inhabitants up to 50,000 inhabitants) in the State of Parana. The
municipalities which constitute the metropolitan region of Curitiba and the
nine medium-sized cities which are already covered by parallel federal and
state supported programs would be excluded. Funding would be provided on
two bases. First, fiscal resources would be transferred from the State's
yearly budget to municipalities using an agreed procedure (See Para 8.05,
Table 14, Annex I and Project File, Annex B). Second, incremental
resources provided to the Federative Republic of Brazil under the Bank



-12-
loan, would be on-lent to eligible municipalities by the State of Parana,
which would receive from the Borrower the proceeds from the loan under the
same terms and conditions. Subproject proposals would be evaluated by
SEPL staff according to Bank approved selection criteria (see para. 8.06).
These would apply to both the transfers program and to the subloans (see
Annexes C and G, Project File). The State has been operating the transfers
program for the past two years and has in place an efficient system of
physical and financial controls: the former through a network of regional
offices, the latter through the State Accounts Tribunal (see para. 4.17).
3.03      Building on past experience with the SEDM program, the project
would represent Brazil's first attempt to plan infrastructure and service
investments in small towns on the basis of a comprehensive overview of the
urban hierarchy at the State level. Because its scope is limited to the
statutory functions of municipal governments, the project would not address
structural issues of rural employment, land tenure and agricultural
transformation, which lie at the root of the population exodus from rural
areas to large cities and other states. It would however make an indirect
contribution to the alleviation of some concomitant causes (such as the
shortage of urban support facilities) and may help in the creation of local
employment in construction activities and in the operation of public
services. Better endowment of urban infrastructure and services would
support local private investment and strengthen the functional efficiency
of the market towns (see paras. 6.03, 6.04 and Project File, Annex E).
3.04      The project, which includes a technical assistance component,
would provide better access to public services for an estimated 4.9 million
people (over half the State population) and help adjust standards of living
to their productive and fiscal contributions to the economy. In addition
to its direct benefits, the project would assist in clarifying the economic
role of market towns and the factors influencing their independent capacity
to offer urban services to the farming population, in the context of a
progressive and gradual reduction of Federal and state transfers.
Objectives of Bank Participation
3.05      The Bank's participation in this project would help achieve the
following objectives:
- develop an alternative system of long-term borrowing and cost
recovery for municipalities, as a first step towards emancipating
the more viable communities from their present dependence on State
and federal transfers;
- introduce systematic criteria for the selection of subprojects and
for the allocation of investment resources to different sized towns
and different subregions (see paras. 4.05 to 4.09 and Annexes B and
C in the Project File);
- promote, develop, and apply fiscal recovery of investment costs by
recipient municipalities, rewarding local initiatives and
intensified efforts in this respect (see paras. 5.11 and 5.12);



-13-
- improve the standards of living of the population in small towns,
through the provision of urban infrastructure and services and the
enhancement of their potential for economic growth.
Project Costs
3.06      Project costs refer only to the State-financed Municipal Capital
Improvement Program, which is estimated at US$150.2 equivalent, including
base costs, contingencies and the front-end fee on the proposed loan.
Municipal contributions in kind (labor and construction materials) are
expected to amount to about US$40 million or 30% over and above the State
Program. The Bank participation of US$52.5 million would represent 35% of
the State Program. Project costs by component (excluding municipal
contributions) are presented in Table 1 below. Further cost details are
shown in Annex A, Project File. Project cost estimates were based on the
actual costs of similar subprojects recently executed in Parana, and
exclude taxes. Because of their simple nature, works financed under the
project are not expected to require much adaptation from existing designs.
An average allowance of 10% has been made to account for physical increases
on all components.
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Percent of
Project Components               Local  Foreign   Total   Base Cost
a. Infrastructure                50.4    27.1      77.5        65.0
b. Community Facilities          17.9     9.6      27.5        23.0
c. Equipment and Vehicles         5.4     2.9       8.3         7.0
d. Technical Assistance           3.9     2.1       6.0         5.0
BASE COST                        77.5    41.8    119.3        100.0
Physical Increase              7.8     4.2      12.0        10.0
Price Escalation              12.2     6.5      18.7        15.7
CONTINGENCIES                    20.0    10.7      30.7        25.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST               97.5    52.5    150.0        125.7
Front End Fee                     --        .2       .2          .3
TOTAL FINANCE REQUIRED           97.5    52.7      150.2
3.07      Given the unpredictability of local exchange and inflation rates
during the project period, no attempt has been made to express costs in
current cruzeiros or standard conversion units, and the simpler expression
in current dollars has been preferred. Base costs, were determined by
updating dollar equivalent prices as of October 1982, to a June 30, 1983
level, applying an assumed inflation rate of 8% per annum. Price
escalation estimates were expressed in US$ dollars for both foreign and
local costs, assuming that higher inflation of local prices would be
compensated by adjustments in the exchange rate between the cruzeiro and



-14-
the dollar. They were computed at the following assumed rates of
inflation: 1983 = 8%; 1984 = 7.5%; 1985 = 7%; 1986 and thereafter = 6%.
Project Components
3.08      The Bank has agreed with the State Government on:  (i) the
criteria for allocating counterpart funds to individual municipalities (see
paras 8.05 and 4.05); and (ii) the criteria for selection of eligible
subprojects (see paras. 8.06 and 4.07). Subprojects proposed for the
first year program (1983) have been selected according to the guidelines
and eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank. Specific trade-offs may be
dictated by the actual financial capacity of individual municipalities to
carry subloans of the proposed amounts. This would be ascertained by the
State Bank in finalizing credit agreements. Analysis of a wide sample of
municipal budgets (see para. 5.05), indicates that these internal changes
are not likely, however, to substantially alter the overall composition of
the project. A monitoring and evaluation program would be established (see
paras. 8.10 e) and 8.11 and paras. 4.20 and 4.21), to guide the annual
assignment of resources, which would be periodically reviewed by the Bank
during project implementation (see para. 8.01). The detailed list of
subprojects eligible for financing is presented in the Project File, Annex
D.  The unit cost of  typical subprojects is given in Table 2, Annex 1.  A
general description by major categories is given below.
3.09      Infrastructure subprojects represent by far the most important
category of investments (65% of total project costs). The greatest amount
(32.8%) would be used for paving town streets and squares. These works
would be carried to variable degrees of completion from basic levelling and
sub-grade compaction to fully paved surfaces. Specifications would be
adapted to the local supply of material and skilled labor (cobblestone
would be used wherever available). Rural road rehabilitation and the
construction of small timber bridges or river crossings (10.5%) would
represent a second significant item. This would also vary in scope and
techniques of execution from municipality to municipality. The extension
of power connections, water distribution and miscellaneous sanitation works
(particularly septic tank installation) would constitute another 10.5%.
The remainder would be for storm drainage, street lighting, street
furniture, landscaping and siteworks.
3.10      Community facilities subprojects would represent 23% of total
project costs. They would consist mainly of the construction of rural
schools, kindergartens, and complementary facilities, social centers,
health posts, bus terminals and other public buildings (15%). Other
typical subprojects would be sportsgrounds, gymnasia and recreation centers
(11.5%).
3.11      Equipment and Vehicles would make up 7% of total cost.  Purchase
of road maintenance equipment and school buses would account for half of
this component. In the past, some mayors have taken initiatives to finance
improvement and equipment of stone quarries, production of concrete pipes
and curbs and purchase of machinery for similar activities. A minor
provision (3.5% of project costs) has been included for expenditures of
this type because of their cost saving impact on other components or their
limited, but beneficial effect on employment.



-15-
3.12      Technical assistance services would be contracted to specialized
state agencies such as FAMEPAR and EMOPAR (see paras. 2.07 and 2.08). A
uniform allowance of 5.25% has been made on the cost of all investment
subprojects to cover the costs of design, tendering and supervision of
works, for preparation of town planning surveys, zoning and circulation
plans, for assistance in cadastral registration, real estate assessment and
property tax administration, and guidance in the improvement of accounting
practices. A program of technical assistance services, covering all
participating municipalities and defining priorities, staff commitments and
a schedule for its implementation would be presented by SEPL to the Bank
during the first semester of project implementation (see para. 8.10).
Technical assistance costs, including project administration, and overhead
have been estimated at $7.5 million, covering 3,750 staff months at an
average cost of US$2,000 per month.
Financing Plan
3.13      The project calls for investment of US$150.2 million.  The State
of Parana would finance the equivalent of US$97.5 million from its own
budgetary resources over a four-year period. The proceeds of a Bank loan
of US$52.7 million (35% of total project cost plus front-end fee of
US$131,421) would be passed-on on the same terms and conditions to the
State, which would undertake full repayment to the Borrower (see
para. 8.12). No Federal Government contribution would be required.
3.14      The State transfer funds (US$97.5 million) would be apportioned
to 287 municipalities containing towns with less than 50,000 inhabitants on
the basis of the relative size of their urban populations and expected
growth over the project period (see para. 4.05). Although the contribution
of matching funds to complement State transfers would not be required as a
general rule, most municipalities would continue to supply labor and
materials from their own resources. On the basis of the records kept, in
1981 and 1982, these local contributions have increased State investments
in the program by about 30%. Thus municipalities may provide an additional
US$40 million equivalent, which would widen the scope of the Municipal
Capital Improvement Program to about US$190 million (see Table 7, Annex 1).
3.15      Bank loan proceeds would be on-lent to those municipalities which
would be willing and able to carry the corresponding debt service (see
para. 8.04). The maturity of subloans would be ten (10) years, with a
grace period sufficient to cover implementation of works financed but not
exceeding three years. The interest rate and the monetary correction would
be consistent with those applied by the National Housing Bank (BNH) in its
infrastructure loans to larger cities in Parana5/. Proceeds from the
value added tax (ICM) collected by the State and to be shared with the
borrowing municipalities, would be used as collateral for subloans,
according to well established Brazilian practice (see paras. 8.04 b) and
8,13 d)).
5/  Currently, BNH loans to Parana's larger municipalities (under the CURA
program) bear an interest rate of 6% per annum, are subject to monetary
correction and are repaid in 240 monthly installments with three years
of grace. Loans are expressed in UPC (standardized capital units of
account indexing the value of outstanding principal).



-16-
3.16      The indicative project investment plan (in June, 1983 US$ million
equivalent) would be as follows:
Table 2: INDICATIVE PROJECT INVESTMENT PLAN
Financing Sources               1983    1984    1985    1986    Total         %
Parana State transfers          4.5      27.4    41.4    24.2    97.5    65.0%
World Bank financed Subloans  2.4        14.8    22.2    13.1    52.5    35.0%
Front end Fee                    .2        -        -       -        .2       -
TOTAL PROJECT COST              7.1      42.2    63.6    37.3   150.2   100.0%
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Arrangements
4.01      The loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil. The
executing agency would be the State Secretariat of Economic Planning
(SEPL), which would administer and supervise the program. Funds for the
program would be appropriated annually in the budget of the State (see
para. 8.01) and would be committed over three years by BANESTADO (Parana's
State Bank), which has the capacity to handle the corresponding work volume
(some 100-150 subloans per year). The State Account Tribunal (Tribunal de
Contas) would monitor expenditures. Disbursement of loan proceeds would be
made from a Special Account established at the Central Bank of Brazil (see
paras. 8.14 and 4.16). Formalization of arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank between the Federative Republic of Brazil, the State of Parana and
BANESTADO would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (see para.
8.17). Loan proceeds would be passed on by the Borrower to the State on
the same terms and conditions as in the Bank Loan.
Past Criteria of Resource Allocation
4.02      Until now, the basic criterion used by SEDM in 1981 and 1982 in
the annual distribution of funds among the participating municipalities6/
was to apportion resources according to the urban population of each
municipality as recorded by the 1980 census.  In the past two years,
municipalities received a graduated investment per capita, which favored
the less urbanized municipalities, on the assumption that their direct
revenue base was weakest. While congruent with the urban character of the
works and services financed, this approach had several shortcomings:
a)   it did not reflect the specific trends of urban development
(certain towns were and are growing faster and slower than
others, regardless of their 1980 size);
6/ The actual number of municipalities participating in SEDM's program in
1981-82 was 271. Both the criteria of eligibility used by the State
and the actual number of municipalities varied over time.



-17-
b)   it failed to account for regional differences in income, fiscal
revenues and comparative advantage among municipalities;
c)   it attributed low per capita coefficients to municipalities with
a large aggregate urban population whether concentrated in a
single nucleus or residing in separate agglomerations, all of
which require investment;
d)   it did not reward municipal contributions of matching funds or
local initiatives towards fiscal recovery of investments costs.
4.03      With regard to the selection of subprojects, the practice in the
past two years was to fix performance standards and a cost ceiling for each
type of subproject, and to leave to the town councils the decision on the
particular mix of subprojects which could be financed with the money
available in any given year.  This took place through a process of annual
consultations with the mayors, organized on a subregional basis, during
which SEDM officials tried to maintain some balance in the overall
composition of the investment program. For instance, during 1981 and 1982,
the state wide targets of 65% for infrastructure investments, and 30% for
community facilities were achieved (see Table 2, Annex 1) despite wide
local variations in subsectoral priorities. Furthermore, no two towns were
equally endowed with public improvements of a given type and the funds
available would only fulfill a marginal portion of the needs addressed
(e.g. road paving or utility connections).
Proposed Criteria for Resource Allocation
4.04      As a condition of the loan, SEPL would agree to adopt systematic
criteria in the allocation of transfer and credit funds (see paras. 8.03,
8.04 and Project File, Annex B). These criteria and the methods of
resource distribution, are detailed in a Manual of Lending Policies and
Procedures which is referred to in the Draft Loan and Project Agreement.
Agreement on the essential provisions of this manual and of the sub-loan
contract for eligible municipalities was reached during negotiations (see
para. 8.02 and Project File, Annexes G and H). The main features of the
new system are summarized below.
4.05      Allocation of Grant Funds.  First, the State would appropriate
the funds for the transfer program in its yearly budgets. These would be
divided among six main subregions according to the aggregate urban
population of the component municipalities in 1985 (the mid-year of the
1983-1987 implementation period). Since it is reasonable to assume
continued internal migration to and from different parts of the State, and
higher urban growth in areas of faster economic development, the population
distribution resulting from extrapolation of 1970-1980 demographic trends
would be adjusted to projections of subregional income growth over the same
period7/ (see Table 13, Annex 1). Thus, while the system would be based
7/ Yearly production trends have been estimated by IPARDES in constant
1980 cruzeiros for each of 24 microregions, for the State as a whole
and for a sample of 42 municipalities, in the agricultural, industrial
and commerce sectors (see IPARDES: Renda Interna do Parana por
Microregioes Homogeneas e Municipios Selecionados, Curitiba,
August, 1982).



-18-
on a per capita allocation, it would have a marginal correction for the
economic productivity differentials of each subregion.
4.06      Second, the resources allocated to each subregion would be
distributed to individual municipalities on the basis of the size of their
urban populations. A five tier classification would be used for this
purpose, categorizing municipalities according to the number of 1980
residents in the main center. For towns of the same rank, the per capita
quotients would be factored by a system of variable weights, so as to
compensate for the lower resource generating capacity of smaller towns.
The proposed method for this apportionment was demonstrated during
appraisal to State authorities, who considered it applicable and consistent
with the objectives of the program. Final agreement was achieved in the
course of negotiations (See para. 8.05 and Project File, Annex B for
detailes).
4.07      Third, SEPL would refine the procedures for selecting
subproject proposals by local administrations. A set of criteria to guide
this selection has been discussed and agreed during negotiations (see
para. 8.06 and Project File, Annex C). These include: (i) subproject
impact criteria (on the area, the municipality and the subsector);
(ii) technical criteria (plans, specifications, least cost, work schedule,
labor intensity, local implementation capacity, operation and maintenance
arrangements); (iii) target group criteria (need, affordable costs,
benefitting population, distribution of benefits); (iv) financial and
economic criteria (share of total investment program, municipal
contribution, expected cost recovery, impact on current costs, share of
borrowed funds if any, repayment schedule and debt service, local
experience with past SEDM programs, local resource mobilization, debt
capacity tests). Targets for the overall subsectoral composition of the
four-year program have been also agreed (65% in infrastructure; 23% in
community facilities; 7% in vehicles and equipment and 5% in technical
assistance (see Project File, Annex D).
4.08      Allocation of Loan Funds.   The proceeds from the Bank loan would
be on-lent by SEPL to municipalities which would apply for subloans and
meet the required tests of eligibility.  Such tests would ascertain the
capacity of a municipality to repay the borrowed amount, its capacity to
implement, operate and maintain the facilities and to carry the
corresponding financial burden (see para. 8.04 a)). There is a sufficient
number of actively interested municipalities to absorb the loan funds over
the project period (see Table 15, Annex 1).
4.09      In borrowing municipalities the subloans would correspond to a
fixed portion of an annual (or pluriannual) investment program prepared by
the municipalities with the assistance of the State (see para. 8.03 b)).
Complementary financing would be received by the municipality in the form
of transfers from the State. Where the municipality chose to do so, it
could participate with its own resources, adding to the volume of the
investment package, which would be appraised as a whole by SEPL, according
to the above mentioned criteria for financial, economic and technical
analysis.



-19-
Design and Supervision of Works
4.10      Design and construction drawings for community facilities would
be generally supplied by FAMEPAR on request by the municipalities. Plans
and drawings for infrastructure subprojects would be produced by the
municipalities themselves or by the utility corporations. Water supply
lines and drainage works or powerline connections would comply with
standards and specifications set by the utility companies, even when built
by the municipalities themselves to complement SANEPAR and COPEL programs.
In most cases, final drawings are readily available for prototype
solutions, which require only adaptation to specific subproject sites.
Definitive costing and supervision requirements can be reliably identified
and predicted on the basis of past implementation experience. The
appraisal mission had the opportunity to review both design standards and
levels of execution and found them satisfactory and congruent with local
techniques and available materials.
4.11      In general, subprojects are small and their execution simple.
The implementation can be carried out by Parana contractors and in most
cases by small firms already working in the subregion or municipality
concerned. Past experience confirms that the installed capacity of the
local construction industry is sufficient to execute the proposed
subprojects. Street paving is often executed through labor intensive
procedures, giving preference to cobblestone surfacing wherever the
corresponding materials and skills are available, but design and
implementation must meet official standards. Buildings are also
constructed with local materials and conventional techniques.
4.12      The competent sector agencies would carry out ex-ante review of
subprojects and their approval would be part of the supporting
documentation to be retained for field inspection by the Bank. Monitoring
of compliance with specifications and design standards would remain the
responsibility of the State (or Municipal) corporation in charge of
execution. The resident engineers of the SEPL regional offices would
verify the overall quality of the works and periodically report to Curitiba
on the progress of subprojects to authorize disbursements (see paras. 8.08
and 8.10 b)).
Procurement
4.13      Procurement of civil works, materials and equipment amounting to
$80.0 million (56% of project costs excluding technical assistance) would
be through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Individual sub-projects and feasible packages of sub-projects would be too
small to attract the interest of foreign bidders; they would however be
entitled to participate. Force account procedures (either through hired
labor or through the municipal corporations where they exist) would be used
by the municipalities to execute directly minor civil works to the maximum
extent of $34.0 million (24% of project costs excluding technical
assistance). Only purchased materials and equipment for force account work
would be eligible for reimbursement if procured under acceptable procedures
(eitherbidding or shopping). For contracts smaller than $10,000, local
shopping would be used, involving at least three price quotations from
open suppliers listings. This is expected to add up to no more than $28.5
million (20% of project costs excluding technical assistance). During



-20-
negotiations, the State of Parana gave assurances that it would package
civil works and purchases and adopt competitive bidding procedures to the
extent feasible.  Since bid packages would be too small and numerous for
ex-ante review by the Bank, such review would be delegated to SEPL, which
has the necessary expertise. The Bank would review procurement on an
ex-post basis by sampling, and if it were determined that procurement was
inconsistent with agreed procedures, no expenditures for such items would
be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, and the Bank would cancel the
corresponding amount of the loan (see para. 8.07 and Tables 6, 7 Annex 1).
Disbursement
4.14      The Bank would disburse against subprojects carried out by those
municipalities which has signed subloan agreements with BANESTADO, up to
the amount of the subloans on the following bases:  a)  50% of the cost of
civil works contracts; b) 35% of the cost of purchased materials, and
equipment (not including labor for force account works); and c) 35% of
technical assistance expenditures (see para. 8.14).
4.15      Because of the large number of contracts and relatively small
payments involved, all disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures. These would present expenditures by subproject with a
breakdown of outlays for equipment, materials, civil works under contract
or by force account. The State would maintain computerized records of
municipal expenditures on a bimonthly basis, which in conjunction with the
progress reports prepared by the Regional Offices, would be used by SEPL
for the preparation of consolidated statements of expenditures, which would
be transmitted to the Bank via the Central Bank of Brazil (see para. 8.15).
Special Account
4.16      In order to reduce the interval between the time payments were
made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, a Special
Account would be established in US$ dollars at the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of up to US$3.8 million, equivalent to 50% of the State
contribution during the first year of project implementation. Withdrawals
in Cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from
US$ dollars to Cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of payment by BANESTADO to the municipalities.  The Central Bank
would then forward the Statements of Expenditures to the Bank, which would
then replenish the Special Account.
Accounting and Auditing
4.17      Municipalities participating in the program would be assisted by
FAMEPAR personnel in the preparation of budgets and in their internal
execution and control. Entries are normally classified and coded according
to a uniform digital format, suitable for electronic processing and the
supporting documentation of expenditures is generally kept in good order.
The State Accounts Tribunal, a branch of the legislature, audits regularly
the expenditures of each municipality. SEPL would convey yearly audit
reports on project expenditures to the Bank, along with the opinion (and
comment as necessary) of a qualified independent auditor satisfactory to



-21-
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's
terms of reference would include comment on the methodology employed by
SEPL in the compilation of statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the
relevance of the supporting documents, the eligibility of expenditures for
financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and the standards of
record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The
Borrower would arrange for submission to the Bank of annual audit reports
of the Special Account by a satisfactory independent auditor within four
months of the close of the Central Bank fiscal year (see para. 8.09).
Disbursement Schedule
4.18      The rhythm of urban investment in Parana's municipalities will
fall somewhat during 1983. An election on November 15, 1982, brought about
changes in the State government, in the institutional framework for the
project, in the program's executive staff and in many municipal
administrations. While political support for the continuation and
intensification of the the Market Towns Improvement program continues to be
strong, both at the local and State level, the newly elected officials and
new staffs need some time to become fully cognizant of the investment plans
and priorities formulated by their predecessors. The previous
administration budgeted only the equivalent of US$4.5 million to be
disbursed by the State during the second half of 1983. The appraisal
mission considered this amount sufficient to ensure inception of the new
program during 1983, in view of additional resources provided under the
prospective Bank loan. However, conservative assumptions have been made
with regard to Bank disbursement. Commitment of subloans could be initiated
by SEPL and BANESTADO as early as July 1983, but it is assumed the proposed
Bank loan would become effective only by the end of August, 1983. Apart
from the payment of the front end fee (US$131,421) and the establishment of
the Special Account (US$3.8 million), no Bank disbursement against
certified expenditures is expected to take place before early 1984.
4.19      As shown in the loan disbursement schedule (Table 8, Annex 1),
the volume of Bank disbursements would grow rapidly during 1984, reaching a
peak in 1985 and tapering off during 1986 and 1987. December 31, 1987, is
the proposed closing date. The period of disbursement is only four years,
which is much shorter than the average historical profile of 8 to 9 years
for urban and other projects in Brazil. This accelerated disbursement
pattern is considered nonetheless realistic, in light of the positive
experience of implementation of the ongoing program in Parana, and the
demonstrated general efficiency of both State and Municipal
administrations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      SEPL would carry out systematic monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation (see para. 8.10 c) and Table 9, Annex 1). This
would have three main objectives: a) to assess the extent to which
subprojects achieved their objectives; b) to enable the municipalities and
SEPL to monitor progress towards meeting program targets and to take
corrective action where major deviations occurred; and c) to guide the
formulation of the yearly investment programs. By November 30 of each
year, SEPL would agree with the Bank the allocation of resources during the
subsequent year (see para. 8.01; LA 1.02 e)).



-22-
4.21      Key indicators concerning the allocation of investment resources
and the expected achievement of physical targets are presented in
Table 10, Annex 1. However, other elements of the investment program of
the municipalities would be individually monitored. A useful frame of
reference for evaluating progress achieved under the project is the set of
of municipality reports produced by FAMEPAR during 1982.8/ Suitable
indicators would be used for the monitoring and evaluation of the project
(see para 8.11). These are: a) subsectoral composition of expenditures;
b) town budgets; c) local cost recovery; d) municipal borrowing capacity;
e) urban property values; f) use of the facilities financed; and g)
welfare impact (see Project File, Annex F for details).
Environmental Impact
4.22      The project would have a diffused and positive impact on the
improvement and conservation of the physical environment. Implementation
of major hydroelectric works in Parana and the related ecological
controversies have heightened popular consciousness on conservation
issues. The project would include components with a direct bearing on the
enhancement of the rural environment such as the reclamation of valley
bottoms and flood-prone sites, small scale reforestation schemes, erosion
control works, rehabilitation of stone quarries, creation of tree nurseries
and vegetable gardens. Given the nature of surface soils in most of tie
State, the torrential rains and the incidence of strong winds, the major
reasons for the improvement of rural roads and river crossings are the need
to control marginal erosion of farmland and to make certain tracks passable
under all weather conditions. The environmental benefits of components
focussed on rehabilitation and enhancement of urban areas (street paving,
storm drainage, sanitation works, street furniture and landscaping) are
self evident. The standard of design and visual appearance of municipal
works implemented under the guidance of State agencies is generally
satisfactory.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Impact on State Finance
5.01      When expressed in current dollar equivalents, Parana State
budgets show an increase from US$1.3 billion in 1979 to US$1.8 billion in
1983 (see Tables 11 and 12, Annex 1). During this period of growth (9% per
year), the composition of the budgets varied remarkably little. Fiscal
receipts, consisting almost entirely of that portion of the value added tax
retained by the State, averaged 65% of total receipts. This municipal
contribution to State finances grew at about 7% per year. Federal
transfers (including the current share of a variety of federal taxes)
accounted for about 13% and an additional 14% came from borrowing
8/ These reports, of which 80 have already been completed, contain a
wealth of useful information on each municipality, including detailed
budgets for five years, records of economic establishments and
production, land use, infrastructure and public services endowment and
other data in a tabulated or mapped form.



-23-
operations. With regard to outlays, direct State investment has tended to
contract (from 13% to 8%), while intergovernmental transfers, of which the
Market Towns Program was a characteristic expression, grew from 22% to
35%. State borrowing was kept on the order of 13% - 14% (roughly in
proportion to the growth of government receipts) but total debt service
increased from 7% to 9%, due to the steep rise of interest rates on
external debt in recent years.
5.02       In Brazil, an analysis of State government budgets does not tell
the full story of local finances. But the overall picture does not change
substantially for Parana, when the so called "decentralized" budget is
alsoconsidered (i.e. the consolidated budget of the State corporations,
utility companies and foundations, through which much public investment
takes place). The latter shows a healthy 9% growth in direct receipts,
while corresponding federal support actually decreased after 1979.
Overall, State borrowing is expected to reach US$250 million in 1983,
federal transfers to rise to US$300 million and the aggregate budget to
amount to US$1,800 million, of which 69% would be generated internally.
5.03      During 1981 and 1982 the Municipal Improvement Program
represented a cost of US$21.5 and US$27.2 million to the State. These
amounts constituted about 7% of total State transfers during those years
and little more than 3% of the State's share of value added tax. After a
contraction to US$4.5 million in 1983 (see para. 4.18), the transfers
program is expected to climb back to US$27 million in 1984, and to grow to
US$41 million in 1985 which should not constitute an excessive burden on
the budget, assuming a reasonable growth in the total resources available
to the State. In addition, the new project would require debt service on
the Bank loan, which at the end of the grace period (1987) would amount to
about US$9 million per year.  This compares to a current level of total
debt service payments by the State of US$138 million for 1983.   Parana
should be able to meet the additional obligation without difficulty,
particularly since it would be partially offset by municipal repayments of
the subloans. Nonetheless, in 1984 and 1985, the Market Towns Improvement
project would represent a noticeable item among intergovernmental transfers
(on the order of 5-7%).
5.04       The proposed project, introducing a 35% credit component, would
represent a positive first step in this direction towards reducing the
grant component of the program. Looking beyond the period of project
implementation, when the issue of replicating the program for another 3 - 4
years would arise, the State may want to direct grants only to the most
needy municipalities and to emphasize the credit component for others. The
State may also wish to consider an adjustment in interest rates to reduce
the transfer element.
Financial Situation of Parana's Municipalities
5.05       To understand the relative financial condition of target
municipalities the budgets of fifty-two towns for the period 1980-1982 were
examined (see para. 1.12).  The generalized structure of expenditures and
receipts of municipalities obtained from this sample is presented in Table
16, Annex 1, stratified according to town size. As can be seen, the
contribution of the value added tax (ICM) to local revenues increases with
the size of towns in an almost linear progression, from 25% to 45%.



-24-
Similarly, the contribution of local taxes (real estate, urban services and
betterment charges) also increases with town size. These receipts cover
73% of current expenditures overall, ranging from only 45% in the smallest
municipalities to almost 100% in the largest ones. Transfer receipts
(other than ICM) more than offset the lower local receipts and, as a
result, there is not much variation in per capita receipts or current
expenditures (see Table 18, Annex 1). The contribution of the real estate
tax (IPTU) becomes significant (about 4%) in those towns which have
introduced it under the CIATA program (see paras. 2.12 and 5.11).
5.06      An analysis of the evolution of municipal budgets over a
longer period was made for a smaller sample of 32 towns for which 1977-1981
records could be obtained (see Table 19, Annex 1). When the values of a
few critical items are expressed in current dollars, the following
conclusions emerge: a) local receipts and ICM have grown faster in larger
towns (up to 12% per year), due particularly to betterment charges, while
smaller towns have benefitted mostly from the growth of Federal transfers;
b) State transfers, in general, have lagged behind; c) capital
expenditures do not show a consistent pattern over the four year period
and, in general, have remained at about the same volume; d) debt service
accounts for a small and declining proportion of outlays because of the
scarcity of new borrowing opportunities.
Municipal Borrowing Capacity
5.07      In Brazil, borrowing operations by States and Municipalities are
subject to three principal limits, which were established in Federal
Resolution No.62 of October, 1975. Exceptions are classified as
"extra-limit" and must be submitted to the Federal Senate via the Central
Bank for approval. For example, BNH and FNDU loans have been excepted.
The three conditions that a municipality must meet to contract a loan are:
a)   the cumulative debt outstanding in any given year shall not
exceed 70% of the borrower's total revenues in the previous
fiscal year (adjusted for inflation and including transfers);
b)   the amount of debt contracted in any year shall not exceed 20% of
the total revenues of that year; and
c)   the debt service (interest plus amortization) in any year shall
not exceed 15% of the total revenues of the previous year.
5.08      The above tests set reasonable limits to the level of
indebtedness allowed to a municipality.  The appraisal mission applied
these tests to an 18% stratified sample of municipalities, which
constituted a good representation of size categories and different areas of
Parana (see Table 20, Annex 1). The majority of municipalities covered by
this analysis passed the tests. A less intensive review of 32 other towns
revealed a consistent pattern. This is explained by the low level or
non-existence of indebtedness in the smaller municipalities, reflecting the
lack of medium or long term credit. The finding supported assertions by
BANESTADO and State officials that sufficient capacity exists to ensure the
absorption and repayment of sublopas.



-25-
5.09      In the course of project implementation, more comprehensive
knowledge of local expenditures and revenues would be acquired by SEPL,
through the monitoring of municipal budgets.  SEPL, would carry out a study
on the more appropriate indicators for measuring the efficiency of
individual municipalities and their fiscal and financial performances over
time (see para. 8.10 e)). This study, which would be completed during the
first semester of implementation, would help structure the process of
financial monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project. Conclusions
derived from this process would be important in view of the replication of
the market towns improvement program after 1987, when a more selective
approach may become desirable. Creditworthiness indicators should reveal a
minimum standard of efficiency (increasing from smaller to larger towns)
for access to transfer funds, and a higher one for loans. Municipalities
which did not meet the tests would have to be reviewed on a case-by-case
basis, and be required to meet additional criteria, such as joining CIATA,
or having more than 70% of the population below the poverty income
threshold.
Municipal Cost Recovery
5.10      Currently, the proportion of investment costs recovered by the
municipalities varies with the nature of subprojects, the size of towns and
the relative economic conditions of their residents. Many subprojects are
of a kind which cannot be directly charged to beneficiaries. This is the
case of educational, medical and similar facilities and technical
assistance services, which, taken together, would amount to 28% of total
project expenditures. Past cost recovery experience is satisfactory for
infrastructure and equipment components, which represent the main share
(72%) of the proposed investment plan. Cost recovery takes place in three
ways: (i) through one time betterment charges to the beneficiaries of
street related improvements (which may recover up to 100% of capital costs
within one or two years after the works are finished); (ii) through
periodic user charges for services or utilities provided (which cover
current expenditures plus a portion of capital outlays); and (iii) through
incremental real estate taxes (IPTU - 1% per year on the assessed value of
land and 0.5% per year on buildings).  Under the Brazilian definition of an
"urban" perimeter, at least two public services or utilities must be
provided by the municipality. Provision of community facilities permits
extension of the perimeter and introduction of the IPTU tax.
5.11      Direct charges on street related improvements, levied on owners
of abutting properties, generally include capital outlays, financing costs
and labor. Labor costs (about 30% of total costs) are not however charged
in smaller towns (below 5,000 inhabitants), where improvements of this type
are generally carried out by force account or voluntary participation.
Past experience indicates that, on average, no more than 1/3 of total costs
are recovered in towns of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 3/4 in towns of
5,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, and nearly 100% in larger towns. Overall, it
is expected that 75% of chargeable project costs (51% of total costs) would
be recovered within a few years by municipalities. The remainder would be
recovered indirectly and over time through user charges and real estate
taxation. The latter has so far been introduced in about half of Parana's
municipalities and its beneficial impact on local revenues is already



-26-
visible in the corresponding municipal budgets (see Table 19, Annex 1). As
the coverage of the CIATA program would be progressively extended, recovery
of investment costs would improve because more urbanized areas would be
brought under taxation and assessments would be kept up to date. The
schedule of new CIATA programs during the project implementation period
would be presented to the Bank together with the plan for technical
assistance (see para. 8.10).
5.12      Part of the justification for a Bank loan rests on the repayment
of subloans by the  municipalities.  Since this obligation would entail
diminished shares of tax returns (debt service being deduced from the ICM
contribution) it would induce increased fiscal efforts at the local level
(such as betterment and service charges, real estate reassessment or value
added increments produced by new establishments. In this respect the urban
investments financed, the fiscal recovery of capital outlays and the
promotion of new taxable enterprises within the community are clearly
interlinked. As a condition for participating in the project,
municipalities would be required to adopt a plan, satisfactory to SEPL,
BANESTADO and the Bank, to improve collection of direct fiscal revenues and
a schedule for its implementation (see paras. 8.03 c) and 8.10 c)).
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
General Approach_
6.01      The economic impact of public investments in market towns
between 1977 and 1982 was assessed by: (a) analysis of published
information and (b) field surveys and interviews in about two dozen
municipalities of varying sizes.  This analysis (which thus reached back to
a period before the inception of the Market Towns Improvement program),
permitted also evaluation of the interplay between urban service
improvements and the establishment and growth of productive activities in
the municipalities involved. The effects of urban investments carried out
since 1977, are a combination of social and welfare improvements,
efficiency and productivity gains and the promotion of comparative
advantages. Social improvements are viewed as pre-conditions to productive
investment, in that they help establish a marketing image for the town, and
thus help attract profitable businesses and retain successful farmers. In
this context the conventional dichotomy between social overhead capital and
directly productive investment becomes rather blurred.
6.02      Annex E of the Project File presents five typical interviews with
local administrators, and their perceptions of the benefits derived from
the SEDM program. Several themes were consistently highlighted:
a)   the importance of urban investment for strengthening the local
revenue base, collecting betterment and service charges,
and introducing taxation on real property;
b)   the need for expanding local receipts vis-a-vis ever rising
current expenditures such as teachers salaries and rural road
maintenance;
c)   the favorable impact of public improvements in bringing about



-27-
better living conditions and strengthening the market image of
the town;
d)   the role of education and recreation investments for reducing
outmigration and social tensions, sustaining the growth of retail
trade and services, and motivating private investments in farming
and marketing activities;
e)   the awareness of the economic and financial situation of their
constituencies, accompanied by a creative, entrepreneurial
approach to town management; and
f)   the drive towards achieving a reputation of a fast modernizing
and well managed town, with distinctive comparative advantages,
competing with alternative locations and attracting private
capital into new commercial, service and industrial
establishments;
6.03      The most significant benefit of the project is expected to be an
increase in regional productivity. Properly planned upgrading of the level
of public services in the market towns (access, water supply, sanitation,
health, rural education and recreational facilities) should in many cases
lead to growth of productive activities and hence of taxable income. The
improvement and modernization of the urban fabric would induce cost savings
in the operation and maintenance of public services and in the
establishment of private enterprises in the serviced areas. However, it
has not been possible to quantify these savings reliably.
6.04      Other savings would derive to firms and households from a more
dependable local supply of goods and services, faster and cheaper delivery
of commodities, reduced losses of perishable goods, and fewer working days
foregone because of inadequate health and sanitation conditions. Permanent
benefits would also include the more effective utilization of local labor,
the generation of some additional employment and on the job training.
Sample Rates of Return
6.05      Aggregate measurement of these benefits, given the nature and
great number of subprojects, presents considerable operational
difficulties. It would not be reasonable to calculate a separate rate of
return for each subproject. Rates of return were therefore calculated for
selected towns in each size category on a representative sample of those
subprojects which produce quantifiable benefits (corresponding to 65% of
proposed project costs). Benefits of facilities with a predominantly
social function (e.g. childcare, education, recreation, and health
facilities) are less suitable for conventional economic measurements.
6.06      The economic analysis included all urban infrastructure
investments such as street paving and street furniture, storm drainage,
water, electricity and sewerage. Economic rates of return were computed
for given investment packages, using actual costs and benefits of
subprojects in the chosen towns. The overall rate of return on these
components was 26%.



-28-
6.07      The approach was to compare sets of street-related investments
made during the past few years (paving, sidewalks, drainage, public
lighting, etc.) with recorded increments in imputed rental values of
adjoining properties.  Price differentials were calculated f)r lots with
comparable setting but unequal services endowment (usually u- different
sides of the same town block). The analysis was based on the detailed
cadastral records available for 120 CIATA towns which have relatively
uniform building and subdivision layouts (see list and location ma- in
Project File, Annex E). In the smallest towns (those with less than 2,500
inhabitants), assessed fiscal values were used, even though they tended to
be about 30% lower than actual commercial values. In larger towns, where
fiscal values lag considerably below market prices, estimates of commercial
values were drawn from fiscal records and information gathered in the
field.
6.08      Benefits and costs, excluding taxes and transfers, were expressed
in constant 1982 prices.  Implementation was assumed to last an average of
nine months, based on past experience. Average project life was set at 30
years with no salvage values. The maintenance cost for paving was assumed
to be 4% from the third year onwards, with a 50% lump sum in the sixth
year. An average of 4% of capital costs was used for maintenance costs of
sidewalks and street furniture, starting in the second year and 3% for
other investments. No adjustment was made to the investment costs to
account for the unskilled labor component, in light of the relative
scarcity and mobility of manpower in Parana. The foreign exchange
component, estimated at 35%, was shadow-priced aL 1.2, the shadow exchange
rate currently used for Bank financed projects in Brazil.
6.09      The internal rate of return for paving subprojects was 24% in
towns of A and B rank (those having less than 2,500 inhabitants and between
2,500 and 5,000 inhabitants respectively) assuming 8 m wide roads and
polygonal tile pavement in the former towns and wider carriageways (12m)
with curbs and 4 m of sidewalks in the latter. Separate rates of return
for pure pavement works were not calculated for larger centers because such
paving subprojects would usually be associated with other components.
Instead, rates of return were computed for "packages" of urban
investments.  These varied with town size, increasing from 18% to 27%.
Packages in the larger towns included increasing standards and geometric
characteristics, and more sophisticated street furnishings. Combined
provision of water and electricity connections with paving subprojects was
considered for towns of A and B rank, while in towns of the C, D and E rank
(5,000 to 50,000 inhabitants) the sets of investments comprised two 8 m
carriageways, curbs and 4 m of sidewalks, with street furniture, storm
drainage and street lighting. In addition, sewerage was included in
investment packages in the larger D and E towns (above 10,000 inhabitants),
where drinking water pipes already exist. To ensure marginal benefits
would not be overestimated in those municipalities which have already
achieved substantial coverage of public services in the central areas, the
calculation of benefits accruing to an improved, standard 10,000 m2 block,
were based on a lower number of individual properties, to reflect suburban
densities.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.10      A sensitivity analysis was conducted to verify to what extent the
rates of return would be affected by possible increases in project costs.



-29-
Table 3 below shows that even with cost overruns on the order of 20%, the
returns of the project would not be jeopardized. No "lower benefits"
scenario was included because the assumptions made with regard to project
benefits were considered sufficiently conservative.
Table 3: SENSITIVITY TESTS
Street Paving             Urban Infrastructure
Town          Components                     Packages
Size   IERR      Cost Increases       IERR    Cost Increases
+10%       +20%               +10%    +20%
A     24        21         18        18       15       13
B     24        21         18        23       20       18
C    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       26       22       19
D    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       27       24       22
E    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       27       24       22
Note:  Rates on street paving alone are not applicable in the larger towns.
VII. PROJECT RISKS AND PROPOSED REMEDIES
7.01       The project would represent the evolution of a successful program
which has already reached full momentum. Unusually low risks are therefore
associated with its implementation and management. As a result of the
recent election, some of the executive staff has changed at both State and
municipal levels, but political support for continuing the program has been
reconfirmed by the new administration and by Federal authorities.  It is
expected that most of the professional staff in the regional offices will
remain on the job, ensuring continuity.
7.02       The project introduces several new criteria for the subregional
distribution of transfer funds and for the selection of subprojects. While
a certain latitude will remain in both respects after the experience of the
first year, these guidelines should be kept in focus throughout the
implementation period. The emphasis on selecting the best subprojects and
allocating resources consistent with the growth trends of different
subregions should be maintained.
7.03      A feature of the project is the introduction of subloans  to
complement the conventional pattern of intergovernmental transfers.
Municipalities would borrow additional funds to the extent permitted by
their financial positions and their capacity to service debt. Analysis
confirms the Government's view that sufficient interest and capacity exist
among Parana's municipalities to absorb the resources which would be made
available over the next 3-4 years.  There appears to be little risk
associated with the demand for subloans on the proposed terms and
conditions, given the dearth of alternative sources of medium term
financing for municipal improvements.
7.04       The customary formula used by BANESTADO for securing subloan
repayment through withholding of value added tax proceeds to the
municipalities, provides the most secure form of collateral guarantee.



-30-
This would exclude the occurrence of bad debt, except under catastrophic
macroeconomic circumstances. The financial intermediary is in a position
not only to assess the ability of a municipality to meet debt service at
the moment of signing a subloan agreement, but also to monitor and limit
the possibility of suborrowers contracting excessive additional
commitments.
7.05      Cost estimates have been made conservatively, bearing in mind the
rapid pace of inflation in Brazil. The possibility of cost overruns and
heavier local financial commitments than originally anticipated cannot be
ruled out, but would be cushioned by the fragmented nature of the
subprojects, which are small and have an unusually brief span of
implementation. The fact that programs and fund allocations would be
revised at the beginning of each fiscal year, confers an unusual degree of
elasticity to this project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS9/
Agreements Reached during Loan Negotiations
8.01      The State would make available the required project funds,
facilities, services and other resources to implement the agreed 1983-87
investment program. The State would agree with the Bank on the annual
allocation of counterpart funds to each Municipality (paras. 4.01; PA
2.01(b). Any major changes in municipal investment plans or in the
overall State Municipal Improvement Program would be subject to approval of
the Bank.   (Para. 4.20; PA 2.01(d)(iv) and (v); PA 2.06 (a) and (b)).
Subloans should be committed to Municipalities within three years of loan
signature (para. 4.01; LA 2.02(b)(iii)).
8.02      Agreement on the essential provisions of the Manual of Lending
Policies and Procedures. The State would not abrogate or change the Manual
without prior approval of the Bank. (para. 4.04; LA 1.02(j); PA 2.03).
8.03      Eligibility criteria for a Municipality to receive project funds
(para. 4.04; PA Schedule 2):
a)   an urban population of the main center of less than 50,000
residents according to the 1980 Population Census records
(exclusions) (para. 4.06; PA Sch.2(a));
b)   the presentation of an annual or pluriannual investment program
satisfactory to SEPL, BANESTADO and the Bank (para. 4.09;
PA Sch.2(b));
c)   the presentation of a plan, satisfactory to SEPL, BANESTADO and
the Bank, to improve collection of direct fiscal revenues
(particularly betterment and service charges and real estate
taxes) and of a schedule for its implementation (para. 5.13;
PA Sch.2(d));
8.04      Eligibility criteria for a Municipality to receive project
subloans (para. 4.08; PA Schedule 2):
9/ LA + Draft Loan Agreement; PA = Draft Project Agreement.



-31-
a)   the capacity to absorb subloans and to service the corresponding
debt within the borrowing limits set by Federal Resolution No.62
as ascertained by BANESTADO (para. 5.07; PA Sch.l B(2) and
PA Sch.2(c).
b)   the execution of an on-lending agreement with BANESTADO,
including authorization to retain a share of value added tax
(ICM) transfers for debt service payment (para. 3.15;
PA Sch.1, B(l) and C(2)).
8.05      Allocation of counterpart funds to municipalities to follow
criteria of urban population size and growth trends according to procedures
specified in the Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures (paras. 3.02,
3.08, 4.04, 4.06; PA 2.01(b)(iii); PA 2.03).
8.06      All subprojects to meet criteria specified in the Manual of
Lending Policies and Procedures. These would be: a) impact; b) technical;
c) target group; and d) economic-financial (para. 4.07; PA 2.01(d)(iii).
8.07      Procurement of civil works, goods and services by borrowing
municipalities to follow locally advertised competitive bidding,
comparative shopping and force account procedures acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.13; LA 2.02(c); PA 2.02(a) and (b); PA 2.06(iii); PA Sch.l.C(8)).
8.08      SEPL would ensure efficient project supervision to be carried
out through adequately staffed regional offices (para. 4.12; PA 2.05(a)(i)
and (ii)). Periodic progress supervision reports would be prepared and
delivered to the Bank (para. 4.12, PA 2.05(a)(iii) and (b); PA 2.06
(iii)).
8.09      Maintenance of satisfactory records of project accounts and
external audits of project and special accounts (para. 4.17; LA 4.02(a);
PA 3.01; PA 3.02)).
8.10      Presentation for Bank approval of a plan of operation and
schedule of implementation of the SEPL/FAMEPAR and CIATA technical
programs assistance to municipalities within the first semester of project
effectiveness (paras. 3.12, 4.20, 5.12; PA 2.04(a) and (b)):
a)   assist in the design and preparation of yearly municipal
investment plans (paras. 3.12, 4.09; PA 2.01(d)(ii);
PA 2.04(b)(i) and (ii));
b)   supervise subproject implementation and expenditures;
through a network of regional offices (para. 4.12;
PA 2.05(a)(ii));
c)   evaluate subproject impact and the extent of cost recovery at
municipal, subregional and State levels (paras. 4.20, 5.12;
PA 2.04(b)(iv); PA 2.04(c));
d)   promote real estate assessment in coordination with the
CIATA program (para. 5.12; PA 2.04(b)(iii)); and



-32-
e)   before December 31, 1983 submit to the Bank for review
appropriate indicators of financial efficiency to monitor
municipal budgetary performance over time (Para. 5.09; PA 2.04(b)
and (c)).
8.11      Indicators for monitoring and evaluation of project impact by
SEPL/FAMEPAR to include: (a) allocation of funds; (b) physical
implementation targets; (c) expenditures by subsector; (d) town budgets;
(e) local cost recovery; (f) municipal borrowing capacity, (g) urban
property values; (h) use of facilities; (i) target group impact (paras.
3.08, 4.21, 5.09; PA 2.04(c)).
8.12      Borrower to relend the proceeds of the loan to the State on the
same terms and conditions as in the Bank Loan (para. 3.13;
LA 3.02(a)(ii)).
8.13      BANESTADO to make subloans to Municipalities at following terms
and conditions (para. 3.15; PA Sch.1, B(1)): a) ten years maturity and a
grace period of no more than three years; b) interst rate on subloans would
be consistent with those applied on BNH infrastructure loans to larger
cities in Parana; c) indexation of principal of subloans and provisions
for monetary correction; d) monthly debt service payments to be retained
by BANESTADO from value added tax transfers to a borrowing municipality.
8.14      Establishment of a Special Account in dollars at the Central Bank
of Brazil, to be replenished through withdrawals from the Loan Account at
the request of the Borrower, pari-passu with project expenditures,
according to the agreed percentages of Bank disbursements (para. 4.14;
LA 2.03(a); LA 2.03(b)(i));
8.15      SEPL to prepare consolidated Statements of Expenditures on the
basis of State Account Tribunal records of municipal outlays and work
progress reports of its regional offices which would be forwarded to the
Bank via the Central Bank (paras. 4.15, 4.16; LA 2.03(c); PA 3.01(b).
8.16      Agreements Concerning the Obligations of the Municipalities
a)   prepare and deliver to SEPL the required subproject documentation
(PA Sch.l, C(4) and (5));
b)   revise the investment program from year to year;
c)   comply with subproject selection criteria set forth in Loan
Agreement Schedule (PA Sch.l,C(7));
d)   carry out agreed investment programs (PA Sch.l, A(1));
e)   arrange for adequate insurances coverage (PA Sch.1, C(3)(a));
f)   make appropriate use of goods and services being financed
PA Sch.1, C(3)(b));
g)   authorize SEPL and Bank personnel to visit works or municipal
offices (PA Sch.1, C(4)(b));



-33-
h)   prepare progress and completion reports (PA Sch.1, C(5) and (6));
i)   maintain satisfactory records on project expenditures (PA Sch.l,
C(4)(a));
j)   on request, submit such records to SEPL and Bank staff and to
independent auditors (PA Sch.l C(4)(b));
k)   carry out agreed staffing and institutional development program
recommended by SEPL/FAMEPAR, including a program for incremental
cost recovery (PA Sch.l, A(l));
1)   execute agreed fiscal collection plans aimed at financial
strengthening of the Municipality and recovery of capital
improvement costs (PA Sch.2(d)); and
m)   adequately staff, operate and maintain the facilities once built
(PA Sch.1, C(10)).
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.17      Conclusion of formal arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Federative Republic of Brazil, the State of Parana and
BANESTADO (para. 4.01; LA 3.02(a) and 6.01(c)).
8.18      Registration of the Loan Agreement with Banco Central do Brazil
(LA 6.01(a).
8.19      Fulfillment of all necessary governmental actions for the
execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the State
(LA 6.01(b)).
Recommendation:
8.20      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$52.7 million to the Federative Republic of Brazil for
fifteen years, including three years of grace.



-34-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Accompanying Tables
Table 1:  Location and Distribution of Project Personnel
Table 2:  Type and Unit Costs of Completed Subprojects 1981-82
Table 3:  Project Costs by Component
Table 4:  Detailed Project Costs by Component
Table 5:  Investment Schedule by Major Component
Table 6:  Indicative Procurement Distribution
Table 7:  Summary of Expenditures by Procurement Procedure and Proposed
Loan Disbursement.
Table 8:  Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 9:  Implementation Monitoring Schedule
Table 10: Physical Progress Indicators
Table 11: Parana State Budgets 1979-1983
Table 12: Consolidated State Budgets by Sector and Type of
Expenditures
Table 13: Population and Income Projections
Table 14: Proposed Allocation of the State Funds
Table 15: Illustrative Distribution of Loan Funds
Table 16: Percentual Budget Structure of 52 Municipalities
Table 17: 1980 Budgets of 32 Sample Towns
Table 18: 1980 Per Capita and Per Town Weight of Key Budget Items
Table 19: 1977-1981 Budged Evolution of 32 Sample of 50 Towns
Table 20: Analysis of Debt Capacity of a Sample of 50 Towns



-35-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Location and Distribution of Project Personnel (1982)
Curitiba Office        Regional Offices               Total
Profes-                Profes-                  Profes-
sionals      Total    sionals        Total      sionals    Total
SEPL           15           32         --           --         15          32
FAMEPAR        49          105         10           10          59        115
COHAPAR        45          140         20           59          65        199
EMOPAR         17          104         22           42          39        146
126         381         52          111         185         492
Regional Offices and No. of Municipalities Served
(1982)
0      '~22't2 
2                       287            12 
14 Reioa  O fices   287Served Muicpaite



BRAZIL: PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMEhT PRDJECT
Table 2: Type and Unit Costs of Completed Subprojects During the 1981, 1982 SEDM Progranm
US$1.00 equal to CR$90.95 (June 1981) and CR$172.23 (June 1982) at mid year excha  e rates
1981 Pro -am                                  1982 Program                           1981 - 1982
$         % of    Twns$                                % of    Towns                        $       Zof
Subprojects             Quantity    Thloaand        Total   Served    Quantity    Thousand   Total   Served   Quantity            Thousand   Total        Unit Cost
Street Paving            1,028,000    6,564         30.6       147      1,602,000    8,124       29.9       268    2,630,000       14,688    30.2   $5.60 x m2 - 36,500 x town
Sidewalks                   85,043       461         2.1        34         20,000       124        .5         8       105,043         585      1.2   $5.60 x m2 =13,900 x town
Town Squares                   136    2,542         11.8       127            101    1,726        6.3        99           237       4,268      8.8   $21,300 x town - 18,000 x squar
Street Lighting              -         1,913         8.9       122          -         3,017      11.1       111         -           4,930    10.1   $21,150 x town
Street furniture             -           250         1.2        29          -         1,071       3.9        47         -           1,321      2.7   $17,400 x town
Sewerage                    38,000       172          .8        15         53,000       158        .6        12        91,000         330        .7   $3.60 x il - $12,200 x town
Water connections           72,000       501         2.3        30         51,700       451       1.7        27       123,700         952      2.0   $7.70 x ml - $16,700 x town
Sundry Waterworks               13       165           .8       13             15       182        .7        15            28         347        .7   $12,400 x town
Power Connections           63,0X)       722         3.4        28        115,000    1,114        4.1        35       178,000       1,836      3.8   $10.30 x ml - $29,100 x town
Rural Electrification       99,000       445         2.1         7        150,000       780       2.9         8       249,000       1,225      2.5   $4.90 x ml - $81,700 x town
Rural Road Maintenance   149,000         237         1.1        16         50,000       131         .5        9       199,000         368        .8   $1,850 x km - $14,700 x town
Bridges & crossings             22       336         1.6        29             24       372       1.4        24            53         708      1.4   $13,400 x bridge
Other Works                  -           -           -          -            -          909       3.3        -           -            909      1.9   not applicable
INFRASTRUCTURE               -        14,308        66.7       271           -       18,159      66.9       271.                   32,467    66.8   $119,800 x town
Rural Schools                   10       451         2.1        10             12       563       2.1        12            22       1,014      2.1   $46,100 x school
School Extensions                4       324         1.5         4              1        70        .3         1             5         394       .8   $78,800 x extension
Health Posts                      8      102           .5        8             21       128        .5        21            29         230       .5   $7,900 x health post
Hospital Improvements            5       190          .9         5             17       353       1.3        17            22         543      1.1   $24,700 x hospital improved
Kindergartens                     6      245         1.1         6             41       529       1.9        41            47         774      1.6   $16,500 x kindergarten
Social Centers                   9       548         2.6         9              9       385       1.4         9            18         933      1.9   $51,800 x social center
Gymnasia                        27    2,325         10.8        27             45    3,408       12.5        45            72       5,733    11.8   $79,600 x gymnasium
Stadium Improvements            25       374         1.7        25             12       182        .7        12            37         556      1.1   $15,000 x stadium improved
Sportgrounds                    58       952         4.4        48            11B    2,142        7.8       103           176       3,094      6.4   $17,600 x sportgrcund
Bus Terminals                    5       132          .6         5              9       252        .9         9            14         384       .8   $27,400 x bus tenrinal
Other Buildings                 14       617         2.9        14             29       859       3.1        29            43       1.476      3.0   $34,300 x building
CDM4JNTTY FACILTI'TES       -          6,260        29.2       271                    8,871      32.5       271                    15,131    31.1   $55,800 x town
EQlUPMENT & VEIICLES            22       888         4.1        22                                -          -             22         888      1.8   $40,400 x town
EMERGENCY RELlEF             _                                                _         154        .6         3             3         154       .3   $51,300 x town
TCTIAL                       _        21,456       100.0       271           -       27,184    100.0        271                    48,640   100.0   $179,400 x town in 2 years



-37-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TCJNS DMPROVEMENT PRDJECr
Table 3: Project Costs by Conponent
(in US$ thousands of June 1983)
Percent of
Project Components                   Local          Foreign      Total       Base Costs
A. INFRASTRICTURE
Street Paving & Sidewalks        20,551         11,066       31,617         26.5%
Town Squares Improvements         4,847          2,609        7,456          6.2%
Bridges a-ad crossings            1,552             836       2,388          2.0%
Electrification                   6,593           3,550      10,143          8.5%
Traffic signs                       387            209          596          0.5%
Drinking water                    2,714           1,462       4,176          3.5%
Sewerage                          1,938          1,043        2,981          2.5%
Street furniture                    387            209          596          0.5%
Rural roads rehabilation          6,593          3,550       10,143          8,5%
Valley bottoms reclamation          581            312          893          0.8%
Site works                        1,552            836        2,388          2./0%
Other works                       2.326          1,252        3,578          3.0%
Other Infrastructure                387            209          596          0.5%
Subtotal A                     50,408         27,143       77,551         65.0%
B. COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Kindergartens                     2,714          1,462        4,176          3.5%
Gymnasia                          6,204          3,340        9,544          8.0%
Sport grounds                     2,714          1,462        4,176          3.5%
Social centers                    1,938          1,043        2,981          2.5%
Health centers                    2,714          1,462        4,176          3.5%
Other public buildings            1,553            835        2,388          2.0%
Subtotal B                     17,837          9,604      27,441          23.0/
C. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES             5,430          2,924        8,353          7.0%
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               3,877          2,088        5,%5           5.0%
BASE COST                            77,552         41,758      119,310        100.0%
Physical increase                 7,755          4,176       11,931         10.ci0%
Price escalation                 12,193          6,566       18,759         15.7%
Subtotal Contingencies         19,948         10,742       30,690         25.7%
TOTAL PROJECT COTS                  97,500         52,500      150,000        125.7%
Front-end fee of Bank loan             -                200         200          0.3%
TC7IL FINANCTN  REQWIRED             97,500         52,700       150,200       126.0%



-38-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Detailed Project Costs and Contingencies Calculations
(in US$ thousands of June 1983)
Base              Contingencies            Total
Project Components                     Costs          Physical      Price         Costs
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
Street Paving                     31,617         3,162          4,971         39,750
Town Squares Improvement           7,456            746         1,172          9,374
Bridges and crossings              2,388            239           375          3,002
Electrification                   10,143          1,014         1,595         12,752
Traffic signs                         596            60            93            749
Drinking water                     4,176            418           657          5,251
Sewerage                           2,981            298           469          3,748
Street furniture                     596             59            94            749
Rural roads Rehabilation          10,143          1,014         1,595         12,752
Valley bottoms reclamation            893            89           141          1,123
Site works                         2,388            239           375          3,002
Other works                        4,174            417           657          5,248
Subtotal A                      77,551         7,755        12,194         97,500
B. COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Kindergartens                      4,176            418           656          5,250
Gymnasia                           9,544            954         1,502         12,000
Sport grounds                      4,176            418           656          5,250
Social centers                     2,981            298           469          3,748
Health centers                     4,176            418           656          5,250
Other public buildings             2,388            238           376          3,002
Subtotal B                      27,441         2,744         4,315         34,500
C.  EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES              8,353           836         1,312         10,501
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                5,965           596           938          7,499
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   119,310        11,931        18,759        150,000



-39-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL                             Page 5 of 20
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVMEhT PROJECT
Table 5: Investmnnt Schedule by Major Component
(in US$ thousand of June 1983)
Mayor Component                      Total         1983         1984          1985         1986
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
Base Costs A                    77,551         4,017        23,022       32,596       17,916
Physical Increase              7,755           401         2,302        3,260        1,792
Price Escalation              12,194            94         2,129        5,507        4,464
Contingencies on A          19,949           495         4,431        8,767        6,256
Subtotal A                  97,500         4,512        27,453       41,363      24,172
B. OOMMUNITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Base Costs B                    27,441         1,422         8,146       11,534        6,339
Physical Increase              2,744           142           815        1,153          634
Price Escalation               4,315            32           754        1,949        1,580
Contingencies on B           7,059           174         1,569        3,102        2,214
Subtotal B                  34,500         1,596         9,715       14,636       8,553
C. EQUIEENT AND VEHICLES
Base Costs C                     8.353           434         2,479        3,511        1,929
Physical Increase                836            44           247          351          194
Price Escalation               1,312            10           230          593          479
Contingencies on C           2,148            54           477          944          673
Subtotal C                  10,501           488         2,956        4,455        2,602
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Base Costs D                     5,965           310         1,770        2,507        1,378
Physical Increase                596            30           177          251          138
Price Escalation                 938             7           164          424          343
Contingencies on D           1,534            37           341          675          481
Subtotal D                   7,499           347         2,111        3,182        1,859
TOTAL PRCJECr ODST
Base Costs A + B + C + D       119,310         6,183        35,417       50,148      27,562
Physical Increases            11,931           617         3,541        5,015        2,758
Price Escalation              18,759           143         3,277        8,473       6,866
Contingencies (unallocated) 30,690           760         6,818       13,488        9,624
TOTAL COST A + B + C + D            150,000        6,943        42,235        63,636      37,186



-40-
ANE 1
BRAZIL                              Page 6 of 20
PARANA MARKET TOWNS P4PRovEENT PROJECr
Table 6: Indicative Procurement Distribution
(in US$ thousands)
Project          LCB Contracts        Force Acct./a   Shopping
Subproject Type
$ Anmunt       No. of      $ Amount       $ Anmont      $ Amount
Goods &
Civil Works                  Materials
Street Paving                 39,750          (360)       16,500       (18,000)         5,250
Town Squares                   9,375          (160)        3,575       ( 4,750)         1,050
Rural Roads                   12,750          (320)        6,070        ( 4,650)        2,030
Electrification               12,750          ( 90)        9,250          -             3,500
Drinking Water                 5,250          (160)        3,500           _            1,750
Sewerage                       3,750          (200)        3,080          -               670
Other Works/b                 13,875           n.s.        6,795       ( 4,900)         2,210
A. INFRASTRUCTURE             97,500        (1,290)       48,740        (32,300)       16,460
Kindergartens                  5,250          (260)        5,250          -
Gymnasia                      12,000          (120)       12,000          -               _
Sportgrounds                   5,250          (110)        2,500       ( 1,700)         1,050
Social Centers                 3,750          ( 60)        3,750          -               _
Health Centers                 5,250          (210)        5,250           _
Other Buildings                3,000           n.s.       22,510          -               490
B. CCMMDNITY FACILITIES       34,500          (760)       31,260       ( 1,700)         1,540
Vehicles and Equipment
Road Equipmerit                2,750            70           -            -            2,750
School Buses                   2,550            65           -            -            2,550
Other Equipment                5,250           135           -            -             5,250
C.  VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT      10,550           270           -            -            10,550
TOTAL A + B + C /c           142,500          2,320       80,000       (34,000)        28,550
Percentages                    100%                         56%           24%            20%
a/ Dollar anount exclude value of purchased materials given in side column.
b/ Includes: bridges, traffic signs, street furniture, reclamation works, siteworks, and
others.
c/ Excludes $7.5 million Technical Assistance expenditures.



BRAZIL
PARANA MAREr W4NS IMPOFIMa     PRDJECT
Table 7: Suimnry of Expenditures by Procurement Procedure and Proposed Loan Disbursenent
Conpetitive      Force Account                                 Contracts
Method of           Bidding       (hired labor or          Local Shopping       with Special
Procurement        Advertised        Municipal        (at least 3 quotations)     Agencies
Locally        Corporations)
Total
Labor,   Contribations in Kind
Category of       Equipment &                        Purchased      Vehicles &   Technical
Expenditures       Materials     Labor   Materials  Materials       Equipnent    Assistance
Souirces:
Municipalities          -       (20.0)    (20.0)         -              -            -                (40.0) = 40.0
State                 40.0      (20.0)    (14.0)        11.5           7.0          5.0         63.5 +(34.0) = 97.5
Bank                  40.0        NIL        NIL         6.5           3.5          2.5         52.5         =  52.5
TOTAL PRDGRAM         80.0      (40.0)    (34.0)        18.0          10.5          7.5        116.0 +(74.0) = 190.0
Uses:
In Nor-Borrowing
Municipalities          -        (20.0)    (18.0)        -              -           2.0          2.0 +(38.0) = 40.0
In Borrawing
Muni.cipalities       80.0      (20.0)    (16.0)         18.0          10.5         5.5        114.0 +(36.0) - 150.0
Disbursement
Percentage             50%        NIL        NIL         35%            35%         35%           see footnote
Bank Disbursement     40.0        NIL        NIL         7.0            3.0         2.5         52.5
Note
Municipal contributions in kind (labor or construction materials) are expected to anannt to about US$40 million, or 30%           5>
over and above the State Program, which would thus be increased in scope from US$150 to US$190 million. The Bark                  a
participation in the State Program would be on the order of 35% (or 28% if referred to the total Program). Bank
disbursement would be made only against documented expenditures in the municipalities stipulating subloan agreements wAhich
are estimated to amrunt to US$114 million. This excludes an estimated $36 million in civil works, labor and materials
directly contributed by borrowing minicipalities. The loan disbursement percentages would be of 50% against civil works
contracts (LCB procurement) and 35% against purchased materials, equipment, vehicles and technical assistance,
averaging 45%.



ANNEX 1
-42-
Page 8 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 8: Loan Disbursement Schedule
(In US$ million)
Bank
Quarter    Calendar                                                  Fiscal
Ending:     Year              Quarter   Cumulative       Quarter    Year
December      1983              4.0/a        4.0          Second    FY84
March         1984              0.3          4.3          Third      FY84
June          1984              1.3          5.6          Fourth    FY84
September    1984               2.2          7.8          First      FY85
December      1984              3.1         10.9          Second    FY85
March         1985              3.9         14.8          Third      FY85
June          1985              4.5         19.3          Fourth    FY85
September    1985               5.1         24.4          First      FY86
D2comber      1985              5.3         29.7          Second    FY86
March         1986              5.1         34.8          Third      FY86
June          1986              4.7         39.5          Fourth    FY86
September    1986               4.3         43.8          First      FY87
December      1986              3.7         47.5          Second    FY87
March         1987              2.2/b       49.7          Third      FY87
June          1987              1.3/b       51.0          Fourth    FY87
September    1987               1.0/b       52.0          First      FY88
December      1987              0.7/b       52.7          Second    FY88
a/ Debit in account for payment of front-end fee and for special account
opening.
b/ Disbursement adjusted at about 50% to recover special account
plus front end fee.



BRAZIL
PARAN  MARKET TOWNS IMPRPNT PRaJECtS
Table 9:  Implemntation Monitortrg Schxlule
CAIJEDAR YEAR                              1983                              1984                              1985                             1986                             1987
QJIES                          I      II     III    IV          I     II     III    IV           I     II     III    IV           I     II     III    IV           III I      1V
Disbursement of                               front-erxd
Loan Proceeds                                fee      8&         10%   122      17%     23%        31%   40%   52%     63%          73%  83%    91%       95%       97.5% 100% - Closirg Date
Dec. 31,1987
Progress Reports                                        1           2     3       4       5          6      7      8      9          10   11       12      13         14     Ccnpletion
and Audits                                                         Audit                             Audit                           Audit                          Audit   Report
Yearly Program
Review                                             X                                 X                              X                                  X
Project Supervision
Staff (Professional)                           40    40          45   45       45      45         50    50      50    50           50    50      50      50         40     40
Technical Assistance
Staff (Professional)                           25    25          30   30        30     30         35    35      35    35           35    35      35      35         30     30
Monitoring & Evaluation
Reports                                               X                                  x                             X                                  x                                 x       tu 
0
1



BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TowNS IMPROVEMENr PROJECT
Table 10: Physical Progress Indicators
Physical Quantities                                          Implementation Years (July 1983 through December 1986)
Project Conponents                             Total                        First Year                   Dec. 83      June 84      Dec. 84       June 85      Dec. 85       June 86      Dec. 86
(to June 1984)
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
Street paving                        2,490,000 D   2 + 200 KRm               129.000 i2                     5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Town squares inprovement                670,000  m2                           35,000 m?                     5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
Bridges ard crossings                     200                                   22                          5%           11%           19%/         23%           19%          14%           9%
Electrification                         480,000  m                            25,000 m                      5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
Traffic signs                             250    Km of street                   27.5 Km of street           5%            11%          19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Drinking water                          224,000  m                            11,600 m                      5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
Sewerage                                45,700  m                              2,300 m                      5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Street furniture                          250    Km of street                   27.5 Km of street           5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Rural roads rehabilitation               18,400  Km                               960 Km                    5%            11%          19%          23%           19%/         14%           9%
Site Preparations                          75    ha                                 8 ha                    5%            11%          19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Slum upgrading                            7,200  households                      650 households             5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
O?ther works                              n.s                                   n.s                         5%            11%          19%           1/%          19%          14%           9%
Subtotal A                        n.s.                                   n.s                        5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
B. CUMMUNITY FACILITIFS AND SERVICES
Kindergartens                            16.2W    2 (96 units)                    840 m2 (5 units)          5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
Cymnasia                                 62,000  m2 (46 units)                 3,200 m? (2-3 units)         5%            11%          19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Sport grounds                          172,000  m2 (584 tnits)                 8,900 m2 (15 units)          5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Social centers                           12,900  m2 (50 centers)                 700 m2 (2-3 centers)    5%              11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Health posts                             12,000  m2 (236 tnits)                  600 m2 (12 units)          5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
Other public hilldings                    4,300  m2 (110 units)                  230 m2 (5-6 units)         5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%           9%
Subtotal B                           -                                     -                        5%            11%          19%          23%           19%           14%          9%
C. EUIPMENT AND VEHICLFS             (not specified)                            n.s.                        5%           11%           19%          23%           19%          14%            9%    X Z
O >c
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTA: ..             (3,750 staff unotha)                    840 staff mnnths              10%           12%           12%          14%           14%          14%          14%     0
0



-45-
BRAZIL                                              ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 20
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table  11:   Parana  State  Budgets -  1979-1983
(current TJSS Millions)
54'?                         1980                          1981                          1482                          19B3                         '-- '.
RECEIPTS                              ANOUNT         AS X          AMOUNT          AS X         AN4GNT           AS X         AiOUNT           AS %         AMOUNT          As X             ,i.'h
______                  ==:::=======   =====   ========Zz=====z  =======           ===========         ======:  =           =========    == ==z-                                     --------===    === 
FISCAL RECEIPTS                           750.38         71             527,S3        65              699.51        oS              896.s5        67             ?72.o4         55                 -
(OF WHICH ICH,                  717.2                   68   504.13                   62   675.16                   63   884.75                   66   948.03                   t3
OiTHER RECEIPTS                            96-05          9             104.30        13              132,51        12              1511.2        I1             214.84         14
DF ANICH FEDL TAX SHARES;        47.0:                   4    54.62                   7    53.28                    ;    50,65                    4   120.60                    8
FEDERAL CAPITAL TRANSFERS                   67.90         a              73.90          7              38.06         a              104.7          a              106.io         7                12
CREDIT OPERATIONS                          144.37        14             109,00         13             148.09        14              184.44        14              206.94        t4
TOTAL RECEIPTS                  1058.71       iOO             019.02       100             1068.18       to0             13-36,0        Go0            1500.57       Po
EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES                  340.04         32             274.82        34              343.84        32              405.7P        30             457.92         ;i               - -
TRANSFERS                                 229.74         22             22S60         27              321.31        3)              417.12        31            5laE           ST              L2.sF
INDESTFENTS                               135.08         13              73.2s                        109.42        IA              109.59         a              119.07         S
OTHER CAPITOL EXPENDITURES                20o.08        :D6             181.53                       186,3        17              007.22        :2             :66.94         la
DEBT SERVICE                                73,77         7              tiB2          a              107.21        10             Ih;7,16         a             1l2 -si-
--------  ----  ------- -    ----            --------     ----                          ----
ON INTERNAL BEDT                  22.10         2              19.06          2              23.45          2              22.40         2              51.5i          3
INTEREST      14.58                   1    13.54                   2    13,04                    1    12.32                    1    45,45                    3
PRINCIFAL      8,52                   1     5.53                    1    10.40                   1    10.07                    1      5.56
ON EXTERNAL DEBT                 50.67    s                    4236 577                                    8               84,;   a                     0a.45 D4.
iNTEREST      17,23                   2    18.54                   2    oO.20                    6    65.05                    5    65.1A 4                                 i?.;6
PRINCIPAL    33,45                    3    24,21                    3    23.57                    2    19.73                   1    21.44                    1
= = = =    =     = == =    = = --- ---   - -      - - ---       ---             --- ---       -- --             - - -   --                   --- - -      - ---                - -
TOTAL EXPENDITURES             10582.1        100             805.02       100             1068.18       100             1336.90       1oo            1500.57        100               too
PARANA STATE CORPSRASI0NS BUDGETS - 1979-1903
(U5S MILLEONSi
AMOUNT      AS I             AOUNST      AS X              AMOUNT      AS X              ANOUNT      AS T             AMOUNT       AS             3 86FTH RT
R:ECEIPTS                                 267,37       100              170,30       I00              224.49       180              269.16       108             304.19        000               3.23
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~   ~    ~  --                -- --       ---               ------   -- --                -- --       ---              -- --       --
OWN RECEIPTS                            129.21        40               94.59        56              120.67        54             153.22         37             183.26        60                V.1'
FEDERAL TRANSFERS                       107.99        40               49,33        29              59.58         27              71.53         27              74.23        24               -8946
CREDIT OPERATIONS                        30.12        11               26,39        15               44.24        20              44.40         16              46.70        15               11.54
INTERNAL                26,42                  10    24.57                  14    40.10                   ID    36.31                   13    40.14                  IS               11.0.
EXTERNAL                 3.75                         1.82                   1      5.60                   3      8.09                   3     t.56                    2              14,94
EXPENDiTURES                              267.37       100              170.30       1IG              224.49       100             269.16        100             304.1s       108                3,28
CURRENT                       114.10                  43    91,19                   54   122.22                   54   140.95                  S2   172.47                   57               IO.8E
CAPITAL                       153.27                  57    79.12                   46   101.95                   45   128.21                  48   131.72                   43               -3.72
CONSOLIDATED BUDGETS 1979-1983
CREDIT OPERATIONS                         174,54         13             135.39        14              192133        15             22S.85         14             253.64         14               9,79
FEDERAL TRANSFERS                         175.89         13             123.22        13              147.64        02              176.31        11             300.99        17               14,7
OWN RECEIPTS                              975,65        74              726.72        74              922.00        73            1200.90         75            1250.13        69                6.39
TOTAL STATE                            1326.08       100              985.33       1oo            0261.98        100            1606.06       100             1804.76       100                8.01
UQS.1.00  = CR$                           20.7a                         42.33                        65.17                         127.16                       240.56
(*)  Exchange  rates  ait  the  tine  of budget formulation.   The virtual  contraction  of  the  8980  budget  is  explained  by  the  substantial devaluation
of  the  cruzeiro  against  the  dao3ar during  that year.  Over  time comoarison  refers  to  budgetary  previsions  only,  not actual outlays.



ANNEX 1
-46-                                                 Page 12 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 12: Parana Consolidated State Budgets by Sector and Economic Category
US 5 MILLIONS (current)
CURRENT EXPENDITURES
AMOUNT                                                        FERCENT
1979      i980      1981       1982      1983                 1979       i980      1981       1982      1983
LEGISLATURE                            15        12         13        14         16                    2         2          A         i          i
JUDICIARY                              28        26         30        39         46                    4         4          4         4          4
ADMINISTRATION    F PLANNING          106        83        137       162       213                    16        14         17        i7        i8
AGRICULTURE                            45        38         50        72         81                    7         6          6                    i
COMMUNICATIONS                          -         -          -         -          -                    -         -          -         -         -
DEFENSE I POLICE                       65        60         70        86         8B                    9        10          9
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   13         11        23        16         15                              2          3         2
EDUCATION                             196       168       200        257       329                   29         2E        25         27        is
ENERGY                                  -         2          i         2          -                    -         -          -         -         -
HOUSING                                 4         4          8         2         34                    1         1          1         '
INDUSTRYi COMM. a SERVICES             14        13         14        13        17                    2          2         2          1         1
HEALTH 8 SANITATION                    37        32         48        59         69                    5         5         6          6         6
LABOUR                                  1         1          I         I          1 1                            0         0          A          ;
SOCIAL SECURITY                        98        92       125        140       187                    14        16        16         15        16
TRANSPORT                              63        50         66       100        84                     9         8         8         IC, 
T I T A L        684       590        787       964      1181                   100       100       10         100       100
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
AMOUNT                                                        PERCENT
1979      1980      1981       1982      1983                 1979       1980     1i90        1982      1983
LEGISLATURE                             2          1         1         2          2J0                            1          0
JUDICIARY                              13        13         15        22        27                     2         4          3         4         4
AIDINISTRATION t PLANNING              56        30         46        40        38                     9        10 C.     it 
AGRICULTURE                             6         6          5        24        31                     1         2          1         4         5
COMMUNICATIONS                          I          I         I         I          I                    0         0          3         0         3
DEFENSE I POLICE                       14         5          6         9          9                              2          1         2          1
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   48        23         50        45        71                     8         6        12          8        12
EDUCATION                              54        42         51        66        T4                     9        12        12         11        16
ENERGY                                 31        42         56        61         63                    a        12         13        11        11
HOUSING                                22         8         21         6          5                    4         2         5          1         1
INDUSTRY, COMM, a SERVICES             31        15        27         25        32                    5          4         6          4         J
HEALTH I SANITATION                    77        54         34        76         49                   13        15         8         13         8
LABOUR                                       -          -         -         -               -                    -          -         -         -
SOCIAL SECURITY                         3        12          8         9         18                    0         3         2          2         3
TRANSPORT                             231        97        103       196        159                   38        i7        25         34        27
TO T AL        608       358       421        583       598                  100        100       100        100       100
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
AMOUNT                                                        PERCENT
1979      1980      1981       1982      1983                 1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
LEGISLATURE                            17        13         14        16         19                    1         1          1         1          I
JUDICIARY                              41        39         45        61        73                     3         4         4          4         4
ADMINISTRATION I PLANNING             162       120        183       202       250                    12        12         15        13        14
A6RICULTURE                            51        44         55        96        112                    4         4          4         6          6
COMMUNICATIONS                          1                    1         1                               0         0         0          0         U
DEFENSE I POLICE                       79        65         76        95        97                     6         7          6         6         5
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   61        34         72        62        86                     5         3         6          4         5
EDUCATION                             251       209       251        323       423                   19         21        20         20        23
ENERGY                                 51        43         56        64        64                     4         4         4          4         2
HOUSING                                25        12         29         7        39                     2         1         2          0         2
INDUSTRY, COMM. I SERVICES             45        28        41         39        49                    3          3         3          2         3
HEALTH I SANITATION                   114        85         82       135       118                     9         9         6          8         6
LABOUR                                  1         1          1         1          1                    -         -         -          -         -
SOCIAL SECURITY                       101       104        133       150       205                    8         11        11          9        11
TRANSPORT                            293        147        169       296       243                   22         15        13         18        13
CONTINGENCY FUND                       34        38        54         59        57                    3          4         4          4         3
T 0 T A L       1325       985       1263      1606       1837                  100       100        100       100       100
1551.0(l =  CPS                  20.78      42.33    65.17   137.16   240.58
Exchange rates at the time of budget formulation. The virtual contraction of the 1930 budget
is explained by the substantial devaluation of the cruzeiro against the dollar during that year.
Over time comparison based on budgetary previsions not actual outlays.



-47-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL                                         Page 13 of 20
PARANA MARXET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
05/03/83                                   Table 13: POPULATION t INCOME PROJECTIONS
ALALPA
1980    '80-82                                    1970-1980          1985 EXPONENTL    AGfREiATE REAI INCOME            1985 INCOME
NO OF    ADDED    1980 CENSUS POPLILAIOIN    GROWTH RATES            TREND ESTIKATE       (1980 CRS BILLIONS)       ADJUSTD FSTIMATE
REGN RANK    TDWNS    TOWNS   CENTER    URBAN   I DISI  POPIJLAT  JNCOME    PEOPLE   I1DISI   1970              3980      1985F               % DIST
I     A        11              1184'    >)93        0.74      1.87               14379      0.62                                   16415      0.72
I     B         1                4806     4806      0.27      4.39                5957      0.26                                    6801     0.30
EAST    C         2               13253    13389       0.78      3.96              16862      0.72                                   19250      0.84
I     D         5              63746    66062       3.72      3.04               76740      3,29                                   87606     3.84
I     E         0                   0         0     0.00      0.00                   0      0.00                                       0     0.00
:===      ====   ==2===  =======   =====:   _=4:__===C= _=:.                                                       =====.-=   .=== __
A-E        19              93650    97050       5.52      3.06    11.26   11938        4.88      2.59     7.53    11.19   130072        5.71
F-I        15            1148988  1398461    78.84        7.04    19.?5  1965397    84.23    25.33   147.32   166.0B  1941744    85.21
URBAN          34            1242638  1496311    84.35        6.73    18.69  2079335    89.11    27.92   154.85   177.27  2071016    90.92
RURAL                                   277582    15.65    -1.75        8.50   254154    10,89        2.79      6.30      6.13   206993       9.08
TOTAL          34                      1773893   100.00       4.79    18.69  2333489   100.00    27.92   154.85   177.27  2278609   100.00
II    A        14         1    22248    28492       4.19      4.78               35981      4.68                                  31597      5.22
11    B        10         1    34425    44348       6.53      8.40               66378      B.63                                  58290      9.63
S/WEST  C         4               31292    35731       5.26     8.62               54029      7.02                                   47446      7.84
II    D         3              38337    41075       6.05      6.36               55917      7.27                                  49104      8.11
II    E         3              80999    95284    14.02        6.29              129265    16.80                                  113516    18.75
A-E        34         2   207301   244930    36.05        6.77      B,78   341570    44.39    11.39    26.42    34.07   299953    49.54
F-I         0                  0         0         0      0.00      0.00         0      0.00                                       0     0.00
URBAN          34         2   207301   244930    36.05        6.77      8.78   341570    44.39       S1,39    26.42    34.07   299953    49.54
RURAL                                   434471    63.95    -0.31        4.91   427845    55.61        7.51     12.13    13.48   305492    50,46
TOTAL          34         2             679401   100.00       1.68      8.7B   769415   100.00    11.39    26.42    34.07   605445   100.00
III    A         9         7    16884    23205       1.25      5.67               30573      1.44                                  30507       1.49
III    B        18         3    64210    89346       4.83      6.09              120060      5.65                                  119800     5.84
WEST    C        20         2   136017   180151       9.73      7.13              254255    $1.97                                   253705    12.38
III    D         6              94431   109541       5.92      5.43              142690      6.72                                  142381      6.95
III    E         6             200754   234013    12.64        7.01              328316    15.46                                  327625.   15.98
= ===    === =   ==== ====  -=~   -  =_   = m-=_=                 m=- ==_       =m-                                === ===    =w=== =
A-E        59       12   512296   636216    34.37         6.57    12.38   075914    41.25    22.41    71.98    96.97   874017    42.64
F-I         2             193970   225193    12.16    15.12    16.52   455315    21.44            3.08    14,19    20.00   266653    13,01
URBAN          61        12   706266   861449    46.53        8.20    12.95  1331229    62.70    25.49    86.17   116.97  1140670    55.65
RURAL                                   990000    53.47    -4.36    12.28   792058    37.30    14.66    46.69    46.07 . 909233    44.35
TOTAL          61        12            1851449   100.00    -0.46       12.95  2123287   100.00    25.49    86.17   116.97  2049903   100.00
IV    A        53         1    64469    99184       4.39      2.55              112493      4.79                                 112484      4.08
IV    B        32         1   113909   121213       5.36      3.01              140586      5.99                                 140574      5.09
NORTH   C        24              167808   189303      8.38      4.04              230802      9.84                                  230783      8.36
iV    D        13         1   175907   202470       8.96      3.94              245641    10.47                                  245620      8.90
IV    E         7             216017   222500       9.85      4.33              275006    11.72                                  274983      9.96
====     ====   ==.====   ==_=_=  =_ :=    ::====                  ===.===     ==                                  =======   , ~====
A-E       129         3   750110   834670    36.94        3.75    11.20  1004529    42.81    24.06    69.52    89.27  1004444    36.39
F-I         4             532488   549692    24.33        4.71     13.42   691893    29.49    13.73    48.38    65.21   829876    30,07
URBAN         133         3  1290598  1384362    61.27        4.12    12.05  1696422    72.30    37.79   117,90   154.48  1834320    66.46
RURAL                                   875101    38.73    -S.77        9.62   650082    27,70    15.73    39.41    49.34   925698    33.54
TOTAL         133         3            2259463   100.00    -1.05    12,05  2346504   100.00    37.79   117.90   154.48  276001B   100.00
V    A         5               9125    11843       1.86      3.82               14283      1.97                                   17269     2.33
J    B         8              29917    35929       5.65      5.25               46407      6.40                                  56107      7,56
2 PLAN  C         3               26687    26938       4.23     2.70               30777      4.25                                   37210      5.01
V    D         0                   0         0     0.00       NA                    0      0,00                                       0     0.00
V    E         3              76377    84612    13.30        5,07              108371     14.95                                 131022    17.65
A-E        19             142106   159322    25.04        4.57    12.53   199838    27.57         5.91    19.26    26.73   241607    32.55
F-I         1             171111   172503    27.11        4.31    17.70   213000    29.39         3.17    16.16    23.40   294404    39,67
URBAN          20             313217   331025    52.15        4.43    14.58   412838    56.96         9.08    35.42    50.14   536011    72.22
RURAL                                   304419    47.85       0.49    10.09   311965    43.04         3f40      8,89      8.69   206193    27.78
TOTAL          20                       636244   100.00       2.34    14.58   724802   100.00         9.08    35.42    50.14   742204   100.00
VI    A         2         3      4413     4565      1.06    10,67                 7577      1.37                                    6715      1.65
VI    B         1               2605      4335      1.01     10.45                7124      1.29                                    6314      3.55
CENTER  C         2               13614    22301       5,19     9.56               35207      6.37                                   31201      7.67
VI    D         2              31396    34177       7.95    17.27                75806    13.71                                   67181    16.51
VI    E         0                   0         0     0.00       NA                    0      0.00                                       0      0.00
A-E         7         3    52026    65378    15.20    13.06         7.76   125714    22.74        4.47     9.44    14.50   111410    27.39
F-I         1              81304    89286    20,76        7.50    16.06   12S806    23.197        2.25      9.98    13.00   120025    29.50
URBAN           8         3    5202B   154664    35.97        9.49     11.36   253900    45.93        6.62    19.42    27.50   231436    56.89
RURAL                                   275352    64.03       1.66      7.78   298916    54.07        4.46      9.42    10.00   175386    43.11
TOTAL           a         3             430016   100.00       3.80    11.20   552815   100.00         6.72    19.42    27.50   406822   100.00
A       94        12   148984   180302        2.36      3.41             215286      2.43                                  214986      2.43
B       70         5   249872   299977        3.93      4.92             386512      4.37                                  387886      4.38
PARANA  C        55         2   388671   468313       6.14      5.57              621933      7.03                                  619:94      7.00
D       29          1   403817   453325       5.94      4.93             596793      6.74                                  591892      6.69
E       19              574147   636409       8.34      5.63             840978      9.50                                  847145      9.57
====     ====  = ======  =.======    ===m==   = _==    _=__u=  .-mz= ==        :=                                  ====_==   =m===,=
TOTAL A-E       267        20  1765491  2038406    26.71        5.14    13.17  2661503    30,07    70.83   204.15   272.73  2661503    30.07
TOTAL F-I        23            2127861  2435135    31.91        6.76    17.37  3453791    39.02    47.56   236.03   287.70  3452702    39.01
URBAN TOT       290        20  3893352  4473541    58.63        5.98    14.04  6115294    69.10   118.29   440.18   560.43  6114205    69.08
RURAL TOT                          NA    3156925    41.37    -3.34        9.73  2735019    30.90    48.55   122.85   133.72  2736107    30.92
POPM  TOT       290        20      NA    7630466   100,00       0.96    14.04  8050312   100.00   118.29   440.18   560.43  8850312   100.00



-48-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL                                 Page 14 of 20
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 14:   PROPOSEDI ALLOCATION OF THE STATE FUNDS
PER US $ MILLION EQUIVALENT
SUB-       TOWN      URBAN                          $   PFR      N8.0F        P PER    $ PER
REGION       RANK  POPULATN   PERCENT   WEIGHTS   MILLION          TOWNS       TOWN    CAPITA
A     16415      12,62        1.47       9056         11        823       0.55
B      6801       5.23        1.28       3283          1       3283       0.48
EAST          C      19250      14.80       1.10       7965          2       3983       0.41
D     87606      67.35       0.92      30207           5       6041       0.34
E          -          -      0.73           0          -          -       0v28
A-E    130072    100.00                   50512         19       ?659       0.38
A     31597      10.53        1.47     17432          15       1162       0.55
B     58290      19.43       1.28      28139          11       2558       0,46
SOUTH          C      47446      15.82'      1.10      19632          4       4908       0.41
WEST         it    49104        16.37       0.92      16932          3       5644       0.34
E    113516      37.84       0.73      31313           3      10438       0.'26
A-E    299953    100.00                  113447         36       3151       0.38
A     30507       3.49        1.47     16631          16       1052       0.55
B    119800      13.71       1.28      57832          21       2754       0.48
WEST          C    253705      29.03        1.10    104976          22       4772       0.41
Ei   142381      16.29       0.92      49094           6       8182       0.34
E    327625      37.48       0.73      90375           6      15062       0.28
A-E    874018    100.00                 319108          71       4494       0.38
A    112484      11.20        1.47     620J7          54       1149       0.jJ
B    140574      14.00        1.28     67,860         33       2056       0.48
NORTH          C    230793       22.98       1.10      95492         24       3979       0.41
D    245620      24.45       0.92      846?2          14       6049       0,34
E    274983      27.38       0.73      75854           7      10836       0.28
A-E   1004444    100.00                 385955         132       2924       0.38
A     17269       7.15        1.47       9527          5       1905       0.55
B     56107      23.22        1.28     27085           8       3386       0.48
SECOND          C      37210      15.40       1.10      15396          3       5132       0.41
PLATEAU          D          -          -       0.92          0          -           -      0.34
E    131022      54.23       0.73      36142           3      12047       0.28
A-E    241608    100.00                   88151         19       4640       0.38
A      6715       6.03        1.47       3705          5        741       0.55
B      6314       5.67        1.28       3048          1       3048       0.48
CENTER          C      31201      28.01       1.10      12910          2       6455       0.41
El    67181      60.30       0,92      23165           2      11582       0.34
E          -          -      0.73           0          -          -       0.28
A-E    111411     100.00                  42827         10       4283       0.38
A    214987       8.08        1.47    118608         106       i119       0.55
B    387886      14.57        1.28    187246          75       2497       0.48
PFARANA         C    619595       23.28       1.10    256372          57       4498       0.41
TOTAL          D    591892       22.24       0.92    204091          30       6803       0.34
E    847146      31.83       0,73    233684           19      12299       0.2Y
A-E   2661506    100.00                1000000         287       3484       0.38



-49-                                 ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS fMTE1MENT PRDJECT
Table 15: Illustrative Distribution of Loan Funds
(in constant June 1983 US$)
Town Size Categories                    A - E            A             B             C              D             E
Number of Towns                          287            106           75            57             30            19
Total Project Funds                  150,000,000    17,191,200    28,086,900    38,455,800    30,613,650    35,052,600
Grants (65%)                        97,500,000    11,564,280    18,256,485    24,9%,270    19,898,872    22,784,190
Loans  (35%)                        52,500,000     6.226.920      9.830,415    13.459,530    10,714,778    12,268,410
Assumed No. of Loans                     150            55             39            30             16            10
Borrowing Town Programs                  700.000       224,000        500,000       900,000      1,360,000     2,460.000
Grant Only                             350,000       112,000        250,000       450,000        680,000     1,230,000
loan = Grant                           350,000       112,000        250,000       450,000        680,000     1,230,000
Unused Debt Capacity*
At Deoember 1981                       485,780       211,540        365,300       505,420        747,010     1,189,720
Percent Utilized                         72%           53%            68%           89XL          91%           103%
Anumal Borrowing Limit*                 163,390         62,950        107,420       157,020        256,590       467,950
1/3 Loan Amount                       116,100         37,300        83,300        150,000       227,000        410,000
Percent Utilized                        71%            59%            78X           95%            88%*          88%
Debt Service Capacity*                  122,540         47,220         80,570       117,760        192,440       350,970
Debt Service on Loan                   82.390         21,530         52,370        92,690         131,360      243,700
Percent Utilized                         67%           46%            65%            79%          68%*           67%
Note:
The above distribution shows the possible absorption of loan funds under strict 1imitirg conditions:
1) No attempt is made to forecast the growth of manicipal receipts over the project period.
2) Counterpart grants are not accounted for in assessing the debt capacity ratios.
3) Debt service is calculated on a level basis as if the full 3 years amxunt were borrowed in 1982 and amrtized at 6X
per annum over 10 years with 3 years grace period.
4) Little more than half of the mnicipalities are assumed to borrow, but the vast majority is in the position to
undertake loans: if a greater proportion were to do so, individual loan annuts and debt service ratios would
correspondingly decrease.
5)  Unused debt capacity excludes accounts for all outstanding debts (both intra and extra-limit).
(*) Average values in each size category derived from the anilysis of a 50 town sample (See Table 20).



-50-
ANNEK I
BRAZIL                                  Page 16 of 20
PARANA MKARET TOWNS IMPROVMENT PROJECT
Table 16: Percentual Budget Structure of 52 Municipalities
(3 Years Average 1980-81-82)
A               B             C              D               E           A - E
Population Size                   Less than        2,501 to        5,001 to      10,001 to       20,001 to    Less than
of Center Towns                     2,500            5,000          10,000        20,000          50,000        50,000
Sarple Size                        18 towns         9 towns        9 towns        8 towns        7 towns       281 towns
_  17.8%            12.2%          17.8% /         25.8%          36.8%         18.5%
Real estate tax (IPTU)                 .9             1.2            4.3            3.6           3.9            2.2
Urban service tax (ISS)                .7              .7            1.6            3.3            4.7            1.4
Betternent charges                     .6             2.1            1.2            1.7             .5           1.2
Other charges & levies                7.4            11.7           22.1           12.4          30.1           13.6
Own Receipts                          9.6            15.7           29.2           21.0          39.2           18.4
Value added tax (ICM)                25.2            32.5           35.1           46.8          42.6           32.6
Other transfers                      65.2            51.8           35.7           32.2          18.2           49.0
Transfer Receipts                    90.4            84.3           70.8           79.0          60.8           81.6
Total receipts                      100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0          100.0
Current Expenditures                 72.0            74.4           69.2           64.9          70.3           71.2
Tnvestments                          23.2            21.4           20.8          33.3           28.5           23.7
Other capital expenditures            4.8             4.2           10.0            1.8           1.2            4.8
TOTAL EKPENDITURES                  100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0          100.0
Ratio
Own recpts.+ ICM/currt.expndts        48.3%           64.8%          92.9%       104,5%         116.4%           71.6%
Notes:
- ICM revenues (20% of locally collected charges) increase with town size.
- Own receipts (direct receipts) also increase with the size of towns.
- Dependerry on transfer receipts is striking for smaller towns and diminishes with town size.
- The levels of current expemlitures (70%), and investment (24%), appear to be independently set.
- The sample municipalities were selected at random. The A-E averages were derived by expanding the samples results
to the universe of each town size category.
- The contribution of the real estate tax in C,D,E towns is related to the recent introduction of the CIATA program.
In the sample 52 towns considered, the coverage of the program was as follows: A(1); B(1); C(7); D(4); E(4) or 17/52
- Coverage of current expenditures (as expressed by above ratios) would improve if other shared revenues were considered,
such as the property transfer tax (TIBI), the rural land tax (ITR), the fuels tax (IULC) and the electricity tax
(IUEE), all of which are shared in variable proportion on the basis of origin. Unfortunately this was not afforded by
our data base.
- See listing of sample municipalities in Project File, Table E-19 and Figure E-2 of Annex E, Project File.



it~ ~ ~ ~ tf0.                U.4gU            ,rr.C ~ r,,C,0                    aa  -a Ia
it~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-aa -aa
it~ ~     C'.   n~C  i-           -cjiC            -ICC..          ( -..OiO4          --aaat
it ~  ~    r,CnCC,"--               'j,)                           '.,,C.
00C
-4~~~~a
N       11CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    .



-52-
BRAZIL                                                              ANNEX 1
Page 18 of 20
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVMENT PROJECT
Table  Lg:   1980 Per Capita  and  Per Town  Weight of Key Budget Items
(32  towns  sample)
OWN   RECEIPTS                       TRANSFERS          TOTAL                            TOTAL EXPENDITURES                           DEBT
RCPTS             =SERVICE
IPTU      IS1      B.C.    OTHER    TOTAL       ICN     OTHER  FEDERAL                       OPERTN6   CURRENT              INiST   CAPITAL
1900 URBAN
TOWNS POPULATION
AMOUNTS      50086   148390    10740    95530   304740   867650   671670  1867680  3711750                  2479690  2583660              079580   988250              101640
X TOWN        5009    14039       1074     9553    30474    86765    67167  I06768   371175                  247969   258366               87950    9B825               10164
10 'Al      19330          X CAPITA       2.59      7.68     0,56      4,94    15.77    44,89    34.75    96.62   192.02                 128.28   133.66               45,50    51.13                5.26
PERCENT           1        4         0         3        8        23        10       50       100                 67        70                 24        27                   3
AMOUNTS     123695    81025       8460   174020   387200   9B9730   300040  1222195  2099170                1987465  2114260              601425   636375              80270
X TOWN       24739    16205       1692    34B04    77440   197946    66008   244439   579034                 397493   422852              120285   127275               16054
5 'B'      22695          X CAPITA       5.45      3.57     0.37      7.67    17.06    43.61    13.22    53.05   127.74                  07.57    93.16               26.50    20.04                3.54
PERCENT           4        3         0        6        13        34        10       42       100                 69        73                 21        22
ANONTS      110625    42030    22680   291435   456765  1202250   582420  1379925  3621360                  2492035  2650250              704130   896965               91850
X TOWN       22125      B406      4536    56207    91353   240450   116404   275985   724272                 490407   530050              156026   179393               18370
5  C'      36073          X CAPITA       3.00      1.14     0.62      7,63    12.39    32.61    15.80    37.42    90,21                  67.50    71.80               21.27    24.33                2.49
PERCENT           3        1         1        8        13        33       16        30       100                 69        73                 22        25                  3
AMOUNTS     232720   153215    90510   062090  1359030  3310730   6056B0  1790920  7066355                  5041855  5375145             1320280  1520620              400235
X TOWN       46544    30643    19702   172410   271B06   662146   121136   358104  1413271                  1000371  1075029              264056   304124               80047
6 '3'      84629          X CAPITA       2.75      1.01     1.16    10.19    16.06    39.12.    7.16    21.16    03.50                   59.50    63.51              15.60    17.97                 4.73
PERCENT           3        2         1       12        19        47        9        25       100                 71        76                 19        22                  6
AMOUNTS     736704   601116   232720  2516112  4006660  7045006   929472  2700522 17134044                 10549992 1IB76946             4266156  4991700                  NA
X TOWN      122704   100186    30708   419352   601110  1307501   1549012   450007  2055674                 1758332  1979491              711026   B31950                  NA
6 'E'     20B716          X CAPITA       3.53      2.B0     1.12    12.06    19.58    37.59        4.45    12.94    02.09               50.55    56.90               20.44    23.92                   NA
PERCENT           4        4         1       15        24        46        5        IA       3A 62                         6e                 25        29                 NA
AMOUNTS    1253030  1025776   373110  3929107  6594395 14215366  3009282  8961242 34432679                22551037 24600261              7851571  9033910
X TOWN       39182    32056    11660   1227B7   206075   444230    96540   280039  1076021                   704720   760750              245362 . 202310
32 0-E     372243          X CAPITA       3.37      2.76     1.00    10.56    17.72    38.19        0.30    24.17    92.50                60.5B    66.09              21.09    24.27
PERCENT           4        3         1       11        19        41         9       26       100                 65        71                 23        26
A-E                      X TOWN        26161    21431      6532    71192   125592   292609    06997   256450   779440                 523267   562296              171752   194593                   NA
UNIUERSE   2316275          X CAPITA       3.17      2.60     0.79      B.64    15.24    35.51    10.55    31.11    94.56                  63.48    60.22               20.84    23.61                  NA
PERCENT           3        3         1        P        16        38       11        33       100                 67        72                 22        25                 NA
Notes
The average values for the universe of 287 target towns was obtained by expanding the average values derived from a 32 towns sample
(11.4%) to the total population of each category. The percentual breakdowns thus obtained show remarkable consistency with those
obtained averaging the budget structure of 52 other towns over 1980, 1981 and 1982 (see Table 16). Debt service information was more
accurately analyzed in the following Table 20, which gives this information also for towns of the E category. Table 19 shows the evolution
of  32 municipal budgets over 4 years  (1977-1981).   The municipalities  analyzed  in  the  Table  above were: Type A: Boa Esperanca,
Campo do  Tenente,   Cruz Machado, Jaboti, Miraselva, Nova  Cantu, Porto  Rico*, Texeira  Soares, Vitorino*  and Xambre; Type B: Bom
Sucesso,* General Carneiro, Mallet,Harilandia do Sul, Santa Helena, and Santo Inacio*; Type C: Coronel Vivida Faxinal*, Mambore*,
Morvetes*, Paraiso do Norte*, Riberao do Pinhal*, and Santa Mariana*; Type D: Assai*, Dois Vizinhos*, Loanda*, Palmeira and
Quedas do  Iguacu*;  Type E: Arapongas*, Ivaipora, Mtdianeira*,  Pato  Branco, Telemaco  Borba  and  Toledo.  (*marks CIATA Towns).



ANNEX 1
-53-                                               Page   19  of 20
BRAZIL
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 19:  Budget Evolution of 32 Sample Towns 1977-1981
GM  RECEIPTS                       TRANSFERS         TOTAL                       TOTAL EIPENDITVRES                           DEBT
RCPTS                                                                  SERVICE
TONS                YEAR      IPTU      ISS    D.C.   OTHER   TOTAL    ICH         OTHER FEDERAL                     OPERTNO CURRENT               IHYST CAPITAL
2977         5        0        2       12       19       99       87      239      343               199      220                 97      122                24
1978         7        1        I       12       20      1oo       46      156      323               227      246                59        83                22
10 'A' THII AVERAGES          1971         6        o        3         9       17       78       39      153      287               204      219                64       71                 5
2980 08MM  POP.    29330  i298             a       15         I       10      30       S7        67      287     371                248      258                g8       99                20
1981         5        1        3       1       20      215       78      232      446               309      319                06        72                 7
1980 DOLLARS PER CAPITA                 2.59    7.68      8.S6    4.94   15.77   44.89    34.75   96.62  292.02                 228.28  133.66               45.50   51.13               5.26
4 YEAR GTH RATE                           -2       67        11        0        2        4       -2       14        7                12        9                -9      -12               -25
1977         9        3        0       30       43      170       44      183      439               325      362                01      114                30
1978         P        2        1       24       36      172       54      200      461               350      388                125      148                27
5 '' TDUW  AVERAGE            2979        to        4         0      33       47       152       59      298      457               319      340               107      148                15
1980 U8MM POP.    22695   1980            25       16        2       35       77      198       b0      244      580                397      423               120      127               1l
1991        20        4        4       48       75      259      119      284      737               536      567                148     165                26
-- - --- --- ---   ---    ----    ----    ----    ----                                    ----                       ----    ------
I1O DOXLARS PER CAPITA                  5.45    3.57    0.37    7.67   17.06   43.62    13.22   53.85  127.74                    87.57    93.12              26.50   28.04               3.54
V YEAR  RMT  RATE                         22        0      H.A       22       15       IJ        20       12       14                13       12                16       10                -7
1977        20        4        3       53       83      230       DO      22S      625               413      471               167      197                19
1978        25        6        5       70      105      261      127      226      719               472      538               202      220                 12
5 'C  Tro   AVERAsES          1979        19        5        5       48        78     220        46      239      582               417      472               109      131                 a
190 IRBU  POP.    36873   1980            22        8        5       56       91      240      110      276      724               498      530                157      279                18
1991        20        a        4       76      1o0      326       97      357      887               680      713               109      140                  6
190 DOLLARS PER CAPITA                 3.00     1.14    0.62    7.63   12.39   32.61   15.80   37.42   98.21                    67.58   71.88              21.27   24.33                2.49
4 YEAR ORUTH RATE                          0       20        9        8         7        9        3       12        9                13       11               -10       -8               -24
1977        25       13      1        45       93      350      107      220      770               448      506               215      260                62
1978        42       15       17       52      124      355      104      227      810               516      580               203      259                90
6 *D- TOW  AVERAGES           1979        41       25       20      626      240      572        69     300    1182                 827      901               298      242                65
IS90 MUR0i  POP.    84629   1990          47       31       20      172      272      662      122      358    1413               1oo8     1075                264     304                 80
1981        47       20       32      287      397      788      161      421    2767               1148    1211                724      774                30
- - -- -  - -- - -- --- --- - -----  - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---   - -- ---    -----  - -----             - -- ---  - -- ---         - -- --
I1O DOLLARS PER CAPITA                  3.30    2.17      1.40   12.22   19.27   46.94    8.59   25.39  100.20                   71.49   76.22              18.72   21.56               5.68
4 YEAR 8TH RATE                           17       12       32       59       44       23        it       18       23                27       24                35       31               -12
6 'El TOE AVERAGES            1980       223      100       39      419      681    130         IS5     450    2856                1758    1979                711      832                NA
I2S0 URBAN POP.   208716  I9l           140      231       49      448      769    1679       363      595    3508               2273    2517                990    1117                  MA
is22       166      102       66      444      778    1594       272      512    3482               2022    2268               2007     1224                NA
2980 DOLLARS PER CAPITA                 3.53    2.88    1.12   22.06   19.50   37.59    4.45   12.94   82.09                     50.55   56.90              20.44   23.92                  MA
2 YEASR W7H RATE                          16         1      31        3         7       I0        6        7       10                 7        7                24       21                NA
32  A-E  372243  I CAPITA               3.37    2.76    1.00   10.50   17.72   30.19    0.30   24.07   92.50                     60.58  60.09               21.09   24.74                  NA
A-E
UNIVERSE 2316275 X CAPITA               3.17     2.60    0.79    8.64   15.24   35.51   20.55   31.11   94.56                    63.48   68.22              20.04   23.61                  MA
Notes:
- See Table 17 for the list of municipalities in each category.
- The sample was based on readily available budgets with sufficient data to afford the analysis.  Although it
includes a good representation of each region, it could not be proportionally stratified. It comprised 10%
of the A municipalities, 9% of the B municipalities, 9Z of the C municipalities, 16% of the D municipalities,
and 31% of the E municipalities.
- Annual changes for each budgetary item were calculated over four years for the A,B,C and D category and over
2 years for-the E category.
- Seventeen of the municipalities considered (52%) were covered by CIATA (real estate tax improvement) programs
as follows: 2 type A, 2 type B, 7 type C, 4 type D and 2 type E.
- Debt service contraction is attributable to the lack of new borrowing opportunities and the progressive
amortization of outstanding debts.



BAI                                                                  Page  20  of 20
PAROANA MARKET TOWNS TISEROVEOOENT PROJECT
CAPIIO                               Table  20:   ANALYSIS 0F TOE DEBT CAPACITY OP A SAMPLE OF FIFTY lOANS AT JIA9RRY 1, 1982
(0S01.00 =CRS129.02)
NET BORROWING LIMITS                          PROPOSED LOANS AS PERCENT OF LIMITS
1981 MUNICIPAL RECEIPTS        OUTSTANDING DEDT    0003S       NET    ANNUAL       0E01               3 YR                1/3                  ADS
(CRUEIESOS BILLIONIS)  (05NO01~0   AT YEA; END 1951  CAPACTY    DEOT   BORRON   SERVICE                  LOAN      AS C    LOAN        AS 1    YEARS       AS I
CODE    TOANS                  GROSS   -LOAS         NET      NET   EX-LMT   DN-LMT    (70Z)  CAFACTY    (20%)    115%)                  94008T   OF NEC   AMOUNT   OP AOL        4-10   OF DSL
A 271E   AOIDOS DO SUL           17.00      0.00    17.00   131.44       0.00      COO      02.01    92.01    26.29    19.72                00.2 7       07    26,76        102    16.09        86
A 286A   004 ESFERANCA           56.10      0.01    55,07   432.02       0,02      2.30   3-02,41   000.04    06.40    64.80               102.56        04    34,19         40    20.50        00
A 2048   C0401R0                 40,92      0.00    42,92   370,32       0.00    6050   264,02   250.32    75.66    06.75                  112.05        43    37,05         49    23.50        42
A 2913   CR02 46CNAOO            44.22    01.00    44,22   341~96        0.00    0CDI    239.37   239,37    60.39    51.29                 112.31        47    37.77         55    23.04        46
A 290C   INACID MARTINS          39.00      0.00    39.10   300.00       1.00      1.19   212.10   212.110    60.60    45.45                72.24        34    24.00         40    15.20        03
A 2708N   JAROTI                 19,16      0.00    19.16   140.19       0.00      0.00   100.70   003.73    29,64    22.23                112.05       100    07,01        026    23.50       006
A 2070   MANOEL RIBAS            49.61      0.20    49.61   303.64       0.00    52.02   268,55   213.90    76.73    57.55                  72.24         33    24,00        01    15.20        26
A 2009   NOON A'LIANCA!IVAI       9.04      0.00      0.04    69,07      0.00      0.00    40.91    40.91    13.97    12.40                112.05       229    37.35        267    23.50       225
A 271E   PIEA                    20.01      0.00    20.01   154.77       0.00      0.00   100,34   020,34    30.95    23.22                 80027        74    26,76         06    16.09        73
A 290C   00946                   05.30      1.00    94.30   739.4        0.00    22.99   510.09   400.09   145.97   109,40                  72.24        15    24.00         16    15.20        14
A2710   PORT0 ANAZONAS           15.02      0.00    10.52   120,04       0.00      0.00    04,03    04,03    24.01    10,01                 00.27        96    26.76        I11    16.09        94
A 2090   RENASCENCA              24.32      2.00    52.30   404.46       1.00      0.00   203,12   274.74    00.09    60.67                113.01        41    07.77         47    23.04        39
VA283N   000 PESRI/PARANA        20.24      1.75    26,40   204.02       0.10    22.32   143.37   121.05    40.96    30.72                 112.05        93    07,35         91    23.50        77
OA2058   SAO TONE                46.58      2.00    46.58   360,17       0.00    26.008  2522_2   225.24    72.03    54,03                 102.56        46    04.19         47    21.50        40
A 207P   TE10E1RA 000000         60.12      0.00    60.10   464.75       2.00      7.76   3215,33   317,57    92.95    69,71               105.70        59    61,93         67    09.09        56
OA2090   VITORIND                35.64      0.00    35.64   275.59       0.00      0.00   192.91   192.91    55.12    41.04                213.01        59    37.77         69    20.04        50
02008   VAMBRE                   57.97      2.00    57.97   440.2        0.00      2.71   313,78   312.07,   09.65    67,24                102.56        33    24.19         30    21.50        32
0000000 17 'A' TOWNS          41.00      0.30    40,70   014.77       0.00      0.00   220.04   211.54    62.95    47.22                102.30        40    04,10        54    20.50         46
B 2093   AMPERE                  66.90      0.00    66.90   507,55       0.00      3.45   262.29   350.04   103.51    77.63                249,41        70    03,14         00    52.40        60
0 2068   AR00090                 77.56      2.60    74.96   579.65       0.00    16.67   407,.7c   309,00   105.93    06.95                260.50        69    09.50         77    56.50        65
O 2048   CALIFORNIA              39.30      0.00    30.30   304.50       0.00      2.00   217.15   205.15    60.90    45,67                200.59        94    66.02        110    42.19        92
0 2028   FLORAl                  39.35      00      39.05   004.20       0.00      0.2    212,99   212.09    60.06    42,.64               200.50        94    66.03       HI0    42.19         92
0 2090   GENERAL 200NE100        45.53      0.00    45.53   352,09       0.00    11.90   246.46   254.47    71.42    52.01                 249,41       106    03.14       110    52.40         99
02090   MARNELEIRO               70.06      0.00    70,06   609.02       0.00      0,00   426067   426.07   121.96    91.47                249.41        50    03.14         60    52.40        57
U 269E   40014600               102.22      5.02    97.10   750.04       0.00    23.44   525.59   502.14   050.17   112.63                 751.l0        64   106.70         71    67.26        60
0 203N   PARANACITY              40.59      0.00    40.59   075.76       0.00      0,00   260.03   260.02    75.15    56.06                200.50        76    66.03         09    42.19        75
02700   00000003                 45.90      2.34    43,56   336.07       0.00    25.72   235,01   210.07    67.37    50,53                 330.10       157   110,03        163    69.46       13?
02039   STA CR02 00 9.2.         50.49      0.01    50,49   052.29       0.00      2.72   2216,60   314.06    90.46    67.84               200.50        64    66.03        74    42.09         62
02008   SANTA HELENA            170,79      3.50   170.29  1324.53       0.02    04.30   927.17   092.79   264.91   1903,60                260.50        00    09,50        04    56.50         20
AYERAOE 11  0B  00893         70.60      0.22    69.46   537.11       0.00    10,67   375,97   365.30   107.42    800.07                240.06        60    02.95        77    52.37         65
C 2038   ALTO PARANA             56.27      0.00    56.27   425.10       0.00   116.06   304.50   100.53    07.03    651,27                207.94       206   129,01        149    01.62       125
O 2058   ALTO P100101           121,73      2.20   120,42   993.09       0.00    41,69   695.17   153.40   190.62   140,96                 465.24        71   155.00        70    97.90         66
C 209S   CR0P8080               123.91      5.00   110.61   917,00       0.00    06.90   642,02   555.09   103.44   1037,50                47.5          06   159.51        07   100.70         70
02091   CIORGEL 0101D0          114.14      0.00   114,14   002.64       0.00      0.00   617.05   607.05   176.50   1322.40               470.50        77   15951         90   100.70         76
C 2048   FAXINAL                 92.25      0.00    92,25   713.22       0.00      0,00   499,03   499,30   142.67   107.00                307.94        78   129.31         91    01.60        76
C 2060   NAMBORE                123.02      0.00   023.32   950.61       0.00    26.03   667.53   640.50   190.72   140,04                 465.24        73   155,00        01    97.90         60
C22066   PEABIRU                 821.00     0.00    02.04   634.00       0.00      0,00   443.06   443.06   126.02    95,11                465.24       105   155,00        122    97.90       100
C 2730   P1R6I D0 OIL            09.04      0.00    09.84   694.73       0.00      0.00   406,30   406.30   130.94   104.21                320.39       103   166.00       120   105.30        100
C 2798   SANTA MAR1946           79.70      0.00    79.70   616.52       0.00    65.30   431.57   066.27   123.00    92.40                 007.94       106   129.31        105    81.60       08
C 2404   S/JQAO 001001T         130.60      0.00   100.60  1010.50       0.00   105.04   707.35   602.01   202.10   151.50                 387.94        64   129.31        64    01.62         54
00ER0GE010 C' 00W80          102.39      0.06   101.53   705.00       0.00    44.10   549,56   505.42   157.02   117.76                 440,49        07   046.03        94    92.69         79
02808   99060                   040.70      0.00   140.70  1111.02       0.00      0.00   770,27   770.27   222.36   166,77                509.02        76   196.61         80   124.12        74
0 2019   0313000                 97.32      0.00    97.32   752.52       0.01    10.30   526.76   516.46   150.50   112.038                589.02       104   096.11        101   124.13       110
0 2798   BAHDEORANTES           100.00      0.00   100.00  1391.92       0.00    29.10   974.04   945.16   270.00   200,79                 509.02        62   096.61        71   124.12         59
OD2068   RIO-ERE                216.20      0.99   214.21  1656.42   167.06        0.02  1159,49   900.28   001.20   24B,46                797.79        Il   265.93         00   167.00        68
0272E   PALNEIRA                111.01      0.00   111,01   864,57       0.00      0.00   605.20   605.20   072.90   129,69                509.05        97   196.05        114   123.96        96
02600   91000980000D  SUL    263.00    14.96   240,35  1920,40   624.97    70.61  1044.20   640.66   304.00   200.06                       509.05        91   196,05         51   122.96        40
000060  6 '0' TOANS          160.73      2.02   165,91  1202.94   102.05    19.00   090.06   747.01   206.59   192.44                   624.22        84   2080.07       01   105.36         60
OE2818   ARAP009A0              206.22      0.00   206.22  2213.01   279.04        0,09  0549.01  1269.47   442.66   332,00               1056.53        80   352.10        00   222.00         6?
02709   000100                  296.10      7.20   200,98  2204.61       0.00    60,10  1564,20  1496.05   446.92   325.19                1174.62        79   391,54        00   247.10         74
02798    SORNELID P9000011    267.77        0,00   267.77  2070.61       0.00    24,29  1449.40  1425.14   414.12   010,59                1056.52        74   352.10        05   232.20         72
0E2093   FRANCISCO BELTRAO    169.49    45,10   124.29   961.07          0.00    73.74   67.3.1   599.57   192.37   144,20                1017.60       170   339,23        176   314.55       140
O 2730   TILEMAC  O 080        367.39    16,79   050.60  27111,10   532.90    03.96  1097.70  1200,04   542.22   406.67                  1179.62        92   091.54         72   247.10        61
OE2000   TOLEDO                 507.04    10,34   497.51  0047.11  1544.26    01,47  2692.90  1067.25   769.42   577.07                   1460.9        108   409,50         64   309.14        54
0VERAGE 6 'El 00080          015.02    10.24   002,00  2339~77   092.05    55,27  1637.04  1119.72   467.95   050.97                   1150.10        97   386.03        02   242.70         69
0008600 50 ATE TOAWS         100.12     2.47   105.65   016.93    62.99    23.00   571,05   405.70   162.39   122,54                    391.51        01   130.50        00    02.39         67
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. 03R00818 BY BRAZILIAN STATES AND MNONICIPALITIES IS SUBJECT TO 09000 TESTS DEFINING *INTRA-LIMIT' DEBT. THESE TESTS, MEASURED A3 A PERCENT OP PR13R YEAR RECEIPTS. A001
TOTAL CU8UL4010E OUTSTANDING 'INTRO-LIMIT 0000 - 70%) ANNUAL INCREASED B0000W180 - 201; ARD, ANNUAL 0000 0000120 - 152. EXCEFTIONS ARE CLASSIFIED AS 'EXTRN-LIMIT' AND I8JST BE
SUBMITTED TO THE FEDERAL S0NATE, VI0 THE CENTRAL 0090, FOR APPROVAL.  (SENATE RES1LUT0ON1862 OF 19751).  000 7088S 0N THE '1' AND 'E' CATEOORIES 4600 ENGAGED IN EXTRA-LIMIT
80800180 1099, 900). INTESE ADDITIONAL ARE ADDED TID 0010798018 I800-LIMIT DEBT TO CALCULATE 'NET DEBT CAPACITY' 18001.
2. THE THREE INTRO-LIMIT T0000 NAVE BEEN APPLIED TO 1981 RECEIPTS WI04600 ALLOWANCE FOR TNE INCREASED B0R00W180 CAPACITY AFFORDEB BY PROJECT GRANTS.
3. STATES AND WONICIPALITIES REPORT MONTHLY TO THE CENTRAL BANK W009 DETAILED SCHEDUtLES IF 000076NDIN0 DEBT. PROPOSED NEW DEBT, AND 0001 SERVICE. PRIOR YEAR RECEIPTS ARE 18DE001
MONTNLY BASED IN THE CURRENT ORTN PRICE. PRIOR YEAR INFLA3109 IS NOT CONSIDERED, 4080000. THUS. TAE VALUE 0000030R YEAR RECEIPTS AND THE DEBT 000008180 LIMITS ARE UNDERSTATED
IN REAL TERMS 09 00001 9069040E PRIOR 0000 RATE OF INFL_ATION.
4.  DEBT SERVICE IN THE PROPSED LOAN 1S CALCULATED OH A QUARTERLY ANNUITY BASIS ASSUMING GRACE 00T090IN0 TAROUGH YEAR THREE AND EVEN PAYMENTS 18 YEARS 4-10,  INTEREST IS ASSUMED U
THE BNN RATE FIR PARANA IF 6Z.



-55-
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL                      Page 1 of 3
PARANA MARKET TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
BANESTADO         Relekorio Anual, 1981
(1981 Annual Report)
Diario Oficial No. 958 of 06/06/81 - Instituicao da Secretaria de Estado
Extraordinaria para Assuntos de Desenvolvimento dos Municipios.
DER-PR            Anuario Estatistico de Trafico, 1981
(Traffic Statistics Annuary
Curitiba, 1982)
FAMEPAR           Dados Financeiros para Subsidiar o Projeto do Banco
Mundial
Basic Financial Data for Preparation of the World Bank
Project
(1980-1981-1982 Budget Summares of 99 Municipalities)
(1977-1981 Detailed Budget Information for 42
Municipalities)
Curitiba, December 1982 - 2 Volumes
FAMEPAR           Analise da Capacidade de Endividamento: Amostragem
Debt Capacity Analysis of 61 Municipalities
Curitiba, December 1982 - 2 Volumes.
FAMEPAR           Instrucoes para Operacionalizacao do Protocolo de Intengao
SEDM/SEPL/MUNICIPIOS
Instructions to make operational the Protocol of
Understandings SEDM/SEPL/MUNICIPALITIES.
FAMEPAR           Estudo Sobre as Finangas Publicas dos Municipios do Estado
do Parana.
Study on the Public Finance of the Municipalities of
Parana State, Curitiba, 1980.
FAMEPAR           Manual de Instrocoes para a Preparacao dos Perfis de
Cidades.
Instructions manual for the preparation of City Profiles
FAMEPAR           Perfis de Cidades
City Profiles (Monographies on Pirai do Sul, Porecatu,
Itauna do Sul, Vitorino, Uniflor, Miraselva, Rio Bom,
Pien, Sertaneja, Nova Santa Rosa, Marmeleiro, Manoel
Ribas, Santa Fe and Araruna.
FAMEPAR           Amostragem das Atividades do Setor Primario, Parana
Sample Survey of Primary Sector Activities, Parana
Curitiba, October 1982
FAMEPAR           Receita Orcamentaria (Desdobramento a Nivel Municipal)
Budgetary Receipts (Breakdown at Municipal Level)



-56-                   ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
FAMEPAR            Padronizacao, Codificagao e Interpretaqao das Rubricas
Orgamentarias.
Classification, coding and interpretation of budgetary
items, Curitiba, June 1979
FAMEPAR           Municipios do Parana:  Dados e Informaqoes Uteis
Parana Municipalities: Useful Data and informations
Curitiba, April 1982
FIBGE              Divisao do Brasil em Micro-Regioes Homogeneas
Division of Brazil in Homogeous Micro-Regions
Rio de Janeiro, 1970
IPARDES            Parana:  Economia e Sociedade
Parana: Economy and Society
Curitiba, February 1982
IPARDES           Relatorio de Atividades do Primeiro Semestre de 1982
Report on Activities of the first semester 1982
Curitiba, June 1982.
IPARDES           Participagao do Setor Publico na Economia Paranaense
Participation of the Public Sector in Parana Economy
Two volumes, Curitiba, January 1980
IPARDES           Dinamica Espacial e Sectorial da Forca de Trabalho no
Parana
Spatial and Sectoral Dynamics of the Workforce in Parana
Curitiba, December '179
IPARDES           Renda Interna do Parana por Micro-Regioes Homogeneas e
Municipalidades Selecionadas, 1980
Internal Income of Parana kby Micregions and selected
municipalities,
Curitiba, August, 1982
IPARDES           Renda Interna do Parana
Internal Income of Parana
Curitiba, November 1981
IPARDES           Boletins de Analise Conjuntural 1981-1982
Contingency Analysis Bullettins:  various issues 1981-1982
containing essays on specific topics.
Ministerio aa EazendA - Bcl.etim do ICM, Circulacao restrita
Brazil, July 1982
r d               Programa de Apoio para Centros Urb .aos Pequenos
Su-port Program for the Smaller Urban Centers
Prel,.llnary Ver, on (in English)
GuriLlba, July 1981
SEDM              Programa de Apoio para Centros Urbanos Pequenos
Support Program for the Smaller Urban Centers
Report (in English
(Curitiba, July 1982)



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
SEDM              Obras:  Metodos de Execucao
Works - Methods of Execution
SEFI              Balanco Orcamentario, 1980
(1980 Budget Balance)
SEFI             Economia Paranaense 1974-1980 - Estatistica Economica
Financeira por Municipalidade, Micro-regioes e Estado
para 1974-80.
Microregions and State for 1974-1980
SEFI             Projeto CIATA - Calculo e Lancamento dos Tributos
CIATA Project - Calculation and Establishement of Charges
SEFI              Projeto CIATA  - Descricao Geral
CIATA Project, General Description
SEFI             Projeto CIATA - Codigo de Posturas e Outros
CIATA Project - Procedural Manuals
1 volume for each city categhory (A, B, C, D, E)
SEFI             Projeto CIATA - Codigo Tributario Municipal
Ciata Project - Municipal Tax Manual
SEPL             Desagregacao Espacial do Programa Anual Orcamentario para
1982.
Spatial Disaggregation of 1982 Planned State Investments
by Municipalities and Sector Agencies
Curitiba, October 1982
SEPL             Parana Programa Orcamentario para os anos de 1979, 1980,
1981, 1982, 1983 State Budget Programs for years 1979,
1980, 1981, 1982, 1983.
SEPL              Perfil Geo-Economico do Estado do Parana, 1980
Geo-Economic Profile of Parana State, 1980
Curitiba, February, 1980
IBRD              Brazil: Parana Market Towns Improvement Project
(SAR Supplementary Volume, IBRD 4403a-BR, May, 1983.
Annex A:  Main Subregions
Annex B:  Population Projection and Resource Allocation
Annex C:  Subprojects Selection Criteria
Annex D:  Reference List of Subproject Types
Annex E:  Five Market Towns Profiles
Annex F:  Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex G:  Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures
Annex H:  Draft Participation Contract
Annex I:  Listing of Municipalities
Annex J:  Computer Programs






4t-  j,                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA Z L
'IpE,ECC'So                                       O~           .CCCC                                                                                                        PARANA               MARKET     TOW NS
LI,IT  ACMC                                            ILCAAMI'MCACC
M A T 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NCA5.IAAMA 1
CCCC/CCCTC  AC CCACAC>CC  CCCI)                             AC                                                                                       ~IMPROVEMENT  PROJECT
MATO         -                                        - CA                   tOCADO                Cit   ~    ~        CE MACAC             'NCCCCCflA ~rC       ~       CC~CC\                                    1980   SETTLEMENT   PATTERN
GROSSO 0                                                                                                 'CAELCOAC  ICaCCA                  A,  ~
(2CC  CCM.  C"CCAMMC    ANCICA                                                                                   AL{AAAC  CN AC~AI    CCA& ~ '
IAI                                                                                                                                                            R~~~~~~~~~~~~C4rAAC  URAL POPULATION Iper sq.k-]
gAC  -CC        C MCA                CC\A  C      >ACC         FCyCN             CC  CA    7     CCC        C                          P W ~ C0             .MW         C ''C                                        MC           CM-       45
w  ~~~~L  w                             ALl~~~C  ''                                                           AMC t_\V                                C I CC20
CACICAC      5C            ...T.AOA                                                                                                                                                                     5 AA  CCCAC      CCAJIC  (020~' C~
MAC                                                                                                            5'AW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2L 
4~9  )C    '           ,CCCACCM                                          1'-  CA          C    C'IDI                                                 7
-A-111          'C                                                                                                                                                                                      25CCA
CAMAC'   -            A               CC.~~~~~A''I)                                       C"      ARA CPOULAT                                                                                                                               10001CMTE   T 0W000
* ~~~~~~~QC     CACCAOCC~~~~~~~~~~~evN,%                                                                                        ;A
I A      jA5C                         /                            %M                                                              L O C A   -~[                                                                                     A   C R A 2 0
0C~~  C  MICA  CUSCAC  OCACCICAC  C   -  C  '  CRACOCOC  5  '9CC&CC  CASIO               C        CC\                                            CCCCCCM    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            /C       100,001   IA   200,000       PEACe   PCM   MCI1 20,00
>-  AMOCACA              CCC4CA'CCCC~~~~'E-                                                                           l
MACCC          I C~-~  '          C5                           ACCAMMO                   C5'C'PCmC               $ICLess CtCanACACA 
CA CAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NCM       'C            I~~~~t O  C0           '( 9C                        CAC'   C A                                  C A C                                        cC                                                                                      C .
2CA  CCCC iCICOM    C  CoCA  C        C                                              EACECAM~~~~~~~~~~~ CCC                                         C                          CCC~~~~~RAMCt-R..d
CC~~~  /  CCC  C(CCCE  CC.:  CCC'C  /5'                                         jC                                      C)C,.,C'C    SIC                                                     5      CCC   CCI'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o.d.y R.d
CCC   /  C                                   ''M A C   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                          ptR.d
C d 1 '  A                                                                                       5         >           CCC    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICnC C C          AMMIC    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, - .q. .lB..  
'CACCACA.   ,                                        ' C              I                                                                                                        C/C~ 
CbS  C         CC           '                      C               C"\                                            '                              I                                                                    C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4StneB- .-
D                                                        c,--  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CA      CCAC AwnX~C
CCMCAC     IA.O   L~T       ~             CC'n''UCCC C,C D
45             CC$CCNC~)CA1                                                                             'C':. 
of~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C                                                      C'A,,,CCCCAC 
1AC CCJCCA  '                                                                                                                                   CCMECA                    MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~JMCCC       7C        -7'~~~~~
V~~CPCCCC  CACA AMA  ~ ~ ~ ~ CjCAAMAMCM[                                                     '       C         "'C>-'>   -      \    XJACCCCA                        CC'                C ~~~~~~~~SWAA 'W
Al fl,                                                                                                                                                                     rI~~~~C' C~ fi  <CC
C  ACAC  C~C%5ICAC  '7C.C                              C,~C'            A        C1CCCC.C~CCCCCAC                                     C                        C CIMCACIC            C   CCAMCC~CCLACCAAI C,M C    CC
C  C  I- C M 5'                                                                                           I       I- A                      CACCCMCCAMC      )LC)MCCCC   j' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  B   I  F "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
F;l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C  CC                                                                                                  CICC         CpC>                               /k CA                                         '~iC      )'
C                1      Ce'C             CACCAA                                                    5"CL                                 ACMCr                  gMCC              CCNC"C              f      '      ACAA"2                     C
CtC                                                                                                                                                                                             1<$-r to 
'AC                                     1/                              C                       C-CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII1
'CC   127             k"                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         /                                  A                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~` -R'') 
'C '           MWIACCAM'                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )A CC  OtACIAM  CC x-~ AC~A      CCCC CC 
CCC ~AAA-C'C                                                                                                                             C              AC                                     C~CC         CCCC~                                ,
- I   '    C RCA0C                     P                     '        CC                                      V                      C               i                                               ACC
7~~~~~ACC                        /IC )CCAAAEOCCA
___                                                                                                                                                                                           _______                      CCCj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IW 
o -FIll  WI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMCC
A>  MACC CC         C                                   C\MMCMI  'C  C   '                                         A IC
A    N    T    A                CC IC  A   CCCIA       C                                                           C  
.R  MCC __   C4CCCSCCAA  CCC'MCIC                                            ICCIA)CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC                                                  .CCN,~,r                                   C~C       OI5'-
.tC>C X          'C   C~~~~5                                                                7'                                                      _______________                                     N-- .



