Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1944-IN
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
MADRAS URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 24, 1977
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 12, 1977)
Rs  1.00            =          Paise 100
US$1.00                        Rs 8.91
Rs 1.00            =           US$0.1122
Rs 1 million                   US$112,200
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at US$1
td Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GTN     =      Government of Tamil Nadu
MMDA           Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
ICICI          Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India
IDBI    =      Industrial Development Bank of India
TNHB           Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB   =      Tamil Nadu Slumd Clearance Board
SIDCO   =      Small Industries Development Corporation
TNHDC   =      Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation
DSW     =      Department of Social Welfare
TWAD    =      Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage Board
MC      =      Madras Corporation
DHRW    =      Department of.Highways & Rural Works
PTC     =      Pallavan Transport Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL UŽE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$24.0 million on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a project to provide improved urban ser-
vices and employment opportunities for the poor in the Madras metropolitan
area, and to strengthen metropolitan planning and investment programming and
budgeting. The proceeds of the credit would be channelled to the Government
of Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and
arrangements for the financing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since Independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
1/   Parts I and TI of this report are identical to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Kerala Agricultural Development
(Report No. P-1953-IN), dated February 3, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and
possibly even decline. Although national income has increased in most years,
there has been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast
masses of the urban-and rural population. In recent years, the Government
has initiated a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the
lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200
million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is the basis for an upturn in the growth rate of the
economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors have been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in 1975/76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the
previous record of 1970/71 by 8%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton alss reached
new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In
1976/77 a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of
foodgrains. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased.   Electricity generation and domestic pro_uct7.on
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76 and by
a further 15% in the first eight months of 1976/77. Finally, the increased
supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with
the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual
stop to inflation. From April 1975 to March 1976 the Wholesale Price Index
fell by 8.1%. Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11.0%,
it was still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.
8.        On the balance of payments front there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world



trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in 1975/76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in 1976/77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports
was stabilized in 1975/76 (although there is likely to be a rise in 1976/77),
and steel imports have been progressively reduced in 1975/76 and 1976/77 as
a result of increased domestic production. Finally, increased production
and lowered world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply.
As a result of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in 1975/76 and
the trade deficit fell by almost $100 million. Development so far in 1976/77
suggest a more dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. More-
over, since net aid rose 49% in 1975/76 and India received substantial in-
flows of private remittances during the past one and a half years, reserves
rose by almost $800 million in 1975/76, and are continuing to rise at a com-
parable rate in 1976/77. These reserves give India added flexibility in
adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the future.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposed a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduced new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of



-4-
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was characterized by shortages even
before the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil
prices, coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power
shortages - caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor
monsoons - led to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of
existing facilities and to a much higher priority for investments in the
energy sector. The effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are
now starting to be felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each
of the last two years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and
restrictions have been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and
natural gas have improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High
field. Crude production from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in
1976/77 and to reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this
basis, petroleum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as
increased crude production and expanded refinery output more than offset
increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of over 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%



in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports in 1975/76. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials) and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$785 million has been
repaid, and US$1,651 million was still undisbursed as of December 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of December 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.0 million, US$25.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of December 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant.   Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspegt of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years.  Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth, remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components continues to be an important
element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
December 31, 1976, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$988 mil-
lion, of which US$510 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$478 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



- 7 -
PART III - TAMIL NADU AlID MADRAS
22.       Tamil Nadu, with a population of 45 million in 1976, is the
third most densely populated state in India and the second most urbanized
state (30% urban population). Mladras, the capital of Tamil Nadu, is the
fourth largest city in India and the largest in the four-state Southern
Region.
23.       Tamil Nadu is characterized by a relatively small agricultural
sector and a relatively large manufacturing sector. Trade is also important,
mainly reflecting the role of Madras as the commercial center of South India.
In agriculture the state has the third highest total rice production of the
Indian states and has achieved the highest rice yield per hectare, almost
twice the national average. Tamil Nadu lacks natural resources for its
manufacturing sector, which is characterized by the predominance of small
establishments of recent origin, compared to the leading states in the sector,
Maharashtra and West Bengal. Mlanufactures of textiles, electrical machinery
and transport equipment are of major importance.
24.       Given its high urbanization rate, Tamil Nadu scores lower than
expected in terms of per capita income. Average per capita income in the
state is no higher than the national average. At the same time, its record
on social development is impressive. It has the second highest literacy rate
among the states (40% in 1971, versus the Indian average of 29%) and its
infant mortality rate of 55 per 1,000 live births in 1971 is less than half
the national average.
25.       The present Madras metropolitan area population is estimated at
about 4.4 million growing by over 200,000 annually. Expansion of the manu-
facturing sector is a major reason behind the rapid population growth in
Madras over the past 25 years. A large number of public sector undertakings
have been located in Madras, and many private sector companies have also
been attracted to Madras. The Port of Madras has been expanded to an annual
capacity of about 7.0 million tons of throughput. A fisheries port is being
built to accommodate about 150 trawlers and 500 smaller boats. Most major
banks and stock companies of South India have located their head offices in
Madras. Still, most employment is in smaller establishments to which the
Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) is giving particular attention and support.
New manufacturing establishments are predominantly being located north and
west of the city center, while the expansion of trade and commerce is taking
place in the center itself and towards the south.
26.       Annual per capita income in the Madras metropolitan area in 1970-
71 averaged Rs 855 (US$95) compared with the average of Rs 624 (US$69) for
the state as a whole. It was, however, considerably less than the per
capita income in many other metropolitan areas in India. About 56% of the
total income is derived from the tertiary sector and 39% from the secondary
sector. Unemployment statistics are unreliable but, according to the 1971
census, the work force participation rate in the Madras area was only about
28%, versus 37% in Bombay and 33% in Calcutta.



- 9 -
development of the metropolitan area. One of the members serves as chief
executive officer. MMDA employs a staff of about 270, including 35 planners,
architects and engineers.
32.       MMDA's activities so far have been focused on physical planning and
land use control. It has recently updated the master plan for the area and
is involved in detailed area planning and in planning and development of new
townships in the metropolitan area. It is beginning to reorient its activi-
ties toward a more comprehensive approach to urban planning, with increased
emphasis on social and economic development. In addition, MMDA is attempting
to perform an investment programming and budgeting function for the Madras
area and is compiling overall estimates of public investments in key sectors
by different agencies; this is expected to form che basis for a public invest-
ment strategy for the area. To help implement these responsibilities, a
two-year work program has been agreed by MMDA and IDA, and a reorganization
of the Authority is underway. In addition, the proposed project would provide
technical assistance to MMDA, including long-term advisors, short-term consul-
tants' services and training of staff.
33.       Other Bank Group lending which has benefitted Madras and Tamil Nadu
includes Loan 199-IN for the Port of Madras, Credit 572-IN for rural electri-
fication, and Loan 416-IN and Credits 377-IN and 604-IN for power transmission.
Lending for railways has had a favorable impact on both the Madras suburban
railway system and on the two large manufacturing units of Indian Railways
located in the area. The industrial sector has also benefitted from Bank Group
lending to ICICI and IDBI as well as for industrial imports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in May 1976. A report entitled "Appraisal of Madras Urban Development Project"
(No. 1320a-IN, dated February 15, 1977) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1977.
The Government of India was represented by Messrs. Pande (Ministry of Finance)
and Chaudhuri (Ministry of Works and Housing), the Government of Tamil Nadu by
Messrs. Karthikeyan (Chief Secretary), Guhan (Commissioner and Secretary of
Finance) and Mani (Commissioner and Secretary of Housing), and the Madras
Metropolitan Development Authority by Mr. Vaz (Member Secretary). Attached
as Annex III is a Credit and project summary.
Project Description
35.       The proposed project is designed to develop and promote, over the
period April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1981, low-cost solutions to the problems
of providing improved services to the urban poor in the Madras metropolitan
area, and to strengthen metropolitan planning and investment programming and
budgeting. The following four components, which account for about 40% of the



- 10 -
project cost, are designed directly to benefit low-income areas located north
and west of the city center 1/:
(a) Sites and Services (US$7.8 million) - development of about
175 ha of land at three sites, including the preparation
and servicing with roads, drainage and individual water
supply and sewerage connections of about 13,500 plots of
varying sizes 2/ (serving a total population of about 74,000
persons); the construction of about 9,800 core housing units
(partially completed houses which can be completed and/or
expanded by the owners); preparation and servicing of about
9.5 ha of commercial and 11.4 ha of industrial land; provi-
sion of building materials for self-help completion of the
core housing units; construction on each of the three sites
of community facilities (schools, clinic/health center,
community hall).
(b) Slum Improvement (US$4.9 million) - provision of basic
infrastructure improvements (e.g., new and improved roads,
footpaths, drainage, water supply, public latrines and
washing facilities, and community facilities such as
schools) in 85 slums with a population of about 23,000
families (126,500 persons); and the provision of open
serviced plots of various sizes in relatively low-density
slums to enable about 7,500 of the poorest families in
Madras (41,250 persons) to erect basic shelters with
self-help.
(c) Small-Scale and Cottage Industry (US$2.4 million) - pro-
vision of about 120 plots with worksheds and of loans for
the purchase of machinery and equipment for businesses
expected to employ a total of about 4,000 persons at the
three sites and services project areas; and construction
of about 100 training-cum-worksheds, for one-year train-
ing of about 50 persons at each, to be followed by pro-
duction under cooperative arrangements, which (together
with the provision of the necessary equipment) is expected
to create about 5,000 jobs in the homes of the 44,000
households living in the sites and services and slum
improvement project areas.
1/   Figures in parenthesis are total estimated cost of each component,
excluding contingencies, not amounts allocated under the proposed
credit.
2
2/   Over 70% of these plots would be less th-an 47 m



- 11 -
(d) Maternal and Child Health (US$0.7 million) - training,
equipment, buildings and recurring expenditures during
the three-year project period to provide supplementary
nutrition, health examinations and immunizations to an
estimated 17,000 children under six years old and some
7,000 expectant and nursing mothers, and health, nutrition
and family planning education and functional literacy
training to about 20,000 adult women from the beneficiary
households in the sites and services and slum improvement
project areas.
The four remaining components are designed to meet pressing needs of the
Madras area by eliminating bottlenecks in the water supply and transport
sectors and by strengthening metropolitan planning:
(e) Water Supply and Sewerage (US$9.0 million) - construction
or rehabilitation of specific works which are consistent
with the long-term recommendations of the UNDP/WHO study
(see para 27 above) and which are needed to bring early
relief to areas with inadequate water supply, particularly
slum areas and others relying on public standpipes. Although
Bank staff are very familiar with the water supply situation
in MIadras, and a large number of sub-projects are fully
prepared, the UNDP/WHO study will help to ensure that this
component is consistent with the long-term strategy for
sectoral development. Accordingly, GTN has agreed that the
final selection of the works to be undertaken, the final
engineering design of such works, and the arrangement for
their implementation will all be agreed to by IDA, follow-
ing the submission of an interim UNDP/WHO report (Section
2.11 of Project Agreement). An IDA follow-up mission is
scheduled for April/May 1977. Agreement on these matters
would be a condition of disbursement for this component
(paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to Development Credit Agreement).
The state of readiness of the sub-projects and the timing
of the review will help to ensure that this approach will
not delay overall project implementation or disbursements.
(f) Road and Traffic Improvements (US$7.7 million) - con-
struction of about 12 km of the Inner Ring Road linking
important areas of new industrial development with major
residential developments, and various other road traffic
'improvements (e.g., pedestrian subways, minor bridges for
river and canal crossings, grade separation at two road/
rail intersections, street lighting at 24 intersections,
and about 200 km of footpaths and 50 km of cycle tracks)
designed to benefit primarily pedestrians, cyclists and bus
riders, who together undertake about 84% of all trips in
the metropolitan area.



- 12 -
(g) Bus Transport (US$5.9 million) - replacement of some
285 over-aged buses; construction of three depots for
bus repairs and servicing, of eight bus terminals and of
400 passenger shelters; and implementation of various
measures to reduce peak demand and to improve fleet utili-
zation (see para 48 below).
(h) Technical Assistance (US$0.8 million) - provision of
five advisors for two years and various short-term
consultants' services, training of staff, aerial photog-
raphy services and related equipment, to assist I-MDA
in development planning, capital programming, and project
monitoring and evaluation; and the provision of consultants'
services required by the Madras Corporation.
Project Implementation
36.       GTN has designated MMDA as its representative for coordinating the
implementation of the project (Section 2.01 (b) of Project Agreement). The
individual project components would be executed by the following agencies:
(a)  Sites and Services        Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB)
(b)  Slum Improvement          Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB)
(c)  Small-Scale Industry      Small Industries Development Corp. (SIDCO)
Cottage Industry          Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development
Corp. (T.NHDC)
(d)  Maternal-Child Health     Department of Social Welfare (DSW)
(e)  Water Supply & Sewerage   Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage
Board (TWAD) and Madras Corporation (MC)
(f)  Roads & Traffic           Department of Highways &
Improvements              Rural Works (DHRW), Madras
Corporation (MC) and Police
Department
(g)  Bus Transport             Metropolitan Wing of
Pallavan Transport Corp. (PTC)
(h)  Technical Assistance      Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority (MMDA)



-13 -
With agreed increases in staff, these agencies all have the necessary capa-
bility to carry out their obligations under the proposed project. Moreover,
a number of steps have been agreed with a view to improving their financial
and administrative situation (see paras 49 and 50 below). The project repre-
sents about 50% of the public investments planned for the key sectors in the
aetropolitan area over the three-year project period. The project involves
no relocation of families, except in slum improvement areas, where less than
4% of the total number of families will have to be relocated to make room for
infrastructure facilities. To the limited extent that such relocation will be
necessary, families will be resettled, as part of the project, in close proxi-
mity to their present locations. GTN has agreed to make satisfactory arrange-
ments to assist in relocating anyone who is required to move as a result of
project implementation (Section 3.04 of Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
37.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$52.0
million equivalent, of which about US$8.0 million represents direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs. This estimate includes physical contin-
gencies of 10% for all items except for buses and for land; it also includes
price contingencies of 8% per annum for equipment and 12% per annum for civil
works.
38.       The proposed credit would finance about 50% of the project cost
excluding taxes and duties (US$2.9 million) and expenditures on bus bodies
(US$1.1 million), which would not be procured through competitive bidding (see
para 41 below). Funds equivalent to the credit proceeds, together with the
balance of the financing required, would be made available in the form of loans
and grants from the Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) to the various implementing
agencies.
39.       The terms of GTN loans, which are consistent with prevailing practice,
would be as follows: (i) to the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
and the MIadras Corporation (US$12.4 million, of which 50% loan and 50% grant)
for the water supply and sewerage component, and to the Madras Corporation
(US$5.0 million) for footpaths, cycle tracks and road improvements, for 20 years,
including 3 years' grace, at 11% interest; and (ii) to PTC for the bus trans-
port component (US$7.3 million), for 15 years, including 1 year's grace, at
10.5% interest. Funds would be made available to the Tamil Nadu Housing and
Slum Clearance Boards (US$10.0 million and US$6.3 million, respectively, for
the sites and services and slum improvement components) on a grant basis to
permit tiese agencies to set up revolving funds from cost recoveries (see
paras 43 and 44 below) to finance continuing sites and services and slum
improvement programs 1/; tc MMDA (US$1.0 million) for technical assistance, on
a grant basis; and to the Department of Social Welfare (US$0.9 million) for
the maternal and child health component and to the Department of Highways and
1/   Current GTN practice is to give loans to the Housing Board and grants to
the Slum Clearance Board.



- 14 -
Rural Works (US$4.7 million) and the Police Department (US$0.4 million) for
their parts of the road and traffic improvement component, as direct GTN
departmental expenditures. The cost of vocational training for the cottage
industry component (US$0.6 million) would be provided as a grant to the Tamil
Nadu lHandicrafts Development Corporation (TNHDC), and the cost of production
centers and equipment for cottage industries would be recovered from TNHDC at
11% over 15 years, including one year's grace. Loans for the small-scale
industry component (US$2.1 million) would be made to prospective entrepreneurs
through the Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) for nine years at
11%, which includes a 2.5% spread to cover SIDCO's costs of administration.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.       Procurement of equipment with an estimated total value of US$5.0
million (bus chassis and water supply equipment, such as pumps, water treat-
ment equipment and steel pipes) would be on the basis of international bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Indian suppliers competing under interna-
tional competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the
current rate of import duty, whichever is less.
41.       Contracts for all civil works, with an estimated total value of
US$33.0 million -- for sites, and services, slum improvement, water supply
and sewerage, construction and improvement of roads, footpaths, cycle tracks
and minor bridges, worksheds for small businesses, child welfare centers,
bus depots, bus terminals and passenger shelters -- will be individually
small and scattered. About 200 individual contracts, ranging in value from
US$10,000 to US$1.0 million, with the bulk of the contracts below US$100,000,
will be awarded over the three-year project period. Although civil works
contracts in the same area will be combined as far as practical, even then
only two contracts are expected to have a value of about US$1.0 million each.
Moreover, eight different agencies will be responsible for works in their
respective sectors, and construction of several works will require implemen-
tation schedules that are carefully balanced locationally and over time.
These works are not likely to attract any foreign contractors, particularly
as the domestic contracting industry is well developed and mobilized, executing
similar works in the metropolitan area. These civil works contracts, together
with contracts totalling US$4.5 million for self-help building materials, the
remainder of equipment and supplies for water supply and sewerage, traffic
engineering and control equipment, and medical supplies will be procured under
GTN procedures of local competitive bidding, acceptable to IDA.    The materials
and equipment contracts would be either of small sizes and unattractive to
foreign suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitve bidding by
reasons of high transportation costs. Bus bodies will be built by a workshop
of the Pallavan Transport Corporation, and they would not be financed under
the proposed credit. The workshop, which has about 30 years' experience
of bus body construction, is highly competitive and produces about 400 bodies
annually for Pallavan Transport as well as for other Indian bus companies.
42.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against
100% of the cost of goods procured through international competitive bidding,



- 14 -
Rural Works (US$4.7 million) and the Police Department (US$0.4 million) for
their parts of the road and traffic improvement component, as direct GTN
departmental expenditures. The cost of vocational training for the cottage
industry component (US$0.6 million) would be provided as a grant to the Tamil
Nadu lHandicrafts Development Corporation (TNHDC), and the cost of production
centers and equipment for cottage industries would be recovered from TNHDC at
11% over 15 years, including one year's grace. Loans for the small-scale
industry component (US$2.1 million) would be made to prospective entrepreneurs
through the Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) for nine years at
11%, which includes a 2.5% spread to cover SIDCO's costs of administration.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.       Procurement of equipment with an estimated total value of US$5.0
million (bus chassis and water supply equipment, such as pumps, water treat-
ment equipment and steel pipes) would be on the basis of international bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Indian suppliers competing under interna-
tional competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the
current rate of import duty, whichever is less.
41.       Contracts for all civil works, with an estimated total value of
US$33.0 million -- for sites, and services, slum improvement, water supply
and sewerage, construction and improvement of roads, footpaths, cycle tracks
and minor bridges, worksheds for small businesses, child welfare centers,
bus depots, bus terminals and passenger shelters -- will be individually
small and scattered. About 200 individual contracts, ranging in value from
US$10,000 to US$1.0 million, with the bulk of the contracts below US$100,000,
will be awarded over the three-year project period. Although civil works
contracts in the same area will be combined as far as practical, even then
only two contracts are expected to have a value of about US$1.0 million each.
Moreover, eight different agencies will be responsible for works in their
respective sectors, and construction of several works will require implemen-
tation schedules that are carefully balanced locationally and over time.
These works are not likely to attract any foreign contractors, particularly
as the domestic contracting industry is well developed and mobilized, executing
similar works in the metropolitan area. These civil works contracts, together
with contracts totalling US$4.5 million for self-help building materials, the
remainder of equipment and supplies for water supply and sewerage, traffic
engineering and control equipment, and medical supplies will be procured under
GTN procedures of local competitive bidding, acceptable to IDA.    The materials
and equipment contracts would be either of small sizes and unattractive to
foreign suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitve bidding by
reasons of high transportation costs. Bus bodies will be built by a workshop
of the Pallavan Transport Corporation, and they would not be financed under
the proposed credit. The workshop, which has about 30 years' experience
of bus body construction, is highly competitive and produces about 400 bodies
annually for Pallavan Transport as well as for other Indian bus companies.
42.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against
100% of the cost of goods procured through international competitive bidding,



- 14 -
Rural Works (US$4.7 million) and the Police Department (US$0.4 million) for
their parts of the road and traffic improvement component, as direct GTN
departmental expenditures. The cost of vocational training for the cottage
industry component (US$0.6 million) would be provided as a grant to the Tamil
Nadu lHandicrafts Development Corporation (TNHDC), and the cost of production
centers and equipment for cottage industries would be recovered from TNHDC at
11% over 15 years, including one year's grace. Loans for the small-scale
industry component (US$2.1 million) would be made to prospective entrepreneurs
through the Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) for nine years at
11%, which includes a 2.5% spread to cover SIDCO's costs of administration.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.       Procurement of equipment with an estimated total value of US$5.0
million (bus chassis and water supply equipment, such as pumps, water treat-
ment equipment and steel pipes) would be on the basis of international bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Indian suppliers competing under interna-
tional competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the
current rate of import duty, whichever is less.
41.       Contracts for all civil works, with an estimated total value of
US$33.0 million -- for sites, and services, slum improvement, water supply
and sewerage, construction and improvement of roads, footpaths, cycle tracks
and minor bridges, worksheds for small businesses, child welfare centers,
bus depots, bus terminals and passenger shelters -- will be individually
small and scattered. About 200 individual contracts, ranging in value from
US$10,000 to US$1.0 million, with the bulk of the contracts below US$100,000,
will be awarded over the three-year project period. Although civil works
contracts in the same area will be combined as far as practical, even then
only two contracts are expected to have a value of about US$1.0 million each.
Moreover, eight different agencies will be responsible for works in their
respective sectors, and construction of several works will require implemen-
tation schedules that are carefully balanced locationally and over time.
These works are not likely to attract any foreign contractors, particularly
as the domestic contracting industry is well developed and mobilized, executing
similar works in the metropolitan area. These civil works contracts, together
with contracts totalling US$4.5 million for self-help building materials, the
remainder of equipment and supplies for water supply and sewerage, traffic
engineering and control equipment, and medical supplies will be procured under
GTN procedures of local competitive bidding, acceptable to IDA.    The materials
and equipment contracts would be either of small sizes and unattractive to
foreign suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitve bidding by
reasons of high transportation costs. Bus bodies will be built by a workshop
of the Pallavan Transport Corporation, and they would not be financed under
the proposed credit. The workshop, which has about 30 years' experience
of bus body construction, is highly competitive and produces about 400 bodies
annually for Pallavan Transport as well as for other Indian bus companies.
42.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against
100% of the cost of goods procured through international competitive bidding,



- 17 -
of the work program is to prepare by June 30, 1978 a program for improving
all of Madras' slums (see para 44 above). GTN has agreed to establish by
July 1, 1977, a traffic engineering unit in DHRW and a traffic management unit
in the Police Department (Section 2.13 of Project Agreement). The Madras
Corporation has agreed to review by December 31, 1977, its road maintenance
organization to ensure that uniform and satisfactory maintenance standards
are applied and to establish by July 1, 1977, a new traffic engineering unit
with responsibility for improvement and construction of footpaths and cycle
tracks (Section 2.12 of Project Agreement). In addition, GTN has agreed to a
number of measures to improve the Corporation's financial situation, including
(a) the establishment by July 1, 1977, of a Financial Management Department
headed by a Financial Advisor who would inter alia be responsible for the
revisioi of the Corporation's accounting syster. by April 1, 1978, to reflect
more accurately the cost, including depreciation, of its different services;
(b) an increase in the Corporation's self-generated revenues (excluding water
supply and sewerage taxes and charges) by a minimum of 8% annually over the
project period, over and above revenue increases achieved through the regular
revision of property values; and (c) the maintenance of the debt service of
the Corporation in any year at not more than 20% of its self-generated revenues
which is approximately the 1976/77 level (excluding water supply and sewerage
debts and revenues) (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement). The audits of the
accounts of the Madras Corporation will be brought up to date in accordance
with an agreed schedule (Section 4.01 of Project Agreement).
50.       MMDA will establish a project monitoring and evaluation system
(Section 3.03 of Project Agreement); each agency will maintain separate proj-
ect accounts, and MMDA will maintain consolidated project accounts (Section
4.01 of Project Agreement). MMDA will submit to IDA quarterly progress re-
ports on the project (Section 2.01(c) of Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The economic rate of return for the proposed project is estimated
at about 21% on the average for those components with quantifiable benefits
(accounting for about 55% of total project cost). The rates of return for the
individual components are: 15% for sites and services (total cost US$10.4
million); 18% for slum improvement (total cost US$6.7 million); 28% for road
and traffic improvements (total cost US$10.1 million); and 39% for the bus
improvement program (total cost US$7.3 million). Many vital steps are being
taken under the proposed project to initiate-development programs that are
financially sustainable and responsive to the needs of Madras' low-income
population. By shifting the emphasis from costly slum clearance (US$1,100 per
household) to low-cost slum improvement (US$145 per household), the growth in
the population living in unimproved slums in Madras would be halted during the
project period and all slum areas would be improved by 1985. In the housing
sector, the project provides shelter and services affordable by households at
the 10th percentile on the Madras income distribution. Housing unit costs have
been reduced by about 75%, compared to present programs, through more efficient
designs and through reliance on self-help housing construction. Low-cost job



- 18 -
creation and health, nutrition and family planning services form part of the
slum improvement and sites and services programs. The transport components
are designed to benefit mainly pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers. In
the water supply and sewerage sectors, the project will prevent a further
deterioration in the already critical situation by providing short-term phy-
sical improvements at low cost. In each sector, the project includes specific
steps to ensure that future revenues raised from beneficiaries are sufficient
to allow proper operation, maintenance and replacement of facilities.
52.       The only major risk to the project relates to the dependence of
MMfDA on strong support from Government if the long-term objectives of the
project are to be fulfilled. The specific assurances received from GTN with
regard to MMDA's role and responsibilities under the project and the agree-
ments reached on a detailed two-year work program for MMDA and on terms of
reference for the preparation of a long-term slum improvement program attest
to the strength of GTN's support. Continuation of this support is essential.
With regard to specific project components, certain risks exist, particularly
in the small business components. Although the demand for plots and work
sheds under the small industry component is strong, with more than 300 appli-
cations already received for the 120 plots, and full occupancy therefore is
expected, the viability of the small enterprises to be located on these plots
remains to be established. Also, default rates may be higher and extension
services costlier than now envisaged, so that the 2.5% spread in interest
rates (para 39) may prove insufficient. In cottage industry, it is uncertain
how successful the proposed cooperatives will be. In view of the desirability
of creating productive employment through the development of small-scale
and cottage industries, it is believed that this risk is justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
state of Tamil Nadu, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed development credit are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
55.       A special condition of disbursement for the water supply and sewer-
age component is that the final proposals for the composition and implementa-
tion of investments to be undertaken by TWAD and MC be agreed upon by the Asso-
ciation (para 4 of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
February 24, 1977



ANNEX I
Page I
TTmrk *      -- 8O^T IjIICTOM mTA 8el
LANC AREA (THOU KMZ-
---------------                               INOIA                             REFERENCE COUNTS    4 (19701
TOTAL     3280.5                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     178IZ'                    1960      1970   ESTIMATE         INDONESIA     PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL*
-- _----_------ ---  - ---------   -------_-----  ------- -_-- _  --- - ------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    70.0      110.0      Io0.0             110.0      230.0      540.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_ _----_-_-- --- ---_---_-_------
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLIONI         429.0       542.7     609.6             116. 3      36.9       92.8
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      131.0      165.0     186.0              61.0      123.0       11.0
PER SC. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       245.o      290.0     3t9.0 4&          1405.0     279.0       66.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND       43.2       42.7       39.9              45.9       44.2       38.4
CRUCE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND        23.9      18.8       15.7              20.6       13.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)      139.0A        ..   120-140.0 .b                     80.0      110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 1YRSI      141.7      47.2      449.5              45.o       55.6       59.7
GRCSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2        2.9        2.8               3.2        3.3        2.6
POPULATION GROwTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                1.8        2.4        2.4               2.0        3.0        2.9
URbAN                                2.5 b      3.2        3.1               3.7 /a     4.0        5.0
URBAN POPULATION IX OF TOTAL)         17.9        19.8      20,6              17.0 Ab    27.6       56.0
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
U TO 14 YEARS                      41.0       140.6     140.1              J4. V      45.6       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.9       55.3       56.7              53.5       51.6       55.0
65 YEARS ANC OVER                    3.1        3.1        3.2               2.5        2.8        3.0
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8        0.8        0.8               0.9        0.9        0.8
ECUNOFIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         .. l       .2                ..        1.5        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATLVE, THOU)      1000.0 d 11308.0      26566.0            259.3      354.0      250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         ..       15.8 L              ..        2.0        1.6
EPPLCYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      189000.0         ..    221000.0 /b            ..    12300.0    29600.0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)        73.0         ..       72.0                ..       55.0       44.0
UNEMPLOYED (Y OF LABOR FORCE)          1.0         ..        2.0   I            ..        7.0..
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
T OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 /       ..                ..         ..       35.0/a
HIGHEST 20Y OF HOUSEHOLDS           51.7       53.1 i,      ..                ..         ..       62.o7i
LOwEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.1        4.1 ,       ..                ..         ..        3.007
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.6       13.1 1       ..                ..         ..       1o.o7i
DISTPIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
s OwNEO) BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                ..         ..       45.0
S OWNED 8Y SMALLEST 10 OWNERS          ..         ..         ..                ..         ..        1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PCPULATIDN PEP PHYSICIAN            5OO.O/   4800.0     4Jp20.0 /        27650.0         ..     1950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       -wo40.0 If  5 1SlO.O  1.26c.C           8010.0         ..     3300.0/b
!'CPULATICR PER HOSPITAL BEC        2600.0 r   1620.0         ,,            1720.0      850.0      260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
,CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTSI        95.0       93.0       914.0 /h          89.0      1 W.O4     109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       53.0       52.0 70           43.0       45.0       64.0
-CF WHICH ANIMAL.AND PULSE        19.0/      16.0         ..              14.0       22.0       39.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4           44.0         ..         ..                ..        9.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      36.0       68.0 b     79.0 l            69.0      108.0       87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     S.0         ..       28.0              12.0       48.0       28.0 /c
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDEC
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0                         12.0       10.0       13.0
VCCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IS OF SECCNDARY)                     8.0        6.0         ..              29.0        6.o /c    17.0
ADULT LITERACY AATE (%I               24.0       33.0       36.u                ..         ..       68.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)             2.6         ..        2.8B^1             *-         *-        1.0
CCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (T)                       ..         ..         ..                ..       66.0 d     73.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
IS OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..         ..                ..       23.0 d     48.0
..4AL CWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%I                    ..         ..         ..                ..        6.0 /d     8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         5.0       21.0       23.0             114.0       45.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          0.7        1.0        1.0/a             2.0        8.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          46.0      114.0      129.0              20.0      235.0      1491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.2        0.3        0.3               0.2        1.2 /f     2.7
SEE NOTES AND EEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



ANN. EX I
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 aod 1961, for 1970 between 1968 cod 1970, and for Hoot Reret Estimate between
19 73 ad 1975.
-   Beacil has been    selected beccu.. of its nice and coepareble probln        of regi.onal inequality.
INDLA                 1960     /a   1951-61 averge;      /b  1951-60,    Ic   Ratio of Ppoplation ceder 15 and 60 end over to labor force aged 15-59,           /d   1964;
/e  Re gistered applican.ts for wok,      7?   1962;   jj   Including nidwive; both nurses and       idwiv-   registered, not all prootoiing
in the cutr..ty,    /h   1957,    /i  1960-62,    fl,  6-13 and 14-19 years of age repeoniv-ly,         /k  so...ehoids.
1970     /c  1967-68,     /b  5-10 years of age,      /   1967.
MOST RtECENT ESTIMiATE-     /a   1972,    /b  1971,    /cUtie of popula.tion cear 15 and b0 and avr to labor fence aged 15-59;
7d   National progr-    only;    /e  AID estiecte of labor force in age group 15-59.        188  report givee a figure
of 190.4 nillion based on the 1971 population cnu.           The difference in doe to changes in the definition
of cwrker.      Is the 1971 cnu,parone weecasified olyo                   the basic of their eats activitie..
Thin  ed toshe oclusin ofseverl catgorie, coh ashuewvs            f  Registered applican.ts for work,
/j   Including nidwiv-s      /h   1969-7i average;     A0  Population 10 yearn and over;       LiH....cushboda.
INDONESIA             1970     /    1961-71,    /b  1971.
PHIILIPPINSiO         1970     /    A. Por-otage of coIyloymet,       /b   7-12 cod 13-16 year    of age respectively;      /0  Not isrludiog priv-to    --ti.rice   schools
or vocoio..ol short    ore- couse;      /d   1967, households      /   Inside only.
BRAZIL                 1970    /    E.fcc-.coly actIve popolation,        /b  Hospital personnel;      /c  12-18 years of age;      /d  Inside only.
t9, July 21, 1976
DEIPNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Are   (to    h                                                                      Popola.tion per -scrilg person - Population divided by so,bor of pratic-g
Totl.1   Tctol sorfaco areo -oprining land area and inland eaters,                          sale cod fonale graduate    uss     "trained'  or "c-tifiod" nurses, and
A gric   M-Oc   ev-nt occinate of ogricoItura1crec 0used tompurarily or.auiliar y personnel nubt training or espenienc.
p-rc-rtly for croPs, pastres, sachet & bitobs- gardens or to ito                       Population per hospital bed - Population divided by s-ombr of bospital beds
is; o.-                                                                                  available in pablic and private gasse1 cod sp-vici-ed hospital avd
rehcbIlit.ation renters; eoclcdes earning hones an d estahlnshe...ct for
CNP pcr cooit, 7uS) -.G cu    Por caPita otinat       at crnt nrkot price,                  cotpdial and pr:esootiv,e care.
ralcscd  b  sus cocc-oice nettd an World bo         to    173-75 bais;           Perocita puelvyfclr              (7. of rnront)-Coccoced iron            -nr,y
196f, 1970 and 1971 data.                                                                 qaiv-le-c of net food supplies avaiable In coun try per c.pic. Per day,
avai,lable.:sp.p1ios coe.prls: donet. produc.tion, imports less -uports,
loy,.1tatic, sod vItl  sctisolcoadchne 8                                                                 isPto;ne          ope       oclude  tnisl fond, seeds, qusott-
Populaion   Cid-yr. sillion.) - os of July first:      if not available,                   ties us'ed is food processing and losses in distribution; requi-oents
oncrgo of tao cod-year     -t-tomo;1960, 1970 and 1975 dccc.                             weresetimatsd by PAR basd on physiological seeds for oureel           cotioity
and heat    considering   -sirose-tsl tonpsrstuoe, body sihs            0    n
Paoaindonoin -        f o  quare ho -MNd-yo-o pouplation per square kilo-            eo      ditribtos    f popolati-o, and allowing 107.I for ucto at hos-
ertr   7100 Hoct--on)   hitcl      r0old level.                                                            ofpoen(t.prdy                  -P.ti       -   -tfpt
Population denn,ity - coo oou-      ko of  urc. land - Computed as above for             Per capita suppl    ofpoen(ro           prdy          rtincneto            e
agrioultoral lnd only.                                                                   ospit   net supply of food per day; net supply of fool is d.itnd an
aboo-, requjronnst    for all countries established by USDA Eiconot
ViLal uLatiutico                                                                           RocarI lorutin       provde~ for com_o ell          en  o f hR grami of totd
Crode birth race per thoonand, av       ger f- Aunol  Ive blrthn Per thoo-ad                prti          ap, and 20 goon    of anina1 ad poneProtein, of which
of nid-y... ppolacioc, te-year        rithmecic avrages end ing in 1960 and               10 grans should ho aninal protein; thece standards o re       Ioor than tho-c
1970,   ndfive-year    .v.oago coding in 1975 for noat r.eet estinate.                  of 75 grays of total protein and 23 goons of asinaIppoote- us an
Crudo death race Per thoa..and, _evnReg      Annuat deaths per thousiasd of nid-            averago for the world, propose.d by FAO to the Third World Food Soroy.
700popoocfis01o;eon-ya    aroocc Iseron endig i.t 1960 and 1970 cod                  Po   Oit    rtinspt            iospialadclas - Protein supply fi food
i   _-er aeac     ndig    o1975 too coot recen on timoe                               derivediron     maniel  an  palo"    ngosprdy
bo-a   L ou ialt  racy (/choo) - Annual deaths of infants on doe one you    of       Death race (/thoo) agss 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand so ago group
acpro thousa nd live birche.                                                           1-4 poers, to children in chin age group; suggestod an an Indicator of
Lif  cuoo  _oo  at birth (yro)   A-Acrago noeho    of years of lf0     -inciing           ol nutritin
at birth; u...lly fivs-year aesgos -ndoog in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
Croo   rop-vd-Lt.on rate-Average somber oIonduhoseocui                                   Adj-std ovoa1-net ratio - primary school - Enntl11...t of all ace-a
boa-  i  er       -Iou  opootv p-pso        If  he     eivoe      rsnt     ge            peroontage oftprimary     ,ahoot-ace  -Popultion; inclodes children agad
sy-ifir f-rtil ity cocoa; usua lly fiveyea       _coogos e nding in 1960,                6-11 years but adjustedfordifgferent letngths of prsnory edocaiton;
1470 and 1975 for doveIoping v-ontro.-                                                   for countries with universal eduction, aseollei may            -eoed 1007.
Population crouch rotse(.) -total - Compound anna ..Iroa..th coco         of mid-           -ino- acne pupils con bolos or above the official school sge.
-or population for 1950-60, 1961-70 and 1970-75.                                       Ad;un2ted.enro,L2Leet.,ratio - secodary sohool - Cooputed as above;
Pouaingrow th racy (7.  - urban - Computed like cr-th raet of total                  ueondary educatIon rquires at least fmoo year          of approved primary
population; differnt defleit,veo of orbaon areas nay affect coepara-                      snutruction, provides genral, voca.tional or cracker traiesng
bil icy vf dsta ..mong countries,                                                         instruction   for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age, ccornpoedsn-
rhan population (7 of total) - Ratco of urban to total Ppoplation;                          cussare gsneeolly secluded.
difforen   dofiloIson-   of orbon areas nay aff-ot c-pu-bility of data                 Years of sohoolino provided (first and seco nd le-els) - Totsl years of
...ong 00o-cr lossholing; at secodary level, no-tio...l                                                                                  ins tr-otio  nay ho Par-
Age ecr   t2ror  (plrtont) -n Chsldr (' 0-li p0...     oo rkiog-sgs (15-64 years),          cial1   orucopletely secluded.
und  _,rotr   165yearna         - oo) 00 precgsof nid-year poputation.                 Vocational -nrull_et (7 of secodary) - Voctional sn-titutions             -1oldo
Agc decond-sno   ratio -Rtatto of PoI-pultilo   .nder 15 and 65 and over is                 te-hir-I, industrial or other progmos which operate indepondently or
chose of ogon 15 cth-gh 64.a                                                                 deywo ,tmec  of sovnd-ry institutls.
icono.. Io dependency.                                                                           ie.ratio,  Baliot  of po piction under 15 and 65 and ovor  Aol  i osy rats (7.) -  itrtdls(ble to rood and write) us
tc the labor force _oaegroup of 15-64 years.                                             p--cetage of total adult popolation aged 15 years ondovr
Family cl1nnino -acceptoes (U.-loci-e. thou) - Comulativo nomberIo
-tecoaofbrh-cnrol device       under aus pices of notonl       fomly           H... i.g
plonning progron sin-o inception.                                                      Person   proo      (urbon) - Aneros nonher of persons per        oo   in
Pooi  plaonni.-.        s 7  fcrried woen        - P-ecncages of narried                  occpied convetional dwlInga in sob.a.res              dwellings  -oolde
co-ne    ofcildh:eoing ag        15-hi yeas    who one birth-oot-o1 devices               nn-psrn....intru      tcsand unoccupied parts.
to all earried 0000is noe ago group.                                                   OcuieddeligIithout Riced water (7.              - O-tpied    -ro-voti-1a
L.PI.Ymo-                                                          ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dusllInga is uran and rural areas without insi.de or notcide piped
tnplov,ooot                                                          wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ter fecilities as poro.toncge of all oc_upisd d_ellngs._
Total isbor force (chousund) - ic-ooi-ally sLi-o p--on, in-udli                          Acs      oelcrct        (.o     l   doellings) - Conv-,v-al d-11lingo sitS
ormod for.ec and onomloyed hot e-cindong hoosselv-, stdents, etc.;                       Olcrot         nlvn       uresas pecnt of total duolliodsinurham
dof_nition    in vorsoo   coutrIes- are notL.. cparable.                                 cod rural area..
Labor force in nuricul ture (7.) _Agricsltura1 labo r foros (in farming,                 Rw-1 dwelli,,gu cosn-ted to oloactricito (7.) - ComPuted as bhoc for
forostry, hontiog and fishing) as percentage of to tal lob00 force,                      rural dwellings on ly.
U-optoyod (7 of labr    Ufrc)       -Roployed are asually defined en. Pses...
who aro able and willing to cake a job, out of ajob on agiven doy,                     Cunsueption
renamed out of.ajob, and necking work for a          pecified etinom period            Radio reoeivs-    (per thou pop) - Alt types of ono-i...n foe rodio broad-
not o....sding oc    sebk; nay not ho copar..bl    between c-uto ins doe to              cases no gssnra1 public par thea..a.d of population; coo        d lun u-itensd
differen t deficitions of -neeployed od       ..nve   f data, e.g., omploy-              -eeioers is contries and is years when registration of rad-o setswa
enes  office statistics, snpls surveys, copulso.ry unoploy-et insurane,                   in effect; data for recent yerar say not he -op-rble ni-eeno
inoose distribucion - Peroencge of private ioose (both in cash andohind)                 Passes ger cars (Per thou pop)-P Passenger c..arscnrseecrcrs coc-
recived by ricke-t 57., richest 207., p-or-t 207., and p-trst 417          f             ing less thus sight persons, e-liudes ohulonos, hoasnand ell-cay
househoIdo                                                                               vehicles.
El-ctrfitic (huh/or per cop) - Anneal -o-pmtlon of iodontrla1l to.-
PD-tr-botgo   of lund owerhip - Percetages of land nosd by as-lchiest                       ne-otl, public and private     el-tricity is kilo-atc hours Per capsia;
107. and poorest 107. of land owners,                                                    generally bas..d on production data, with out .1.-           for louses in
grids bot cinigfor         oporco and   sports of eloctoicity.
Health and Nutrition                                                                     Nesrn      (uy      er cap) - Pertcapita annua..     uIonyto.iPhrgrm
Pouaion Por physician - Population divided by nun ber of pr-oiioing                     estinated iron dusstic production plus net imports of newprint.
pyloisno quliied fromoen.diouL school at unierity level.



AN=3 I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELDPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974 -5 US$140
GROSS IIATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 P                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant orioes)
USS Bln.       r                                1961/62-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices               80.4       100.0                                   3,4                  3.7                1.9
Gross Domestic Investment          15.1        18.8
Gross National Saving              13.9        17.3
Current Account Balance            -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                       -1.2         -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force          V.A. Per Worker
US: Bln.               $              Min77~                           f   t      l Ave
Agriculture                        24.5                 46.6            130.0   72.1          188             64
Industry                           11.8                 22.3             20.2   11.2          582            199
Services                           16.3                 31.1             30.2   16.7          542            186
Total/average                      52.6                100.0            180.4  100.0         292             100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                              d
General Government                           Central Government
(Rs. Bln)             % of GDP                   (Rs. Bln)                of GDP
1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76         1975/76         1974/75   1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                   107.63          18.2           17.3              112.17            9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures                98.99          16.9           16.3              112.17            8.2          8-7
Current Surplus/Deficit              8.64           1.3            1.0                -              0.9           0.5
Capital Expenditures   i/           40.40            5.8          5-4                85.23            4.3          4.1
External Assistance CPP (net)       10.17            1.4          1.0                10.17            1.4          1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66        m  .    1971/72    1972/73     1975/74    1974/75    Marclh 1975    March 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
.-y a-:.d iuasi 'M1¶or-y                    61.4      105.7      122.4,     1412.2      169.1      187.4       187.2            213.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector               40.8        56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9       102.0       102.6           107.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector              28.1        56.7       64.4       76.0       90.1       100.5       109.5           134.2
(Percentage or Index Nunbers)                      June    1975   June    1976
Money and Quasi MJoney as % of GDP         24.0        24.4       26.3       27-9        27.2       25-5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 10o)                       131.6      181.1       138.4      207.1      254.2      313.0        316.0           290.5
,cnaal percentage chaniges in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7         5-5        4.0         9.9       22.7       23.1                        -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                12.9        8.6       21.3        19.6       12.6        g.9                        4.8 fl
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8        17.4       13.6       18.0        18.5       11.5                        22.9 g/
v The per capita Gd? estimate is at 1974 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1976.
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
q 2uick Estimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observatiorn before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
a/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
LI Credit to Govcrnment.
.   Credit to Comnercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1972/73     1973/74     1974/75      1975/76 h/             MERChANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(us$ Million)                                                    us$ Mln.        7
Exports of Goods                   2,558       3,239       4,143       4,555                  Jute Manufacturers      299           9
Imports of Goods                  -2,682      -3,971      -5,739       -6,102                 Tea                    247            7
Trade balance                     - 124       - 732        -1,596      -1,547                 Cotton Textiles         391          11
NFS (net) -/                         146        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.                 Engineering Goods       390          11
Others                2,134          62
Resource Gap                      - 270         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.                 Total                 3,461         100
Interest Payments (net)           - 237       -  233      - 260        - 261
Other Factor PFyments (net) i/    -    8        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Net Transfers 1                   -   50        n.a.        n.e.         n.a.
Balance on Current Account        - 565         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.                 EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1976
Official Aid                                                                                                                     us$ Mln.
Disbursements                    955       1,249       1,766       2,249                  Repayable in foreign currency       11,247.7
Asiortizatiss                   -445        -459         -519        -522                 Repayable through export of goods      635
Transactions with IlmF                            75          530         205                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,882.7
All Other Items                       89         205           41         500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76       17.2 percent _/
Increase in Reserves (-)            - 34        -105          38         -794
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,311       1,416        1,378       2,172
Net Reserves (end year)            1,311       1,341          773       1,474                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, June 30, 1976       (us$ Mln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                    IBRD     IDA
Imports                              265         720        1,451       1,417                 Outstanding and Disbursed        435    2,948
of which- Petroleum                265         719        1,451       1,417                 Undisbursed                      266    1,236
Outstanding including            701    4,184
Exports                               41          20           26        n.a.                   Undisbursed
of which  Petroleum                 37          16           17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE i/
Prior to mid-December 1971        US$1.00 = Rs 7.5                                            After end June 1972    :   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = US$0.133333                                       Spot Rate December 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to              US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                                       approx. US$1.00 - Rs 8.901
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = US$0.137376                                                      approx. Rs 1.00 - us$ 0.112
h/ Estimated.
I/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
j/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transaction) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDAtCREDITS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                 US$ Million -/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                     (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5
40 Credits fully disbursed                                             2,213.9
614-IN         1969   India      Tarai Seeds                     13.0     -             3.8
203-IN         1970   India      Punjab Agricultural Credit       -       27.5        10.7
226-IN         1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4          3.3
242-IN         1971   India      Power Transmission II            -       75.0        19.4
249-IN         1971   India      Haryana Agricultural Credit      -       25.0         0.1
250-IN         1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit   -       35.0          5.8
264-IN         1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer             -       20.0          1.0
267-IN         1971   India      Wheat Storage                    -        5.0         3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI      Industry DFC IX                 59.0     -            2.5
278-IN         1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit       -       40.0         5.6
294-IN         1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets       -       14.0        11.6
312-IN         1972   India      Population                       -       21.2        10.3
342-IN         1972   India      Education                        -       12.0        11.4
356-IN         1972   India      IDBI                             -       25.0        16.4
377-IN         1973   India      Power Transmission III           -       85.0        49.8
378-IN         1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets      -        8.0          7.6
902-IN         1973   ICICI       Industry DFC X                 70.0     -            10.2
390-IN         1973   India      Bombay Water Supply              -       55.0        43.4
391-IN         1973   India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        33.0          2.9
392-IN         1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.   -       38.0         18.0
403-IN         1973   India      Telecommunications V             -       80.0         25.8
427-IN         1973   India       Calcutta Urban Development      -       35.0         18.5
440-IN         1973   India       Bihar Agricultural Credit       -       32.0         20.2
456-IN         1974   India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0         11.7
481-IN         1974   India      Trombay IV                       -       50.0         28.3
1011-IN         1974   India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD        52.0     -            42.4
482-IN         1974   India      Karnataka Dairy                  -       30.0         30.0
502-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Canal CAD              -       83.0         59.4
520-IN         1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer               -       91.0         51.2
521-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                  -       27.7         27.5
522-IN         1974   India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy             -       16.4         16.4
526-IN         1975   India      Drought Prone Areas              -       35.0         32.9
1079-IN         1975   India       IFFCO Fertilizer              109.0     -            94.4
1097-IN         1975   India       Industry DFC XI               100.0     -            75.4
532-IN         1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -       45.0         38.1
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                       -       75.0         43.8
541-IN         1975   India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.           -       34.0         33.5
562-IN         1975   India       Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD    -       24.0         22.1
572-IN         1975   India      Rural Electrification            -       57.0         57.0
582-IN         1975   India      Railways XIII                    -      120.0         56.0
585-IN         1975   India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -       40.0         40.0
598-IN         1975   India      Fertilizer Industry              -      105.0        103.7
604-IN         1975   India      Power Transmission IV            -      150.0        150.0
609-IN         1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -        4.0          4.0
610-IN         1976   India       Integrated Cotton Development   -        18.0        18.0
616-IN         1976   India       Industrial Imports XI           -      200.0         31.4
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0     -           145.0
1260-IN         1976   India       IDBI II                        40.0     -            40.0
1273-IN         1976   India      National Seed                   25.0     -            25.0
1313-IN         1976   India      Telecommunications VI           80.0     -            71.6
1335-IN         1976   India       Bombay Urban Transport        *25.0     -            25.0
Total                                                         1,750.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                      762.5      22.2
Total now outstanding                                           988.0   4,089.9
Amount sold                                111.5
of which has been repaid               111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  988.0   4,089.9
Total undisbursed (including *)                                  510.3  1,140.5     1,650.8
* Not yet effective
I/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1      3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -        6.6
TOTAL                           49.6       8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                              6.0      1.6       7.6
Repaid                          11.9        -       11.9
Cancelled                        6.2       0.7       6.9
Now Held                        25.5       6.5      32.0
Undisbursed                     10.6        -       10.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of ±
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,640.8 million as of December 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of i)
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. Nlo. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II suffered initial delays because of problems
associated with the preparations for international bidding and the analysis
of a very large number of bids involved. All contracts have now been awarded.
Due to variations in exchange rates, an undisbursed balance of about US$2
million, by the Closing Date, is likely. For Power Transmission III, vir-
tually all equipment has been ordered; there will be a substantial cost
overrun due to international price increases, part of which is being met
from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV, bids for most of
the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$,20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30,. 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19., 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975; Closing Date:   March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
moniths behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project hias
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri projet plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by t1arch 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
comiipletion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX Il
Page 7 oi 12
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports,Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
Mlarch 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Miadhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with repect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976; Closing
Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 21, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in pro-
gress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project are
under way.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            India, acting by its President.
BENEFICIARIES AND
AMOUNTS ALLOCATED:                                            (US$ million)
(a)  Tamil Nadu Housing Board                   4.2
(b)  Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board            3.0
(c)  Small Industries Development Corp.         1.5
(c) Tamil Nadu Handicrafts
Development Corp.                        0.2
(d)  Department of Social Welfare               0.2
(e) Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage
Board and Madras Corporation           5.2
(f)  Madras Corporation                         2.0
(f)  Department of Highways & Rural Works       2.0
(f)  State Police                               0.2
(g) Metropolitan Wing of Pallavan
Transport Corporation                     4.5
(h) Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority                                1.0
AMOUNT:              US$24.0 million.
TERMS:               Standard.
ON-LENDING TERMS:    India to Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN), standard terms
and conditions.
GTN to implementing agencies, grants (US$33.5 million)
and loans (US$18.5 million) with maturities of 15 and
20 years, including grace periods of 1 and 3 years,
respectively, and interest rates of 10-1/2% and 11%
per annum.



ANNEX III
Page 2
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:-      The provision of:
(a) sites and services for about 13,500 families
at three sites covering a total area of about
175 ha;
(b) basic infrastructure services and community
facilities in 85 slum areas covering an area
of 185 ha with a population of about 23,000
families, with open plots to be developed for
an additional 7,500 families;
(c) sheds, equipment, finance and training to
create about 4,000 jobs in small-scale business
and about 5,000 jobs in cottage industry in the
sites and services and slum improvement project
areas;
(d) buildings, equipment and training to provide
supplementary nutrition, health examinations,
immunization, health and nutrition education
and functional literacy training for about
17,000 pre-school age children and 20,000
women from the beneficiary households in the
sites and services and slum improvement project
areas;
(e) measures to rehabilitiate the existing water
supply and sewerage systems;
(f) construction of about 12 km of an Inner Ring
Road and of pedestrian walkways, bicycle tracks
and other road and traffic improvements and
traffic engineering measures;
(g) replacement of 285 over-aged buses and construc-
tion of depots, terminals and passenger shelters;
and
(h) technical assistance to assist in development plan-
ning capital programming, financial management, proj-
ect monitoring and evaluation, and staff training.
1/   Components are described in the same order as under "beneficiaries and
amounts allocated" (Annex III, page 1).



ANNEX III
Page 3
ESTIMATED COST:                                 (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
(a)  Sites and Services          6.8      1.0      7.8
(b)  Slum Improvement            4.3      0.6      4.9
(c) Small-Scale Business/
Cottage Industry           2.2      0.2      2.4
(d)  Maternal & Child Health     0.7       -       0.7
(e)  Water Supply & Sewerage     7.4      1.6      9.0
(f) Road & Traffic
Improvement               6.2      1.5      7.7
(g)  Bus Transport               5.3      0.6      5.9
(h)  Technical Assistance       0.4       0.4      0.8
Subtotal              33.3      5.9     39.2
Contingency (physical)      2.6      0.5      3.1
Contingency (price)         8.1      1.6      9.7
Total Project cost    44.0      8.0     52.0
FINANCING PLAN:                                  (US$ million)
Total of which IDA
GTN Loans                            18.5        9.1
GTN Grants                           33.5       14.9
Total                           52.0       24.0
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                 (US$ million)
FY78      FY79       FY80      FY81    Total
0.5       7.0        10.5      6.0     24.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:  For MMDA
- Advisors and short-term consultancy
services to assist in urban development
planning, financial management, capital
programming and small-scale industry
promotion                                 186 man-months
- aerial photography and related equipment



ANNEX III
Page 4
For MC
- Consultants' services to assist in
reorganization and improvement of
the accounting system                   152 man-months
For All Executing Agencies
- Training of staff
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:      Procurement of equipment with an estimated total
value of US$5.0 million (e.g., bus chassis, water
supply equipment) would be on the basis of inter-
national bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Indian suppliers competing under international com-
petitive bidding would be granted a preference margin
of 15% or the current rate of import duty, whichever
is less. Contracts for civil works, with an esti-
mated total value of US$33.0 million, which will be
small and scattered throughout the city, together with
contracts totalling an estimated US$4.5 million for
self-help building materials, some water supply and
sewerage equipment, traffic engineering and control
equipment and medical supplies, would be let under
GTN procedures of local competitive bidding acceptable
to IDA. The latter contracts would be either of small
sizes and unattractive to foreign suppliers, or unsuit-
able for international competitive bidding by reason
of high transportation cost. Bus bodies would be built
by the workshop of the Pallavan Transport Corporation,
and they would not be financed under the proposed credit.
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:         21% on 55% of project costs, for which benefits can be
quantified.
APPRAISAL REPORT:    No. 1320a-IN, dated February 15, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDIA - MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I    Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken by the country to prepare the project
The proposed project was first suggested in 1973 by GOI
and GTN and has subsequently been prepared by MMDA
assisted by state and local government agencies.
(b)     The agency which has prepared the project
MMDA, assisted by the implementing agencies.
(c)     Date of first presentation to the Association and date of
first mission to consider the project
April 1975.
(d)     Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 24, 1976.
(e)     Date of completion of negotiations
January 14, 1977.
(f)     Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1977.
Section II   Special IDA Implementation Actions.
Mission in early March 1977 for detailed discussions
on procurement and on implementation schedules.
Section III  Special Conditions
(a)     Selection of works, final engineering design, and
implementation arrangements for water supply and
sewerage component to be satisfactory to IDA
(para 35).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(b)     Arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be made for
relocation of people required to move as a result
of the project (para 36).
(c)     Establishment of revolving funds to finance further
investments in sites and services and slum improve-
ment (paras 43 and 44).
(d)     Undertaking of an income survey to ascertain levels
to which rents in flats constructed under the slum
clearance and resettlement program could reasonably
be raised (para 44).
(e)     Additional GTN contribution to revolving fund to improve
by March 31, 1985, all slum areas in Madras (para 44).
(f)     Ceiling on annual expenditures on slum clearance of
Rs 37.5 million by TNSCB (para 44).
(g)     Issuance of freehold titles and collection of monthly
charges of Rs 10 per plot under the slum improvement
component (para 44).
(h)     Preparation of a long-term slum improvement program by
June 30, 1978 (para 44).
(i)     Levying of water and sewerage taxes and charges suffi-
cient to meet annual expenditures and provide adequate
working capital for these services (para 46).
(j)     Minimum debt service ratio and maximum operating
ratios for PTC (para 48).
(k)     Establishment of a Financial Management Department
within MC, appointment of a Financial Advisor, increase
in MC's self-generated revenues, maximum debt service
level for MC (para 49).
(l)     Establishment and maintenance of project monitoring
and evaluation system within MMDA, separate project
accounts by each implementing agency and consolidated
project accounts by MMDA (para 50).
(m)     Establishment of traffic engineering units in MC and
DHRW and a traffic management unit by Police (para 49).



1ARD 12401
;  X ;   /   0E          >            _  _   a A   i- ;0  -                  1 7-
'0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   0~<
r/                          79': 1 ,8D°2z g                  |0 
z jL K ' . g r - w 0 ~- <> - - .
W  EA   ]   V   j  '   - |  W    \  0  ' X  $       _  /        (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
9/                                                                                     /



