Report No. 1320a-IN                                                     FILE  COPY
India
Appraisal of the Madras Urban
Development Project
February 15, 1977
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 15, 1976)
Currency Unit               =   Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00                     =   Rs 9.0
Rs 1.00       5=   US$0.11
Rs 1 lakh (10               =   US$11,110
Rs 1 crore (10 )            =   US$1.11 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter              (mt   =   39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 ft
1 square meter       (m3)       10.8  square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter        (m )   =   35.3  cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer          (km}   =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer  (km )        0.386 sq miles
1 hectare            (ha)   =    2.47 acres (ac) or 10,000 sq meters
1 liter               (1)   =    1.057 quarts liquid or
0.26 US gallon (gal) or
0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita
per day (lcd)                 0.26 US gallon per capita per
day (gcd)
I cubic meter 3
per second (m /sec)       =   86.4 million liters per day or
22 million US gallons per day
1 million liters
per day (mld)             =    0.01 cubic meters per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DHRW      Department of Highways and Rural Works
DSW       Department of Social Welfare
EWS       Economically Weaker Sections
GOI       Government of India
GTN       Government of Tamil Nadu
LIG       Lower Income Group
MC        Madras Corporation
MIG       Middle Income Group
MMA       Madras Metropolitan Area
MMDA      Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
MUA       Madras Urban Agglomeration
PTC       Pallavan Transport Corporation
SIDCO     Small Industries Development Corporation
SISI      Small Industry Services Institute
TIIC      Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation
TNHB      Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNHDC     Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation
TNSCB     Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
TWAD      Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WHO       World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........................      i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .......    ..............................     1
II.   BACKGROUND                . . . . .............e............s.*.  1
A.   Urban Development in India and Tamil Nadu  1.... 
B.   Madras Metropolitan Area ............. .   ..          2
C. Institutions ..............                              5
III.   THE PROJECT  .......................                        6
A.   Objectives    ..................................       6
B.   Main Features  .....................    .... .         6
C. Detailed Description.                                    8
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING   .      .14
A. Cost Estimates                    . .14
B. Execution.                                              16
C. Financing   .                   .18
D. Cost Recovery   .                 .20
E.   Procurement and Disbursement    .       .24
F.   Accounts and Audit       ..........                   25
G. Supervision                 .....  25
V.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE ..............        25
A.   Madras Metropolitan Development Authority  ....       25
B.   Madras Corporation ...........................        26
C.   Pallavan Transport Corporation  ....     ..........   28
D.   Other Executing Agencies  .....      ...............  29
E.   Long-Term Improvement Programs for Madras' Poor       29
VI.   JUSTIFICATION          ...................                 30
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ......      ............................  32
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. S. Sandstrom, D. Cook, I. Sud,
and A. Van Nimmen (IDA), and A. Bertaud, J. Cooper, and K. Huddart (consultants)
who visited Madras in May 1976 to appraise the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Profile of Madras Metropolitan Area
2.   Sites and Services
3.   Slum Improvement
4.   Small-Scale Business
5.   Maternal and Child Health
6.   Water Supply and Sewerage
7.   Road and Traffic Improvements
8.   Bus Transport
9.   Technical Assistance
10.   Key Implementation Actions
11.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
12.   Madras Corporation:  Organization and Finance
13.   Madras Metropolitan Development Authority:
Objectives, Work Program, Organization and
Staffing
CHARTS
1.  Madras Household Income Distribution
2.   Implementation Schedule (Physical Elements)
3.   Present Organization of Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
4.   Proposed Organization of Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
5.   Organization of Madras Corporation
6.   Organization of Pallavan Transport Corporation
7.   Organization of Tamil Nadu Housing Board
8.   Organization of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
9.   Organization of Small Industries Development Corporation
10.   Organization of Department of Highways and Rural Works
11.   Project Impact on the Growth of Madras' Slum Population
SKETCHES
1.   Plot and Core Options
2.   Possible Evolution of Plots A and B
3.   Plot C Cluster
4.   Typical Improvement of Low-Density Slum
5.   Typical Improvement of High-Density Slum
PHOTOGRAPHS
1.   Typical Slum Conditions (1)
2.   Typical Slum Conditions (2)
MAPS
1.   Madras Metropolitan Area and the Location of Major Project
Components (IBRD 12401)
2.   Road and Traffic Improvement Component (IBRD 12402)
3.   Arumbakkam Sites and Services Component (IBRD 12403)
4.   Villivakkam Sites and Services Component (IBRD 12404)
5.   Kodungaiyur Sites and Services Component (IBRD 12405)
6.   Existing Water Supply Sources for Madras (IBRD 12407)
7.   Water Supply and Sewerage Component (IBRD 12408)



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        IDA assistance is sought for an urban development project in Madras.
Its main objective is to develop and promote low-cost solutions to Madras'
problems in the sectors of shelter, employment, water supply, sewerage and
transport, and particularly to make the investments responsive to the needs
of the urban poor. To ensure replicability, the project will introduce full
cost recovery for key investments for which costs have traditionally not been
fully recovered. The project will also strengthen metropolitan planning and
capital programming and budgeting. The investments proposed are aimed
to directly benefit the poorer segments of the population in the Madras
metropolitan area.
ii.       Madras metroplitan area is characterized by low per capita incomes
(US$95 in 1970-71), a large and rapidly increasing population (4.4 million,
growing at 5.0% per annum), and serious deficiencies in important urban serv-
ices with levels of services deteriorating. Per capita water supply averages
less than 70 liters per day (lcd) but many domestic consumers, particularly ip
the poorest areas, receive less than 40 lcd. Comparable average figures for
Bombay and Calcutta are 138 lcd and 145 lcd, respectively. The critical water
supply situation was highlighted during the 1974/75 drought, when supplies
dwindled to less than 10 lcd (water was rationed to 20 lcd once every three
days). In transport, pedestrians and bicyclists account for close to half of
all person trips but facilities for these low-cost transport modes have been
neglected, and road investments have benefitted mainly motor vehicle traffic.
iii.      The provision of serviced land and housing has not kept up with
the need, particularly of low-income groups. Existing Government of Tamil
Nadu programs in the housing sector are primarily aimed at middle-income
groups. The slum population of Madras has consequently been increasing
more rapidly than the total population and now accounts for more than 30%
of the total, or about 1.2 million persons. Programs to alleviate the plight
of the slum population have so far emphasized slum clearance and resettlement
at high cost, rather than slum improvement. While the slum population is
increasing by some 14,000 households annually, only about 3,000 resettlement
units are being constructed each year.
iv.       The project would provide:  (a) sites and services, with about
13,500 serviced residential plots and about 21 ha of serviced land for small
industry and commercial uses; (b) infrastructure improvements in 85 slums
covering about 185 ha with a population of 23,000 households, plus provision
of open plots in and around the slums for an additional 7,500 households; (c)
work sheds, equipment, training and finance to generate about 4,000 jobs in
small industry and about 5,000 jobs in cottage industry in the sites and



services and slum improvement areas; (d) training, equipment, and sheds to
provide supplementary nutrition, health examinations, immunization, health
and nutrition education, and functional literacy training in the sites and
services and slum improvement areas; (e) rehabilitation of existing water
supply and sewerage systems; (f) road and traffic improvements with emphasis
on footpaths and cycle tracks; (g) replacement of 285 buses and construction
of bus depots, bus terminals and passenger shelters; and (h) technical assist-
ance, mainly to the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority.
v.        Related key policy measures include:  (a) the provision of security
of tenure (freehold titles) to the inhabitants of the improved slums, and
cost recovery through the sale of the land on a hire-purchase basis (Govern-
ment of Tamil Nadu orders to this effect were issued in August 1976); (b)
the imposition of a ceiling on expenditures for slum clearance; (c) the
establishment of revolving funds for financing of future sites and services
and slum improvement programs from all cost recoveries from such schemes under
the proposed project; (d) the establishment of a permanent unit in the M4adras
Corporation to carry out improvement and construction of footpaths and cycle
tracks; (e) raising of bus fares to reduce the deficit of Pallavan Transport
Corporation (raised by 22% in March 1976); (f) staggering of working hours in
Madras to improve bus fleet utilization (implemented during July and August
1976); and (g) abolition of the bus licensing system restricting the use of
individual buses to particular routes (done in July 1976).
vi.        Steps are also being taken to improve the finances particularly of
Madras Corporation; a financial consultant was appointed by the Corporation
in May 1976 to initiate the improvements, and the establishment of a Finan-
cial Management Department is under way. The Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority is reorienting its activities from traditional land-use and physical
planning to more comprehensive urban development planning emphasizing social
and economic development; a two-year work program has been prepared and a
reorganization of the Authority is under way.
vii.      Project costs total US$52.0 million, including contingencies, of
which land acquisition costs are US$ 1.9 million.  Foreign exchange costs
are US$8.0 million or 15% of project cost. Cost estimates are based mostly
on final engineering designs and on recent bids for similar works and equip-
ment.
viii.     The project will be executed by existing Government of Tamil Nadu
agencies in each sector. While the individual agencies will be responsible
for the execution of their respective project components, the Madras MIetro-
politan Development Authority will be responsible for coordination, monitor-
ing and evaluation.
ix.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$24 million would finance 50% of
total project cost net of (a) taxes and duties (US$2.9 million) and (b)
expenditures on bus bodies (US$1.1 million) which will not be procured



- iii -
through competitive bidding. The Credit would be made to the Government
of India which would pass it on to the Government of Tamil Nadu on its
standard terms and conditions. The balance of US$28 million would be pro-
vided by the Government of Tamil Nadu.
x.        Contracts for supply of bus chassis and a portion of the equip-
ment for water supply, with an estimated total value of US$5.0 million,
will be let under international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Contracts for civil works, with an estimated total value of
US$33.0 million, will be awarded after local competitive bidding. These
works are small and scattered and would not be of interest to international
contractors. Building materials for self-help construction, the remainder
of equipment and materials for water supply, traffic engineering and control
equipment and medical supplies, with a total estimated value of US$4.5 million,
will be procured by competitive bidding under local procedures, acceptable to
IDA, as the individual contracts would be too small for international competi-
tion, or would have high transportation charges. Bus bodies will be built by
the bus company's own workshop, and the cost of the bodies (US$1.1 million)
is excluded from IDA financing.
xi.       The economic rate of return is estimated at about 21% on the
average for those components of the project for which benefits could be
quantified. For the remaining components, the project ensures that invest-
ments proposed are the least cost. Many vital steps are being taken under
the proposed project to initiate development programs that are financially
sustainable and that can be expanded to reach the majority of Madras' slum
dwellers and poor. Estimates indicate that through this project the growth
in the slum population would be halted during the project period, i.e. there
would be no further increase in the total population living on unserviced
land without security of tenure. There will be a continuing impact after the
project period with a rapid reduction in the slum population through further
sites and services and slum improvement schemes financed out of the revolving
funds. All slum areas in Madras will be improved by 1985.
xii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$24 million.



i 4



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) is seeking IDA financing for a project
to assist the Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) to improve urban services and pro-
vide employment opportunities for the poor in Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA).
This would be the second IDA credit for urban development in India. The first
credit was made in 1973 to help finance the Calcutta Urban Development Project.
A Bank loan was made in 1976 to the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority to improve bus transport and metropolitan planning in Greater Bombay.
1.02      The proposed project was first suggested in 1973 by GOI and GTN and
has subsequently been prepared by the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
(MMDA) assisted by state and local government agencies. During the same period,
a water supply and sewerage project in Madras has also been under discussion
and the proposed project now incorporates urgently required investments in this
sector while a longer-term investment program is being prepared through a UNDP-
financed study expected to be completed early in 1979.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of Messrs. S. Sandstrom, D. Cook,
I. Sud, and A. Van Nimmen (IDA) and A. Bertaud, J. Cooper, and K. Huddart (con-
sultants) who visited Madras in May 1976 to appraise the project.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in India and Tamil Nadu
2.01      India's present urban population of 130 million, about 21% of the
total population of 625 million, is expected to approach 300 million by the
year 2000, representing annual rates of increase of 3%-3.5%. Some 4.3 mil-
lion persons are now annually added to the urban population. Compared with
an urban population growth rate of 5.5% for the world as a whole, the present
Indian growth rate of 3.3% is low but the growth is impressive in absolute
terms. The most rapid growth is taking place in approximately 133 medium-
sized cities with populations between 100,000 and one million, which grew at
an average rate of 6.6% annually between 1961-71. If present trends continue,
by the year 2000 there would be 43 Indian cities with populations of more
than one million compared with nine cities today.
2.02      A national urbanization policy to deal with rapid urban growth and
to explicitly incorporate urban development into a broader economic devel-
opment framework is still at an early stage of discussion and is largely based
on physical concepts. Prime responsibility for the urban sector development



-2-
rests at the state level and many states, including Tamil Nadu, are making
serious efforts to develop strategies for the sector. Local government in-
stitutions and planning mechanisms are generally weak. Inadequate resource
mobilization at the local government level has resulted in serious deficien-
cies in the provision and maintenance of urban service facilities.
2.03      Tamil Nadu, with a population of about 45 million, is the third
most densely populated state in India (after Kerala and West Bengal) and the
second most urbanized state (30% urban population versus 31% in Maharashtra).
Madras, the capital of Tamil Nadu, is the fourth largest city in India and
the largest in the four-state Southern Region. It is about five times the
size of Madurai, the second largest city in the state.
2.04      The economy of Tamil Nadu is characterized by a relatively small
agricultural sector, accounting for about 39% of state income, and a rela-
tively large manufacturing sector, accounting for about 20% of income. Trade
is also relatively important, mainly reflecting the role of Madras as the
commercial center of South India. Tamil Nadu lacks natural resources for
its manufacturing sector. In agriculture, however, the state has the third
highest total rice production of the Indian states and has achieved the
highest rice yield per hectare, almost twice the national average. The
manufacturing sector is characterized by a predominance of small establish-
ments of recent origin, as compared to the leading states in the sector,
Maharashtra and West Bengal. Manufactures of textiles, electrical machinery
and transport equipment are of major importance. Average per capita income
in the state is no higher than the national average.
2.05      Given its high urbanization rate, Tamil Nadu scores lower than ex-
pected in terms of per capita income. Yet, its record on social development
is impressive. It has the second highest literacy rate among the states (40%
in 1971 versus the Indian average of 29%), and its infant mortality rate of
55 per 1,000 live births in 1971 is less than half the national average.
B. Madras Metropolitan Area
Perspective
2.06      Madras has a long history.  The port had a flourishing trade with
the Roman Empire in the second century A.D. and Arab merchants visited set-
tlements in the area during the 9th and 10th centuries. Marco Polo passed
through in the late 13th century and the Portuguese settled there briefly in
the early 16th century. The foundation of the present settlement is said to
have been laid in 1639 when the site on which Fort St. George stands was
acquired by the British East India Company. The name of Madras is, however,
apparently derived from Madraspatnam, a village that existed prior to the
settlement of the British (see Annex 1).



-3-
2.07      In 1901, the city of Madras had a population of about 550,000
which by 1941 had increased to some 880,000. The city had a good water supply
system in 1941 and most of its area was sewered. It was still primarily an
administrative and commercial center. Since independence, the city has grown
rapidly and in 1971 covered an area of 129 km wit) a population of about
2.5 million. The MMA, which covers about 1,170 km , had a 1971 population
of 3.5 million, increasing at about 5.0% annually. The present MMA popula-
tion is estimated at about 4.4 million to which over 200,000 are added
annually.
Economy
2.08      Expansion of the manufacturing sector is a major reason behind
the rapid population growth in Madras over the past 25 years. A large num-
ber of public sector undertakings have been located in Madras, including
the Integral Coach Factory, Madras Refinery and Fertilizers, and the Heavy
Vehicles Factory. The port of Madras has been expanded to an annual capacity
of about 7.0 million tons of throughput (16 berths and capable of handling
ships up to 100,000 tons and requiring 12.8 m draft). A fisheries port is
being built to accommodate about 150 trawlers and 500 smaller boats. Many
private sector companies have also been attracted to Madras (Ashok Leyland,
Standard Motors, and the Simpson and T.V.S. Groups, for instance). Most major
banks and stock companies of South India have located their head offices in
Madras.  Still, most employment is in smaller establishments to which GTN is
giving particular attention and support. New manufacturing establishments are
predominantly being located north and west of the city center, while the expan-
sion of trade and commerce is taking place in the center itself and towards
the south (see Map IBRD 12401).
2.09      Annual per capita income in the MMA in 1970-71 averaged Rs 855
(US$95) compared with the average of Rs 624 (US$69) for the State as a whole.
It was, however, considerably less than the per capita income in many other
metropolitan areas in India. About 56% of the total income is derived from
the tertiary sector and 39% from the secondary sector. Unemployment statistics
are unreliable but according to the 1971 census, the work force participation
rate in the Madras area was only about 28%, versus 37% in Bombay and 33% in
Calcutta.
Services
2.10      Madras suffers from serious deficiencies in the key service sectors.
The physical conditions in the area lead to high infrastructure costs for
water, sewerage and drainage. Additional investments are required not only
to reduce the existing deficiencies but also to meet the increase in demand
for services. As a further background to the proposed project, the problems
in key service sectors are summarized below.
2.11      Water Supply and Sewerage.  The total water suppiy presently avail-
able, mainly from the Red Hills Lake system is about 2.4 m /sec which is less



-4-
than half the needs. Per capita supply averages less than 70 liters per day
(lcd) but, due to inadequate distribution, many domestic consumers, particu-
larly in the poorest areas receive less than 40 lcd. C-omparable figures for
Bombay and Calcutta are 138 lcd and 145 lcd, respectively. The critical water
supply situation was highlighted during the 1974/75 drought when supplies
dwindled to less than 10 lcd (water was rationed to 20 lcd once in every three
days).  The present system is in poor condition due to a lack of replacement
and maintenance and is deteriorating.  Existing water sources are shown on
Map IBRD 12407 and are described in more detail in Annex 6.
2.12      About 75% of the city area is sewered but no sewerage systems exist
in the rest of the metropolitan area except for one municipality (Tiruvottiyur)
which has a limited system under construction.  Less than 15% of the total
estimated sewage of 200 mld is presently treated at the Kodungaiyur Sewage
Farm north of the city and the remainder is dumped into the ocean. Major
proposals have been made since 1959 for sewering and treating the effluent
from the entire city but only limited works are presently being carried out.
Three additional sewage farms with a total treatment capacity of 95 mld are
under construction and are expected to be completed over the next two years.
Even with the completion of the new treatment works, only some 65% of the
total present effluent flow from sewered areas will be treated.
2.13      A comprehensive study to review the sector issues and to prepare
recommendations for physical, financial and management improvements and for
system expansion was initiated in October 1976, with financing from UNDP and
with WHO acting as executing agency. The proposed project includes urgently
required schemes prepared by local agencies, and these schemes will be further
reviewed by the UNDP/WHO consultants and IDA before detailed designs and con-
tract documents are prepared. A-Master Plan for water supply and sewerage
through year 2001 will be available about September 1977 and feasibility
studies for a first major project by January 1979.
2.14      Housing.  The provision of serviced land and housing has not kept
up with the need, particularly for low income groups. T17he existing GTN
programs in the sector are primarily aimed at middle-income groups. The
slum population of the MMA (population living on unserviced land without
security of tenure) has been increasing more rapidly than the total popula-
tion and now accounts for more than 30% of the total population of the area,
or about 1.2 million persons. An extensive slum survey carried out in the
city in 1970 identified about 1200 slums with a total population of about
740,000 persons and with an estimated additional 200,000 slum dwellers out-
side the city boundary in NNA.
2.15      In 1971, GTN established a Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB)
with the task of clearing and improving all slums by 1977. The approach
followed by TNSCB so far involves clearance of the slums and resettling the
population in four-story tenements constructed on the cleared site. Only
limited physical improvements in situ without resettlement have been made
under a slum improvement program which was previously financed by GOI but
since 1975 is financed by GTN. By the end of 1976, the improvement program
had been largely phased out, with only Rs 30 lakhs (US$335,000) provided for



-5-
the entire fiscal year. The average cost per housing unit under the clearance
program is Rs 10,000 (US$1,100) while the rent is only Rs 10 (US$1.1) per
month. Considering maintenance and other overhead costs, the rents cover less
than 10% of the cost. While the slum population is increasing by some 14,000
households annually, only about 3,000 resettlement units have been constructed
annually. The approach has been far from successful. Focus on costly slum
clearance instead of inexpensive improvement and a lack of any significant
housing programs for the lowest-income families (below 50th percentile) have
contributed to the continuing increase in the slum population.
2.16      Transport.  Madras' transport system is characterized by its heavy
reliance on walking, bicycling and bus travel. Pedestrian and bicycle trips
each account for about 21% of all trips, buses for 42%, trains for 11% and
cars and motorcycles for the remaining 5%. Motor vehicle congestion is not
serious even during peak periods but adequate facilities for pedestrians and
bicyclists are lacking. An extensive Traffic and Transportation Study, com-
pleted in 1974 by the GTN Directorate of Town and Country Planning, neverthe-
less proposed motor vehicle oriented investments in roads and equipment of
Rs 148 crores (US$164 million) over a five-year period plus heavy investments
in the rail system. Investments in transport of this magnitude are clearly not
feasible given the overall resource constraints of MMA. Given the present
trends for transportation, a major part of these investments can be deferred
for many years and the project includes only the works necessary in the next
three years.
C. Institutions
2.17      Local governments within MMA consist of Madras municipal corpo-
ration, four small municipalities, four townships and 20 panchayats. 1/ GTN
exerts a dominating influence on MMA through MMDA, the local governments,
its own departments and statutory bodies such as TNSCB and Tamil Nadu Housing
Board (TNHB), which have major sector development responsibilities. Madras
is also characterized by the predominance of voluntary agencies carrying out
major social works programs, and the private sector plays an important role in
providing health services and education. Close to half of all primary schools
and the majority of the high schools in the city are private.
Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
2.18      MMDA is the agency responsible for land-use planning and control in
MEA. It was initially set up in 1972 as an executive agency and subsequently
in 1974 made into a statutory authority. It is charged with the responsibi-
lity for the development of master plans which govern all public and private
developments in MMA. In addition, MMDA prepares and implements development
plans for new towns in MMA.
1/   A panchayat is a local authority serving a predominantly rural area.



-6-
2.19      Although MMDA's functions so far have been focused primarily on
physical planning and land-use control, it has, at GTN's direction more
recently been attempting to perform the capital programming and budgeting
functions for MMA. It has started to compile overall estimates of public
investments in the key sectors and by different agencies, which would form a
basis for deciding on a public investment strategy for MMA. The role of
MMDA in investment planning is strictly of an advisory nature. It does not
have any authority or control over the other GTN agencies, other than in its
normal land-use control activities. However, most of the key GTN agencies
involved in the development of MMA are represented on MMDA's governing board,
which enables it to act as an effective inter-agency coordinating body. MMDA
also acts as a Secretariat for the Center/State Review Committee which was
set-up in October 1975 to review projects and schemes undertaken for the de-
velopment of MMA. The preparation of the proposed project covering different
sectors and agencies was also the responsibility of MMDA. A detailed des-
cription of MMDA's functions is given in paras 5.01-5.04.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The main objective of the project is to develop and promote low-
cost solutions to Madras' problems in the sectors of shelter, employment,
water supply, sewerage and transport, and particularly to make the invest-
ments responsive to the needs of the urban poor. To ensure replicability,
the project will introduce full cost recovery for key investments for which
costs have traditionally not been fully recovered. The project will also
strengthen metropolitan planning and capital programming and budgeting.
B. Main Features
3.02      To achieve the above objectives, the project comprises:
(a) Sites and Services: Serviced residential plots, core
housing units (partially completed houses which can be
completed and/or expanded in stages by the owners),
self-help building materials, and community facilities
for about 13,500 primarily low-income households (about
74,000 persons), and serviced land for commercial and
industrial uses, at three sites covering a total area of
175 ha;
(b) Slum Improvement: Basic infrastructure services and
community facilities in 85 slum areas covering an area
of 185 ha with a population of 23,000 households (126,500
persons), with open plots to be developed for an addi-
tional 7,500 households (41,250 persons);



(c) Small-Scale Business: Serviced plots, work sheds, equip-
ment, finance and training to create about 4,000 jobs in
small-scale business activities and an additional 5,000
jobs in cottage industry in the sites and services and
slum improvement project areas;
(d) Maternal and Child Health: Training, equipment and build-
ings to provide supplementary nutrition, health examinations
and immunization for an estimated 17,000 children under the
age of 6 years and some 7,000 expectant and nursing mothers,
and health, nutrition and family planning education and
functional literacy training for about 20,000 adult women
from the beneficiary households under the sites and services
and slum improvement components;
(e) Water Supply and Sewerage: Measures to rehabilitate the
existing systems and to bring early relief to the poorest
segments of the population, particularly those using public
standpipes and those living in slum areas;
(f) Road and Traffic Improvements: Construction of a part of
the Inner Ring Road; construction and improvement of foot-
paths, bicycle tracks, carriageways, pedestrian subways
and river crossings; street lighting; and traffic engineer-
ing measures to improve circulation;
(g) Bus Transport: Replacement of overaged buses and con-
struction of depots, terminals and passenger shelters; and
(h) Technical Assistance: Five advisers for two years and
consultants' services to assist in development planning,
capital programming, and project monitoring and evaluation.
3.03      The sites and services, slum improvement, small-scale business and
maternal and child health components are mainly located to the west and north
of the city center where they will have a major developmental impact on the
whole area, with a total population of about one million, most of whom are
low-income. Most high-income areas are located south of the city center.
The water supply and sewerage component will, inter alia, help improve water
supply and sanitation in most of the project areas. The road and traffic
improvements cover a wide area and will benefit low-income groups, mainly
pedestrians and cyclists, in most of MMA. The bus transport component
will similarly benefit most of the low-income population, although not the
poorest; the major objective of the component is, however, to reduce the
future investment requirements of the bus company through appropriate policy
measures and to improve its financial situation to minimize the present drain
on the financial resources of GTN.



-8-
C. Detailed Description
Sites and Services
3.04      About 175 ha of land will be developed at three sites, Arumbakkam
(34 ha), Villivakkam (53 ha) and Kodungaiyur (87 ha), located west and north-
west of the city center (Map IBRD 12401). The component includes (see Annex 2
and Maps IBRD 12403, IBRD 12404, IBRD 12405):
(a) Residential Plots: preparation and servicing of about
13,470 ploti of five different sizes (40, 46.5, 74.3, 139.4,
and 223.0 m ), with roads, drainage, and individual water
supply and2sewerage connections (about 75% of the plots
are 46.5 m  or less);
(b) Core Housing Units: construction of about 9,760 core
housing units, of which about 6,230 would have only com-
pleted shower and toilet facilities (sanitary core) costing
US$145 each, 2,740 would have a sanitary core and common
lateral walls with a thatched roof at a total cost of
US$250, and 790 would have a sanitary core and two small
completed rooms at a total cost of US$665; plot and
core development options and their possible evolution
are illustrated in Sketches 1-3;
(c)  Commercial and Industrial Sites:  preparation and servicing
of about 9.5 ha of commercial and 11.4 ha of industrial land;
(d) Building Materials: materials for self-help completion of
the core housing units;
(e)  Community Facilities: construction on each of the three
sites of two primary schools, one high (secondary) school,
one clinic/health center and one community hall; and
(f) Trunk Infrastructure: construction of access roads,
drainage channel (at Villivakkam), trunk water main (at
Arumbakkam), water wells with over-head tanks (at
Villivakkam and Kodungaiyur), trunk sewers (at Arumbakkam
and Kodungaiyur), sewage oxidation pond (at Villivakkam),
and pumping stations.
3.05      The layouts for the three sites have been designed to make full
use of the employment potential of the sites. Areas have been set aside
for business and commercial uses along the corridors which connect the sites
with adjacent urban areas and small-scale industries are located closest
to major transport arteries. The emphasis on strategic development of com-
mercial and industrial areas, combined with differential land pricing with-
in the project on the basis of the locational value of plots, permits the



- 9 -
40 m  plots with sanitary cores and self-help building materials to be sold
at a price of only about US$220 each, with full cost recovery still being
achieved for the three sites. The 40 m plots (45% of the total) are afford-
able by households down to the 10th percentile of the MMA income distribution
(see para 4.11).
Slum Improvement
3.06      The slum improvement component will provide security of tenure
and basic infrastructure improvements in 85 slums with about 23,000 house-
holds and covering a total area of about 185 ha, all of which is publicly
owned. Typical existing slum conditions are illustrated in Photos I and 2.
The infrastructure improvements include (see Annex 3):
(a) new and improved roads, footpaths and drainage (storm
and waste water), with vehicular access provided no
more than 50 m from each hut and pedestrian access
provided for each hut;
(b)  water supply, with one public standpipe per 10 house-
holds;
(c) public latrines and washing facilities, with one
toilet and one bath facility per 10 households; and
(d) community facilities: 10 primary schools, 3 high
schools, plots for pre-schools (1 per 100 households,
see para 3.13) and cottage industry centers (1 per
365 households, see para 3.11).
3.07      Infrastructure costs, excluding community facilties, average
Rs 1,300 (US$145) per household. Since most of the slums are small and
surrounded by built-up areas with schools and other community facilities
which are available to them, only limited provision of such facilities @s
required under the project. Among the pressing needs of the slums are to
provide appropriate employment opportunities and improvement of nutrition
and health among children. Special attention has therefore been given Lo
these aspects (see paras 3.10-3.13).
3.08      The densities of the slums vary substantially from less tha-r 100
households per ha to more than 350 households per ha. In the low density
slums, infrastructure designed in accordance with the above standards sill
be provided to allow for higher-density settlement on vacant 2land on2 the
fringes of the slums. An estimated 7,500 open plots of 20 m - 40 m size
will be delineated and sold in these areas, with no on-plot facilities. These
plots are affordable by the poorest households in Madras. Furthermore,
vacant land around major access points to the slums and in other locations
with high commercial potential will be developed and sold at market priCeS
for commercial and industrial purposes. Typical improvements are illustrated
in Sketch 4 and 5 for a low density slum and a high density slum, respect-
ively.



- 10 -
3.09      About two thirds of the slums, and the Villivakkam and Kodungaiyur
sites, would obtain water from local wells to be provided under the project.
The amount and quality of groundwater available in each area are adequate.
All local distribution systems are to be built to allow connection to the
central distribution system when sufficient water is available from central
sources.
Small-Scale Business
3.10      About 120 plots will be provided with work sheds on about 4.0 ha
of the 11.4 ha of land set aside for small-scale industry under the sites
and services component. The remaining 7.4 ha will be sold without sheds to
prospective entr2preneurs. Three types of work sheds, with floor areas of
56, 93 and 186 m , will be built. The smallest type (one third of the total)
will also have a living area on an upper level. Loans will be provided for
machinery and equipment. Local banks, which will locate branch offices on
the three sites, are expected to provide working capital. The businesses are
expected to employ a total of about 4,000 persons and to manufacture and/or
repair such items as bicycle and automobile parts, electrical equipment, metal
products, furniture, leather products, paper products and textile products.
The average investment per job created is about US$800 (see Annex 4).
31ii      Training, equipment, and about 100 training-cum-work sheds
w1i111 be provided to create about 5,000 jobs in the homes of the 44,000 house-
nolds living in the sites and services and slum improvement project areas.
About 50 persons will be trained at each training center for a period of
about one year. After the training period, the training centers will be con-
verted into production centers, each of which is expected to become finan-
cially viable. The production centers will be initially owned by Tamil Nadu
Handicrafts Development Corporation (TNHDC), which will be responsible for
their operation and management. After a period of 2-3 years, these centers
would be converted into cooperatives of workers, if this is considered feasi-
ble. There has not been enough experience to date with this approach and it
is difficult to predict whether in fact these cooperatives would be successful.
TNHDC would continue to own and operate the centers if the experience with
cooperatives is not favorable. The production will be based on raw materials
such as palm leaf, cane, bamboo, and other fibers. The starting up of the
centers has been phased over a two-year period from August 1977 on the basis
of the availability of instructors. The average investment per job created
is about US$225.
1f4aternal and Child Health
3_I2      The component includes training, equipment, buildings and recur-
ring expenditures during the three-year project period, to provide the fol-
lowing package of services to the households living in the sites and services
and slum improvement areas:



- 11 -
(a) Supplementary Nutrition: the food supplement "Balahar"
will be provided to children below the age of 6 years and
to nursing mothers to fill the substantial protein and
calorie requirement gap identified in surveys (Tamil Nadu
Nutrition Study, carried out in 1970-1973);
(b) Health Examinations: regular health examinations, care and,
in serious cases, referral services will be provided for
nursing and expectant mothers and children below the age
of 6 years;
(c) Immunization: children under the age of 6 years will be
immunized against smallpox, diphtheria, tetanus, whooping
cough, typhoid and polio, and expectant mothers will be
immunized against tetanus;
(d) Nursery and Pre-School Education: nursery services will be
provided for children under 3 years of age and pre-school
education for children 3-5 years old; and
(e) Health and Nutrition Education and Functional Literacy
Training: women in the age group 15-44 years will be
educated on fundamental aspects of health, nutrition
and family planning through house contacts, films, classes,
etc., and will also be asked to participate in functional
literacy classes.
3.13      The above services will be provided thE ough pre-schools or "child
welfare centers", each with a floor area of 41 m and costing about
US$1,100 including equipment. Each center will be staffed by a "Balasevika"
with two helpers. The Balasevikas are to be trained under the project for
about four months. Community workers are to discuss the program with each
community, assess the acceptability of the program and assist in its imple-
mentation. Project costs are based on an estimated 50% acceptance rate
(see Annex 5).
Water Supply and Sewerage
3.14      GTN estimates that investments of the order of Rs 150 crores
(US$167 million) would be required in MMA over the next decade to ensure
adequate services in the sector. IDA missions to Madras have over the past
four years reviewed the problems of the sector and assisted GOI, GTN and
UNDP/WHO to define and initiate the master plan and feasibility studies now
under way (para 2.13). Major investments in the sector in MMA will not be
possible prior to 1980-81, when the feasibility studies would be available.
However, in view of the critical water supply and sewerage situation in MMA,
the project would support a limited program of immediate upgrading and reha-
bilitation works which would bring early relief. The local government agen-
cies have identified a number of possible alternative investments and proposed
a package of immediate works for inclusion in the project. These include



- 12 -
improvements to water supply headworks and transmission systems, water treat-
ment facilities, pumping stations, distribution and metering systems, rehabil-
itation of old mains and rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing sewage
treatment plant (see Annex 6 and Map IBRD 12408 for location of these works).
These proposals have been reviewed and on the basis of a preliminary assessment
of the magnitude of investments which are likely to be required for the imme-
diate works program, the implementation capacity of the executing agencies,
and the overall financing constraints of the sector, the project includes an
allocation of Rs 8.1 crores (US$9.0 million) in 1976 prices for these works.
An investment of this magnitude, although very small in comparison with the
needs of the sector, will nevertheless provide an early and badly needed
relief to the population of MMA.
3.15      The UNDP/WHO consultants will make a further detailed technical and
economic review of these proposals based on which detailed designs and tender
documents will be prepared. The consultants' review is expected to be com-
pleted by March 31, 1977. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
(a) the final selection of works; (b) final engineering designs; and (c) im-
plementation arrangements will be satisfactory to IDA.
Road and Traffic Improvements
3.16      The road and traffic improvement component is specifically designed
to benefit pedestrians, cyclists and bus riders who undertake a major portion
of all trips in the metropolitan area. The elements included in this component
are (see Map IBRD 12402 and Annex 7):
(a) construction of about 12 km of the Inner Ring Road, be-
tween G.S.T. Road and Madras-Tiruvallur Road, designed
as a 7.0 m wide two-lane single carriageway with a 2.0 m
wide cycle track on each side;
(b) improvement of about 200 km of footpaths and about 50 km
of cycle tracks, and street lighting at 24 intersections
with high accident rates;
(c) construction of nine pedestrian subways (underground street
crossings);
(d) grade separation at two road/rail intersections;
(e) improvement and construction of seven minor bridges for
river and canal crossings;
(f) traffic engineering measures and carriageway improve-
ments at selected road links and intersections; and
(g) establishment of three separate units for traffic
engineering, planning and enforcement and provision of
equipment such as street signs, road painting equipment,



- 13 -
guard rails, flashing beacons, traffic signals, weigh
bridges, radar equipment, noise level detectors and
smoke detection apparatus.
Bus Transport
3.17      The component includes (see Map IBRD 12401 and Annex 8):
(a) replacement of 285 overaged buses in the fleet of Pallavan
Transport Corporation (PTC), over three years 1977/78 -
1979/80;
(b) construction of two major and one minor depot for bus
repairs and servicing;
(c) construction of eight bus terminals; and
(d) construction of 400 passenger shelters.
3.18      The total bus procurement requirement over the three-year project
period is estimated at about 550 buses of which 380 buses would be for
replacement and 170 for augmentation. The project would meet the replace-
ment needs of PTC which cannot be financed from internally generated funds.
Fleet augmentation will be financed from borrowings outside the project.
The augmentation program entails only a 3.5% annual increase in the size of
the bus fleet, or about 55% of the anticipated 6.5% annual growth in total
bus travel demand. The gap will be met through measures aimed at reducing
demand during peak hours and improving fleet utilization, including the
following:
(a) a system of staggered working hours was put into effect
by GTN in the metropolitan area during July and August
1976; working hours in all government offices, schools
and universities were changed to achieve a spreading
of peak travel demand; and
(b) a system of bus licenses restricting the use of each
bus to a particular route was abolished by GTN in
August 1976 and the added flexibility allowed in the
programming of the fleet is estimated to yield a 5%
capacity increase.
3.19      The estimated replacement need of 380 buses is also based on an
assumed average bus life of 12 years instead of 8 years as previously assumed
by PTC. Cost statistics assembled by PTC show that by scheduling the buses
according to age instead of, as presently, without consideration of age, the
economic life is raised to about 12 years (old buses will be used less than
new buses, mainly during peak hours and on short routes). The necessary
rescheduling of buses was implemented during October 1976.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
3.20      In order to develop particularly MMDA's capabilities in urban
development planning (see MMDA's work program in Annex 13), the project
includes the following technical assistance and related equipment:
(a)  five advisers to MMDA for two years, in the following
fields (see Annex 9 for draft job descriptions which
were agreed on during negotiations):
(i) urban planner;
(ii) urban economist;
(iii) financial analyst - capital programming;
(iv) financial analyst - municipal finance; and
(v) small-scale business expert;
(b)  short-term consultants' services to assist in project
monitoring and evaluation by MMDA and in revising the
accounting system of Madras Corporation;
(c)  aerial photography and related equipment for the preparation
of a long-term slum improvement program (see para 5.16); and
(d)  training of staff.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost is estimated at Rs 46.8 crores (US$52.0
million), with a foreign exchange component of Rs 7.2 crores (US$8.0 mil-
lion) or about 15% of project cost. Land acquisition costs included are
about Rs 1.7 crores (US$1.9 million). Cost estimates are detailed in Annex
2-9 for each component and are summarized below:



Percent    Percentl
Rs Crores                 US$ Million           Foreign       oz
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange    Total
Sites and Services
1.  Land Ic Infrastructure                3.7       0.7      4.4       4.1      0.8      4.9
2.  Housing core units                    1.7       0.2     1.9        1.9      0.2      2.1
3.  Self-help building materials          0.5        -      0.5        o.6       -      0.6
4. Co-nmunity facilities                  0.2        -      0.2        0.2       -      0.2
Sub-total, A                          o.1       0.9     7.0        6.8      1.0     7.8      13          15
B.  Slum Improvement
1.  Infrastructure                        3.7       0.5      4.2       4.1      o.6      4.7
2.  Community facilities                  0.2        -      0.2        0.2       -      0.2
Sub-total, B                          3.9       0.5     4.4        4.3      o.6     4.9      12           9
C. Small-Scale Business
1. Work sheds and machinery
loans for small industry              1.2       0.2     1.4        1.4      0.2     1.6
2.  Training, equipment, and sheds
for cottage industry                  0.7        -      0.7        0.8       -      0.8
Sub-total, C                          1.9       0.2     2.1        2.2      0.2     2.4       8           -
D.  Iaternal & Child Health                    o.6       -       o.6        0.7      -       0.7       -          1
E.  Water Supply and Sewerage                  6.7      1.4      8.1        7.4     1.6      9.0 Z  18           17
F.  Road and Traffic Improvements
1.  12 km of Inner Ring Road              1.5       0.3      1.8       1.7      0.3      -.0
2.  9 pedestrian subways and 250 kcm
of footpaths and cycle tracks         1.8       0.3     2.1        2.0      0.3     2.3
3.  2 grade separations                   0.8       0.2     1.0        0.9      0.2     1.1
4. City street improvement,
minor bridges                         1.1       0.2     1.3        1.2      0.3      1.5
5. Traffic engineering,
management and
enforcement equipment                _o.4       0.3     0.7        o.4     0.4    _0.8
Sub-total, 7                          5.6       1.3     6.9        6.2      1.5     7.7      19          15
G. Bus Transport
1.  285 buses                             3.5       0.3      3.8       3.9      0.3      4.2
2.  3 depots, 8 terminals and
400 passenger shelters                1.3       0.2     1.5        1.4      0.3     1.7
Sub-total, G                          4.8       0.5     5.3        5.3      0.6      5.9     11
H. Technical Assistance
1.  Advisers to MMDA                        0.1      0.3      0.4        0.1     0.3      0.4
2.  Consultants' services and
aerial photography                     0.2       0.1      0.3       0.3      0.1      0.4
Sub-total, H                           0.3       0.4     0.7        o.4      o.4     0.8      50           2
Sub-Total, A - H                      29.9       5.2    35.1       33.3      5.9    39.2      15          75
I. Contingencies
1.  Physical                                2.4      0.5      2.9        2.6     0.5      3.1
2.  Price                                   7.3      1.5      8.8        8.1     1.6      9.7
,ub-total, I                           9.7       2.0    11.7       10.7      2.1    12.8      16          25
TOTAL                                 39.6       7.2    46.8       44.0      8.o    52.0/1   15          100
71   Of which an estimated total of US$2.9 million is in taxes and duties.



- 16 -
4.02      Cost estimates for the sites and services and roads components and
for the minor civil works that are part of the bus component are based on
final engineering designs. Estimates for the slum improvement component are
based on preliminary engineering designs for representative slums. Final
engineering designs for the slums are to be completed as implementation pro-
gresses. Estimates for the small-scale business and maternal and child health
components are based on preliminary engineering designs for infrastructure and
buildings and on recent cost experience in similar schemes in Madras. Esti-
mates for the water supply and sewerage components are based on preliminary
engineering designs which will be further reviewed and, if necessary, amended
by the UNDP/WHO consultants (para 3.15). Estimates for bus chassis and bodies
are based on recent bids and quotations by leading Indian and foreign manufac-
turers. Average man-month cost for consultants are estimated to be US$6,000
for foreign consultants and US$1,000 for local consultants.
4.03      All costs are expressed in March 1976 prices.  Physical contingencies
of 10% have been included for all items except for buses and for land. Price
contingencies have been estimated at 8% in 1976 and 12% per year thereafter
for civil works, and at 8% per year for equipment and supplies, in accordance
with IDA guidelines. The base costs for all items except buses include 12.5%
for the cost of engineering, supervision and administration by the implement-
ing agencies.
4.04      There are no land acquisition problems expected in the project.
Most of the land for sites and services and all land for slum improvement,
which accounts for most of the land requirements, is government-owned. The
remaining land required for sites and services, bus depots, bus terminals and
the Inner Ring Road, has already been acquired. The project involves no re-
location of families, except in-slum improvement areas where less than 4% of
the households will have to be relocated to make room for infrastructure
facilities. To the limited extent that such relocation will be necessary,
households will be resettled, as part of the project, in close proximity to
their present locations.
B. Execution
4.05      The project will be executed by existing GTN agencies.  Respons-
ibilities are as follows:



- 17 -
Project Component                     Agency Responsible
A.   Sites and Services                Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB)
B.   Slum Improvement                  Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
(TNSCB)
C.   Small-Scale Business
- Small industry                  Small Industries Development
Corporation (SIDCO)
- Cottage industry                Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development
Corporation (TNHDC)
D.   Maternal & Child Health           Department of Social Welfare (DSW)
E.   Water Supply and Sewerage         Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage
Board (TWAD) and Madras Corporation
(MC)
F.   Roads and Traffic Improvements
- Inner Ring Road, pedestrian   Department of Highways & Rural
subways, grade separations,   Works (DHRW)
minor bridges
- Footpaths, cycle tracks         Madras Corporation
and road improvements
- Traffic Management              Police and DHRW
G.   Bus Transport                     Metropolitan Wing of Pallavan
Transport Corporation
(PTC)
H.   Technical Assistance              Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority (MMDA)
4.06      All agencies have the necessary capability to carry out their
obligations under the project. The allocation of responsibilities between
TWAD and Madras Corporation for implementing each element of the water supply
and sewerage component will be determined on the basis of the review by the
UNDP/WHO consultants (paras 3.14 - 3.15). MMDA will be responsible for
coordination, monitoring and evaluation. Additional staff requirements for
MMDA to carry out this function have been identified (see Annex 13) and were
agreed to during negotiations. MIDA will also prepare quarterly progress



- 18 -
reports on the project for submission to IDA. Assurances were obtained
from GTN during negotiations that MMDA will be designated as the represent-
ative of GTN for the purpose of coordinating and carrying out the project
in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
4.07      Most of the project will be implemented over a three-year period,
April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1980, while implementation of the water supply and
sewerage component is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981. The Closing
Date will be September 30, 1981. An implementation schedule is in Chart 2.
Annex 10 contains a detailed schedule of initial key implementation actions.
C. Financing
4.08      The proposed IDA Credit of US$24.0 million (Rs 21.6 crores) will
finance about 46% of total project cost, or 50% of the project cost less
(a) taxes and duties (US$2.9 million) and (b) expenditures on bus bodies
(US$1.1 million) which will not be procured through competitive bidding
(see para 4.21). The Credit will be made available to GOI which will pass
it on to GTN on its standard terms and conditions as part of Central assist-
ance to States. The balance, US$28.0 million (Rs 25.2 crores), will be
provided by GTN which will pass on the total project funds of US$52 million to
the implementing agencies as shown in the following table (US$ million):



- 19 -
Financing (US$ million)
of
Direct         which
Implementing  GTN    GTN      GTN            IDA
Project Component             Agency       Loans  Grants  Expend-/-- Total Funds
A.  Sites & Services            TNHB          -    10.0     0.4 /b  10.4   4.2
B.  Slum Improvement            TNSCB        -      6.3      0.4 /c   6.7   3.0
C.  Small-Scale Business        SIDCO        -       -      2.1       2.1   1.5
TNHDC         -     0.6      0.5      1.1   0.2
D.  Maternal & Child Health   DSW             -      -       0.9      0.9   0.2
E.  Water Supply & Sewerage   TWAD/MC       6.2    6.2       -       12.4   5.2
F.  Road & Traffic             DHRW          -       -      4.7       4.7   2.0
Improvements
MC           5.0 /d  -        -       5.0   2.0
Police       -       -       0.4      0.4   0.2
G.  Bus Transport               PTC          7.3     -        -       7.3   4.5
H.  Technical Assistance       MMDA          -      1.0      -        1.0   1.0
TOTAL                                 18.5   24.1      9.4      52.0  24.0
/a   Passed on as grants to implementing agencies other than GTN departments.
/b   Schools:  US$0.3 million (budgeted by Department of Education); health
centers: US$0.05 million (Department of Health); community halls:
US$0.01 million (Department of Social Welfare).
/c   Schools:  US$0.4 million.
/d   Of which US$2.5 million to be passed on to DHRW for execution of
selected works on behalf of MC.
4.09      The terms of the GTN loans will be as follows:  to TWAD/MC (US$12.4
million, with the allocation between the two agencies to be determined), one-
half of the amount as grant and one-half as loan at 11% and 20 years with 3
years grace; to MC (US$5.0 million), 11% and 20 years with 3 years grace; and
to PTC (US$7.3 million), 10.5% and 15 years with 1 year grace. The different
terms proposed for the different agencies correspond with current standard GTN
practice. GTN has agreed to provide the project funds to TNHB and TNSCB on a
grant basis to enable the two agencies to set up revolving funds from the cost
recoveries (see paras 4.12 and 4.15) to finance continuing sites and services



- 20 -
and slum improvement programs. The Government expenditures for the small-scale
business component would be passed on as loans to individual entrepreneurs by
SIDCO and TNHDC, which will execute the component on behalf of GTN. The grant
to TNHDC is for training expenditures.
D. Cost Recovery
4.10      Under the project, strong emphasis has been placed on cost recovery,
particularly for the sites and services and slum improvement components, to
ensure replicability and to allow the programs initiated through the project
to be expanded to reach the majority of Madras' poor. This section deals with
these two components, and with the small-scale business and the water supply
and sewerage components. Concerning the roads and traffic improvements compo-
nent, road user charges in the metropolitan area exceed expenditures on road
construction, road maintenance and traffic management by a factor of three, so
cost recovery presents no problems. Cost recovery for the bus component is
dealt with on an institutional basis in the discussion of Pallavan Transport
Corporation (see paras 5.11 - 5.13). The urgent need to raise additional muni-
cipal revenues to provide adequate services to the rapidly growing population
of Madras and also to cover the cost of maintenance and operation of public
facilities provided under the project is dealt with in the discussion of
Madras Corporation (see paras 5.05 - 5.10).
Sites and Services Component
4.11      The cost of land, earthworks, roads, drainage, on-site water supply
and sewerage, and core housing will be recovered by TNHB from the beneficiaries
through direct plot sales with a minimum down payment of 10% and the balance
to be paid over 12 to 20 years (depending on the plot type and the income of
the purchaser) at 12% annual interest rate. A freehold title will be issued
to the purchaser. Sale prices will be differentiated on the basis of the
locational value of the plots with full cost recovery ensured for the component
as a whole (see Annex 2). The cost of self-help building materials will be
repaid on the same terms. The land, most of which is Government-owned, has
been priced at its estimated market value without improvements. The cost of
off-site or trunk water supply and sewerage infrastructure will be recovered
through water and sewerage charges (see para 4.19). The following table shows
the total number of plots to be sold at the three sites, the average sale
prices, and the income levels reached:



-21 -
Average sale
price per plot                    Target
Plot                  incl. housing        Monthly   Income Levels
sire   Total number  cores & building   payment   Rs per  Percen-
Type of Plot    (m )    of plots         materials (Rs)        (Rs)    Month    tile
EWS - A           40        6,228           1,975               20    150-200    9-19
EWS - B           46.5      2,742           3,002               30    200-300   19-45
EWS - C /a        46.5        792           6,647               66    300-350   45-57
LIG - D /b        74.3      2,077           3,690               40    350-450   57-71
LIG - E lb       139.4      1,207           6,435               70    450-600   71-82
MIG - F /c       223          421          10,845              128    600-1,000 82-94
/a   No self-help building materials.
lb   No on-plot development; repayment period 15 years.
Ic   No on-plot development; repayment period 12 years.
Prime commercial land and small industry land wilt be sold at market value,
estimated at at an average of Rs 90 (US$10) per m . Confirmation was ob-
tained during negotiations that (a) settler selection criteria, including
income levels, and (b) terms and conditions for plot sales will be satis-
factory to IDA.
4.12      All revenues from plot and land sales will go into a revolving fund
to be set up by TNHB. Annual contributions to the fund under this project are
estimated at about Rs 10 million (US$1.1 million) from 1980 (Annex 2, Table 6).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such a fund will be estab-
lished by April 1, 1978 and maintained separately for financing sites and
services schemes.
Slum Improvement
4.13      GTN has agreed to provide the slum dwellers with security of tenure
as part of the improvement package by selling the improved and open plots to
the inhabitants on hire-purchase basis, with freehold titles to be issued on
completion of payments. GTN orders to this effect were issued in August 1976.
Cost recovery for slum improvement will be achieved through (a) monthly pay-
ments over 20 years averaging Rs 8 (US$0.9) per plot; and (b) sale at market
prices of vacant land in prime locations, mainly at access points to the
slums, for commercial and industrial purposes (see Annex 3). Payments under
(a) will vary with plot size and location and the indicated average would



- 22 -
apply to a typical 20 m  plot in a centrally located dense slum and to a
typical 40 m plot in a less dense slum on the fringe of the city. GTN
has also specified a Rs 2 (US$0.2) monthly service charge per plot to cover
the cost of operation and maintenance of public facilities. The average
monthly payment totalling Rs 10 (US$1.11) amounts to about 5% of the average
monthly household income in the slums and is equal to the rents presently
paid for resettlement flats (para 2.15). Confirmation was obtained during
negotiations that (a) freehold titles will be issued; and (b) monthly hire-
purchase payments averaging Rs 8 per plot and a monthly service charge of
Rs 2 per plot will be collected.
4.14      At terms of 12% annual interest rate, the hire-purchase payments
would recover about 67% of the directly chargeable cost of slum improvement.
Another 25% would be recovered through the sale of commercial and industrial
land, giving a total recovery of about 90% of directly chargeable costs.
Directly chargeable costs exclude the cost of community facilities and off-
site infrastructure and amount to about 75% of total cost of the component.
The opportunity cost of the land, which is publicly owned, would not be
recovered, however. As cost recovery for slum improvement has not previously
been attempted in Madras and in view of the present rent level in resettle-
ment flats, the cost recovery factor of approximately 90% under the project
is satisfactory and the maximum which is politically feasible over the short
term. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as part of the prepa-
ration of a long-term slum improvement program (see para 5.16), an assess-
ment will be made of (a) actual expenditures incurred for improvement and for
operation and maintenance and (b) the extent to which payments cover these
expenditures. This assessment will be taken into account in the design of
the long-term program.
4.15      All revenues from plot and land sales will go into a revolving fund
to be set up by TNSCB. Annual contributions to the fund under this project
are estimated at about Rs 4 million (US$0.4 million) in 1980. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that such a fund will be established by April 1,
1978 and maintained separately for financing slum improvement schemes.
4.16      Cost recovery is unsatisfactory under the present slum clearance and
resettlement program and the program is not replicable on a larger scale (less
than 10% of cost is recovered, para 2.15). However, due to the political
volatility of the program and to commitments that have already been made for
clearance, the program cannot be abolished at this stage. GTN has neverthe-
less agreed to shift the emphasis toward slum improvement, as exemplified by
the proposed slum improvement component itself. Assurances were also obtained
during negotiations that (a) the slum clearance program would be limited pri-
marily to committed schemes, with any additional schemes to be taken up only
4n accordance with the long-term slum improvement program to be prepared (see
para 5.16), and (b) annual expenditures on slum clearance during the project
period April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1981 would be no higher than Rs 3.75 crores
(US$4.2 million), the minimum amount consistent with existing commitments,
most of which consist of schemes already under way. GTN has also initiated



- 23 -
a program to provide over the next two years a minimal number of water taps,
public latrines and street lights in all slums not covered by the proposed
project, with further improvements including tenure to be provided there-
after in accordance with the long-term slum improvement program. Total
expenditures under this accelerated program are estimated at about Rs 2.5
crores (US$2.8 million). Consequently, whereas annual expenditures on slum
improvement now represent less than 10% of TNSCB's total expenditures, the
proportion would increase to about 50% during the project period and is ex-
pected to approach 100%,' during the early 1980's. Furthermore, GTN has agreed
to undertake by December 31, 1977 an income survey of the households now
living in the flats built for resettlement under the clearance program, to
ascertain the levels to which the rents could reasonably be raised; confirma-
tion of this was obtained during negotiations and agreement was also reached
on terms of reference for the survey.
Small-Scale Business
4.17      Small Industry:  The costs related to small industry, including
(a) t e cost of serviced land in the three sites and services areas at Rs 90
per m ; (b) the cost of providing worksheds; and (c) loans for machinery will
be recovered by SIDCO on behalf of GTN from the beneficiaries at 11% over 9
years. A 2.5% spread will allow SIDCO to cover its expenditures for adminis-
tration and technical assistance, providing GTN with an effective interest
rate of 8.5%. There is some risk inherent in this component to the extent
that GTN may experience a somewhat higher default rate because of the very
small size of enterprises to be supported. However, in keeping with GTN's
policy to encourage the development of small-scale industries, it is believed
that this risk is justified.
4.18      Cottage Industry:  The cost of training and related materials will
be borne by GTN and will not be recovered, while the cost of sheds and equip-
ment will be recovered through sales from each production center/cooperative
at 11% over 15 years, with payments starting after completion of the training.
Water Supply and Sewerage
4.19      As part of its property tax, Madras Corporation levies a water and
drainage tax of 7% on annual rental values of property. Additional revenues
are derived from water and sewerage connection fees and water meter rentals.
Annual expenditures in the sector substantially exceed revenues, however, and
no allowance is made for replacement. The failure to provide for adequate
financing in the sector is the principal reason for its poor condition and
the low standards of operation and maintenance. The UNDP/WHO study will make
detailed recommendations for long term improvements but assurances were ob-
tained at negotiations that Madras Corporation or any other agency assigned
the responsibility for water supply and sewerage services in MMA as a result
of the consultants' review will: (a) with effect from April 1, 1978, main-
tain water supply and sewerage accounts and funds related thereto separate
from all other accounts and funds; and (b) with effect from April 1, 1979,
impose specific water and sewerage charges and taxes to provide sufficient
cash flows to meet annual expenditures, including debt service, and provide
adequate working capital for these services.



- 24 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.20      Procurement of bus chassis (estimated total value of US$3.9 million)
and some of the water supply equipment and materials, such as pumps, water
treatment equipment and steel pipes (estimated value of US$1.1 million) will
be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Domestic manufacturers will be awarded a margin of preference
of 15%^o or the applicable custom duties, whichever is lower.
4.21      Contracts for all civil works, with an estimated total value of
USS33.0 million, for sites and serviccs, slum improvement, water supply and
sewerage, construction and improvement of roads, footpaths, cycle tracks and
m-nor bridges, worksheds for small businesses, child welfare centers, bus
denots, bus terminals and passenuer shelters will be individually small and
scattered. More than 200 individual contracts, ranging in value from
US$10,000 to US$1.0 million, with the bulk of the contracts below US$100,000,
will be awarded over the three-year project period. Although civil works
contracts in the same area will be combined as far as practical, only two
contracts are expected to have a value of about US$1.0 million each. More-
over, eight different agencies will be responsible for works in their respec-
tive sectors, and construction of several works will require implementation
schedules that are carefully balanced locationally and over time. These works
are not likelv to attract any foreign contractors, particularly as the domestic
contracting industry is well developed and mobilized, executing similar works
in the metropolitan area. These civil works contracts, together with con-
tracts totalling US$4.5 million for self-help building materials, the remainder
of equipment and supplies for water supply and sewerage, traffic engineering
and control equipment, and medical supplies will be procured under GTN proce-
dures of local competitive bidding, acceptable to IDA. The materials and
equipment contracts would be either of small sizes and unattractive to foreign
suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitive bidding by reasons of
high transportation cost. Bus bodies will be built by PTC's own workshop,
and the cost of the bodies (about US$1.1 million) is excluded from IDA financ-
ing. The workshop, which has about 30 years experience of bus body construc-
tion, is highly competitive and produces about 400 bodies annually for PTC,
as well as for other Indian bus companies. Advisers and consultants' services
would be obtained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
4.22      A schedule of disbursements of the IDA Credit is given in Annex 11.
Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a)  45% of expenditures for (i) civil works and (ii) goods
and equipment procured through local competitive bidding;
(b)  for expenditures on goods and equipment, including
bus chassis, procured through international competitive
bidding: 100% of the foreign expenditure if imported
and 100% of the ex-factory cost if procured from
local manufacturers;



- 25 -
(c) 100% of expenditures on loans made to small-scale
businesses for machinery and equipment; and
(d) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance.
Any savings after project completion will be cancelled.
F. Arcounts and Audit
4.23      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each executing
agency will maintain separate project accounts and that Ml4DA will compile
overall project accounts. Assurances were also obtained that annual audits
satisfactory to IDA will be made of the accounts and financial statements of
the executing agencies other than the Government departments (DHRW, DSW and
Police), and that the individual audited statements will be furnished to IDA
not later than eight months after the close of the fiscal year. Audit of the
accounts of Madras Corporation have been completed only through fiscal year
1973/74. GTN has agreed to take appropriate steps to bring the audits of the
Corporation accounts up-to-date and to furnish outstanding and future audited
statements to IDA as follows: (a) for 1974/75, by March 31, 1977; (b) for
1975/76, by July 31, 1977; (c) for 1976/77, by January 31, 1978; and (d) for
1977/78 and following years, within eight months of the close of the fiscal
year. Confirmation thereof was obtained during negotiations. Assurances
were also obtained that MMDA will prepare and submit to IDA quarterly progress
reports on the project including monitoring and evaluation results.
G. Supervision
4.24      About 140 man-weeks of IDA supervision will be required over the
project implementation period, with about 60 man-weeks during the first year.
Key implementation actions on which the supervision should focus initially
were agreed during negotiations and are listed in Annex 10.
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
A. Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
5.01      MMDA was established as a statutory authority in 1974 pursuant to
the Town and Country Planning Act of 1971 (amended). The governing board
of MMDA has 21 members, most of whom are senior government officials from
the agencies involved in the development of MMIA. One of the members
is appointed as a full-time member-secretary and is its chief executive
officer. MMDA employs a staff of 270, of which 35 are qualified planners,
architects and engineers. Its present organization is shown in Chart 3.



- 26 -
5.02      During its relatively brief existence,  1MDA has established itself
as a strong organization with a competent physical planning staff. However,
with its responsibility for the preparation and implementation of the proposed
project, MMDA has begun to make a necessary shift from traditional land use
and physical planning to more comprehensive urban development planning em-
phasizing social and economic development as well. Agreement has been reached
with 2NMMDA and GTN that to complete this shift and to make MMDA a true develop-
ment authority, its objectives and work program have to be specified and its
staff has to be strengthened and reorganized. A new organizational structure
has been outlined by MKDA and GTN; it is shown in Chart 4. A two-year work
program for MMJJA and the necessary key staff to carry it out is presented
in Annex 13, on which agreement was reached during negotiations. The project
includes the technical assistance required by MMDA to carry out the program
(para 3.20). Major features of the work prograi and the uew organization are
summarized below.
5.03      The main objectives of MMDA will be tc prepare economic, social
and spatial development programs for the metropolitan area, and to initiate,
monitor and evaluate their implementation. The programs are to aim at pro-
viding low-cost employment opportunities and urban services for the metro-
politan population, with particular emphasis on its poorer segments, while
considering overall resource mobilization constraints.  Rolling five-year and
annual capital budgets for the metropolitan area will also be prepared and
pr:oosed to the relevant state and local government  bodies.  For the present,
-25DA's role is expected to be one of advising GIN on relative sectoral
priorities, but after some experience has been gained from the metropolitan
capital budgeting, GTN would consider giving MMDA the power to determine
4ntersectoral investment allocations for MMA.
5.04      Three new departments are to be established within MMDA, for De-
velopment Planning, Capital Programming and Financial Management, and Community
Development Programs. The present three Area Development Planning departments
will be merged into one department and to the extent feasible, their routine
work will be transferred to the various local governments. A separate depart-
ment will be retained for monitoring and evaluating the proposed project.
B. Madras Corporation
0,05      Madras Corporation is constituted as an autonomous authority under
the Madras City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 as amended. It is normally
governed by a Council consisting of 120 elected members, who elect a mayor
from among themselves. The Council was, however, dissolved in 1974 by GTN
who installed a Special Officer to represent the State. A commissioner
appointed by GTN is the executive head of the Corporation. The primary
functions of the Corporation are to provide infrastructure facilities and
services like roads, water supply, sewerage, drainage, street lighting, con-
servancy, health facilities, elementary education, parks and playgrounds. Its
functions also include licensing of buildings and industries and collection of
local taxes.



- 27 -
5.06      The Corporation is organized into 14 central departments plus two
separate district organizations (North and South). The district organizations
are each headed by an Assistant Commissioner and handle all conservancy and
maintenance activities in their respective geographical areas. Isolation of
the responsiblity for maintenance activities area-wise and from the central
departments has not proved satisfactory, mainly because of coordination pro-
blems and the lack of an overall assessment of priorities between areas and
between maintenance and construction. This issue is for the water supply
and sewerage sectors being reviewed by the UNDP/WHO consultants. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Corporation will review by
December 31, 1977, in consultation with IDA, the organization of its road
maintenance activities to ensure that uniform and satisfactory standards of
maintenance are applied in Madras. Assurances were also obtained that a new
traffic engineering unit will be established under the City Engineer by July 1,
1977 to be responsible for improvements and construction of footpaths and cycle
tracks. The tasks of the unit are outlined in Annex 7, Appendix 1, on which
agreement was reached during negotiations. Further information on the Cor-
poration's responsibilities for implementing the roads component is in
Annex 7.
Finances
5.07      The Corporation obtains its revenues from a variety of sources
the most important of which is the property tax collections (about 50% of
total revenues of Rs 214 million (US$24 million) in 1975/76). GTN provides
minor grants for education, health, special programs, etc., which totalled
Rs 16 million (US$2 million) in 1975/76. Capital expenditures (Rs 75 million
(US$8 million) in 1975/76) are financed through loans and grants from GTN and
loans from the Life Insurance Corporation of India. Until recently, the Cor-
poration has consistently generated deficits on its current accounts and only
in 1975/76 did it generate a small surplus. Deficits in the water supply,
sewerage, and drainage and education accounts are particularly large and are
increasing (Rs 13 million (US$1.4 million) in 1975/76). The Corporation does
not make allowances for depreciation. The debt-service ratio is high and
fluctuating (28% of self-generated revenues in 1973/74 and 15% in 1975/76).
Over the last five years, self-generated revenues of the Corporation have
increased by 12% annually in current terms but declined by 4% annually in
real per capita terms (see Annex 12).
5.08      The finances of the Corporation have been a subject of continuing
concern to GTN. In 1970, consultants (IBCON Pvt. Ltd.) were retained to
examine the tax assessment and collection procedures and a high level govern-
ment committee was appointed to review ways to enhance the Corporation's
revenues. A number of specific suggestions have emerged, particularly with
regard to assessment and collection procedures and related staff training, but
none have yet been implemented. Also, the Corporation needs to revise its
accounting procedures and institute proper financial management and control.
5.09      Agreement has been reached with GTN on a number of measures to
improve the financial situation of the Corporation and in May 1976 GTN
appointed a financial consultant to assist in their implementation:



- 28 -
(a) a Financial Management Department is being established
in the Corporation and it is to be headed by a Financial
Adviser;
(b) the accounting system of the Corporation is to be
revised by April 1, 1978, to more accurately reflect
the cost of the different services; and
(c)  the key recommendations of the consultants and the Govern-
ment committee for increasing the Corporation's revenues
are to be reviewed and implemented after consultation with
IDA.
5.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Financial
Management Department will be established and the Financial Adviser appointed
by July 1, 1977, and that the accounting system will be revised by April 1,
1978. Assurances were also obtained that starting with 1978/79 (a) the
necessary steps will be taken to increase the Corporation's total self-gene-
rated revenues, excluding water supply and sewerage taxes and charges (para
4.19), by a minimum of 8% annually over the project period, over and above
revenue increases achieved through the regular revision of property values,
and (b) the debt service of the Corporation (excluding water supply and
sewerage debts and revenues) in any one year will not exceed 20% of its
self-generated revenues. By meeting these objectives, the Corporation would
by the end of the project period be generating sufficient additional revenues
to (a) cover the additional annual expenditures of about Rs 5 million (US$0.6
million) imposed on the Corporation through the proposed project (debt service
for the road component, and maintenance and operating expenditures for the
sites and services, slum improvement, and road components); and (b) expand
services to meet an annual population growth of 3.5%.
C. Pallavan Transport Corporation
5.11      FTC is a GTN undertaking providing local and long distance bus
transport. Its Board of Directors is appointed by GTN. In 1975, PTC was
reorganized into three wings - the Metropolitan, District, and Express Wings -
each under a separate Managing Director and with separate accounts. The
Metropolitan Wing is solely responsible for bus services within the metropol-
itan area and will be responsible for implementing the proposed bus component.
5.12      The Metropolitan Wing of PTC is well run by a competent management.
It has instituted effective systems of financial and management controls and
has as a result achieved significant improvements in fleet utilization, fare
collection and operating costs. Nevertheless, the annual operating deficit
for the Metropolitan Wing, which in 1974/75 was less than 4% of operating
revenues, jumped to about 12% in 1975/76 because bus fares were not increased
until the end of the fiscal year.



- 29 -
5.13      In order to improve the Metropolitan Wing's financial situation,
agreement has been reached with GTN on appropriate measures and their imple-
mentation has been initiated (paras 3.18-3.19): (a) bus fares were raised by
an average of 22% in March 1976; (b) extensive staggering of working hours in
the metropolitan area has been introduced since July/August 1976, to improve
fleet utilization; (c) the licensing system restricting the use of buses to
particular routes was abolished in July 1976, also to improve fleet utiliza-
tion; and (d) rescheduling the use of buses according to age is being done to
allow for replacement after 12 years instead of 8 years. It is estimated that
the above measures will reduce the operating ratio 1/ from 112 in 1975/76 to
103 as early as 1976/77. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
thereafter the operating ratio will not exceed 99 for 1977/78, reducing pro-
gressively to 95 by 1980/81, which is equivalent to the following GTN objec-
tive being achieved by the end of the project period: the Metropolitan Wing
shall be generating sufficient revenues to (a) cover operating expenditures;
(b) service its debts; and (c) meet its normal replacement needs. Assurances
were also obtained that a debt service coverage ratio 2/ of not less than
1.5 will be maintained starting April 1,1978. These targets would be achieved
through a combination of operational improvements, cost reductions, and fare
increases as necessary. Further information on PTC, its organization, opera-
tion and finances is in Annex 8.
D. Other Executing Agencies
5.14      The other executing agencies are discussed in detail in the annexes,
together with the respective project component. Their staffing and organiza-
tion have been reviewed and found generally satisfactory. One or more separae
project execution units will be established by each executing agency. The
Department of Highways and Rural Works will establish a traffic engineering
unit to be responsible for the important development of appropriate traffic
engineering measures in Madras, including traffic circulation and signalingt
A traffic management unit will also be established by the Police. The tasks
of the units are outlined in Annex 7, Appendix 1. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the two units will be established by July 1, 1977.
E. Long-Term Improvement Programs for Madras' Poor
5.15      Many vital steps are being taken under the proposed project to
initiate development programs that are financially sustainable and that can
be expanded to reach the majority of Madras' slum dwellers and poor. Rough
estimates indicate that through this project the growth in the slum population
1/   The percentage of operating costs to operating revenue.  Operating
costs include depreciation but exclude interest, taxes on revenues,
and appropriations.
2/   The ratio of net revenue (gross revenue less operating costs) to debt
service costs.



- 30 -
will be halted during the project period (i.e. the present annual growth of
about 11,000 households in the total population living on unserviced land
w'ithout security of tenure will be eliminated); Chart 11 illustrates this
graphically. There will be a continuing impact after the project period
through future sites and services and slum improvement schemes financed from
cost recoveries accruing to the two revolving funds (paras 4.12 and 4.15).
5.16      MMDA has been given the responsibility by GTN to ensure that this
broad and long term view of the project and its potential impact is achieved
and that necessary steps are taken to permit the sites and services and slum
improvement programs to be expanded. An important element of MMDA's work
program is to prepare by June 30, 1978, in cooperation with the Tamil Nadu
Housing and Slum Clearance Boards, a program for improving all of Madras'
slums; confirmation of this was obtained during negotiations.  The program is
viewed as an extension of the proposed project and would incorporate its key
features. Agreement was reached on the terms of reference in Annex 13,
Appendix 2 for preparing the program. Assurances were also obtained that
GTN will provide to the revolving fund for slum improvement the additional
funds required, over and above cost recoveries from beneficiaries, to improve
by March 31, 1985 all slum areas in NIMA in accordance with this program. It
is estimated that this can be achieved without increasing the level of total
expenditures by the Slum Clearance Board above the level expected during the
project period. The Board would concentrate on improvements once the com-
mitted clearance schemes have been completed (para 4.16).
VI. JUSTIFICATION
601      The main objective of the project is to redirect a significant part
of public investments in the key sectors of housing, employment, social sup-
Dort services, water supply and transport, to directly benefit the low-income
pooulation of the metropolitan area. The concept of full cost recovery for key
n-vestments has been introduced in the project. This in turn dictated low-cost
design solutions affordable by the low-income beneficiaries.
6O02      The shelter component of the project will primarily serve the needs
of the population between the 10th and the 45th percentile of income.  The
economic benefits of the sites and services component are based on the im-
puted rental value of the serviced residential plots and the market value of
he i-ndustrial and commercial land provided.  The costs include all costs of
infrastructure, except the cost of schools and clinics (the benefits of which
are not reflected in inputed rental values), net of taxes. On this basis, the
economic rate of return for the housing component above is estimated at 12%
and for the combined housing and commercial/industrial development at 15%.
6.03      The slum improvement component represents a major shift in govern-
ment emphasis from its highly subsidized slum clearance/resettlement program
to environmental improvement in situ at a fraction of the cost. The project



- 31 -
would directly benefit about 23,000 families at a cost of about US$145 per
family as compared with US$1,100 per family required under the clearance/re-
settlement program. Security of tenure to be provided to the residents will
enable the Government to institute a monthly charge to recover the cost of
the project. Cost recovery will ensure that the program can be replicated.
The measurement of economic benefits of slum improvement is based on the
increase in rental value brought about by the provision of infrastructure
and other services; the economic rate of return is estimated at 18%.
6.04      The small-scale business component will create at least 4,000 jobs
at an investment of US$800 per job. In addition, about 5,000 jobs will be
created in cottage industries in the slum areas employing people to be trained
under the project. The average investment per job in cottage industry will
be about US$225. It is not possible to quantify the economic benefits of the
vocational training programs, but its effectiveness can be judged from the
fact that a 15% increase in income of the beneficiaries would yield a rate of
return of 12%. An increase in income of this magnitude is well within reason-
able expectations. There is an element of risk in the component in that it
would attempt to provide finance to very small-size businesses that are new
and inexperienced. Emphasis has been given to training and follow-up as a part
of this component, and it is believed that the risk involved is justified in
view of its potential benefits.
6.05      The maternal and child health component will provide basic health
and nutritional services to about 17,000 children and 7,000 nursing and ex-
pectant mothers in the sites and services and slum areas at an average annual
cost, including the cost of nutrition supplements, of less than US$8 per
capita. In addition, it will provide basic health education and functional
literacy training to about 20,000 women in the age of 15-44 years at a cost
of less than US$2.0 per capita. Under the project, these services will be
closely integrated with the physical improvement in the slums and the voca-
tional training and support services. The benefits of this component, although
not quantifiable, will be substantial in terms of reduced morbidity, possibly
reduced mortality, improved nutrition and increased productivity of working
mothers.
6.06      The water supply and sewerage component will prevent a further
deterioration in the already critical water supply situation in the metro-
politan area pending the development of long-term proposals. Since the
final selection of the works will be made after the studies now underway are
completed, it is not possible to estimate at this stage the full benefits
of the component. However, a preliminary assessment of the proposals indi-
cates a return of at least 10% on all proposed investments.
6.07      The roads and traffic improvement component is specifically designed
to benefit pedestrians, cyclists and bus riders who account for about 85% of
all trips in the metropolitan area. The benefits of the pedestrian facilities
are derived from a reduction in accidents and vehicle delays, giving the eco-
nomic rate of return for the pedestrian subways varying from 11% to 18%. The



- 32 -
benefits of the Inner Ring Road were considered to be savings in road transport
costs of all diverted traffic from their present routes along the radials.
The economic rate of return for this component is estimated to be 43%. The
Inner Ring Road would provide the additional benefits of developing the area
by linking together important new areas of employment opportunities to
present and future residential areas. The benefits of the road/rail grade
separations and bridge widening are derived from the savings in operating
costs and travel time of the road users (including commercial trucks, buses,
cars, motorcycles and cyclists) resulting from the elimination of waiting
time and improved speeds; the rate of return is estimated to be 12%. The rate
of return for the six bridges proposed for replacement varies from 15% to over
50% depending on the estimate of the remaining life of the bridges; it is 26%
assuming a median life of 3 years. It is not possible to compute the bene-
fits of the minor improvement works proposed for the roads along the various
orbital routes. These improvements will help development of the area away
from the present radial trends. The justification of the bicycle tracks is
based on the comparison with the alternative of widening the existing roads
which is considerably more expensive. The standards adopted for the bicycle
tracks conform to the minimum standards prescribed by the Indian Roads Congress.
The average economic rate of return for the roads and traffic improvement
component is estimated at about 28%.
6.08      The benefits of the bus component are derived from the savings in
bus operating costs resulting from the replacement of the older buses, and
from the reduction in congestion at the terminal facilities. The economic
rate of return for the component is estimated at: 46% for bus replacement,
24% for depots, and 15% for terminals. It is not possible to quantify the
benefits of providing passenger shelters which will improve the quality of
bus service and thus make it more attractive to passengers.
6.09      The estimated weighted average economic rate of return for those
components of the project for which benefits could be quantified, and which
account for 55% of the project cost, is estimated to be about 21%.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
main points:
(a)  with regard to the proposed water supply and sewerage
component, that (i) the final selection of works; (ii)
final engineering designs; and (iii) implementation
arrangements will be satisfactory to IDA (para 3.15);
(b)  that GTN will designate MMDA as the representative of
GTN for the purpose of coordinating and carrying out
the project in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 4.06);



- 33 -
(c) with regard to the sites and services component, that
(i) settler selection criteria and terms and conditions
of plot sales will be satisfactory to IDA (para 4.11);
and (ii) a revolving fund will be established by
April 1, 1978 and maintained separately for financing
sites and services schemes; (para 4.12);
(d) with regard to the slum improvement component, that
(i) freehold titles will be issued; (ii) monthly
hire-purchase payments averaging Rs 8 per plot and a
monthly service charge of Rs 2 per plot will be collected;
(iii) vacant land in prime locations will be sold at
market prices; and (iv) a revolving fund will be estab-
lished by April 1, 1978, and maintained separately
for financing slum improvement schemes (paras 4.13 -
4.15);
(e) with regard to slum clearance, that (i) the clearance pro-
gram would be limited primarily to committed schemes with
any additional schemes taken up only in accordance with
the slum improvement program, and (ii) expenditures on
clearance during the project period will not exceed
Rs 3.75 crores per year (para 4.16);
(f) that by December 31, 1977 an income survey will have
been undertaken to ascertain the level to which rents
in the resettlement flats could reasonably be raised
(para 4.16);
(g) that Madras Corporation, or any other agency assigned
the responsibility for water supply and sewerage ser-
vices in MMA as a result of the consultants' review,
will: (i) with effect from April 1, 1978, maintain
water supply and sewerage accounts and funds related
thereto separate from all other accounts and funds;
and (ii) with effect from April 1, 1979, impose spe-
cific water and sewerage charges and taxes to provide
sufficient cash flow to meet annual expenditures,
including debt service, and provide adequate working
capital for these services (para 4.19);
(h) that advisers and consultants' services will be obtained
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.21);
(i) with regard to accounts and audit, that (i) each executing
agency will maintain separate project accounts and MMDA
will compile overall project accounts, and (ii) annual
audits satisfactory to IDA will be made of the accounts
and financial statements of the executing agencies other
than GTN departments and the audited statements will be
forwarded to IDA within eight months after the close of



- 34 -
the fiscal year, with the audits of Madras Corporation
being brought up to date according to an agreed sched-
ule (para 4.23);
(j) that MMDA will prepare and submit to IDA quarterly
progress reports satisfactory to IDA (para 4.23);
(k) that Madras Corporation (i) by December 31, 1977, in
consultation with IDA, will review the organization
of its road maintenance activities; and (ii) by July 1,
1977 will establish a traffic engineering unit for
improvement and construction of footpaths and cycle
tracks (para 5.06);
(1) that Madras Corporation (i) by July 1, 1977 will establish
a Financial Management Department and appoint a Financial
Adviser; (ii) will revise its accounting system by
April 1, 1978; (iii) starting with 1978/79, will increase
its revenues by at least 8% annually and (iv) will not
exceed a debt-service ratio of 20% (para 5.10);
(m)  that the operating ratio of PTC will not exceed 99 for
1977/78, reducing progressively to 95 for 1980/81, and
that a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5
will be maintained from 1977/78 (para 5.13);
(n) that by July 1, 1977 a traffic engineering unit will
be established by the Department of Highways and Rural
Works and a traffic management unit will be established
by the Police (para 5.14);
(o)  that by June 30, 1978, MMDA in cooperation with TNHB
and TNSCB will prepare a program for improving all slums
in -MA (para 5.16); and
(p) that GTN will provide to the revolving fund for slum
improvement the additional funds required, over and
above cost recoveries from beneficiaries, to improve
by March 31, 1985 all slum areas in MMA (para 5.16).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was obtained on:
(a) MMDA's work program, organization and staffing
(para 5.02); and
(b) terms of reference for preparing a slum improve-
ment program (para 5.16).
7.03      With the assurances received, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$24 million to GOI.



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Profile of Madras Metropolitan Area
A. Historical Perspective
1.        The name of Madras is said to be derived from Madraspatnam, a
village that existed prior to the settlement of the British. The foundation
for the development of the present city was laid in 1639 when the site on
which Fort St. George now stands was acquired by the British East India Com-
pany. W4ithin a few years of the founding of the British settlement and con-
struction of the fort, the new town which had grown up around it came to be
known as Chennapatnam in honor of the father of the local chieftain. The
name was later applied to the whole city.
2.        The surroundings of this area covering nearly 67 square kilometers
and containing within it 16 hamlets were constituted in 1798 as the city of
Madras. The area of the city was subsequently enlarged from time to time.
Between its founding and the close of the 18th century, the city was the
scene of battles between the English, the French and Hyder Ali of Mysore.
Wqith British supremacy over the area firmly established by the latter part
of the 19th century, the development of the city progressed faster. To
facilitate trade, a harbor was built in 1896 to the east of George Town,
which had emerged as the main business center. The principal roads and rail
lines connected the harbor to the north, west and southern parts of the
presidency and they still constitute the main transportation framework for
the city. Physical growth of the city has occurred along these access cor-
ridors and today the city form approximates a semi-circle with extensions in
five different directions.
B. Demography
Structure
3.        The Madras Metropolitan Area extends over an area of about 1,166.8
square kilometers and is comprised of the city of Madras, four municipalities
(Alandur, Pallavaram, Tambaram and Tiruvottiyur), four townships (Kattivakkam,
Madhavaram, Ambattur and Avadi) and 20 panchayats (local authorities serving
predominantly rural areas). The city of Madras is the core of the metropolitan
area and is the center for all commercial and social activities as well as a
living area for over 75% of the total population.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Three distinct areas may be identified within the metropolitan
area. First, there is the city itself within the limits of Madras Corpora-
tion extending over 128.8 square kilometers. Next there are the urban centers
and extensions contiguous to the city area, which combined with the city cover
an area of 530.8 sq km and are referred to as the Madras Urban Agglomeration
(MUA). Finally, there is the rural area with a number of small settlements
which make up the remainder of the metropolitan area (see Map IBRD 12401).
The demographic characteristics differ according to the definition of the
area; those related to the Madras Urban Agglomeration and the city of Madras
represent the characteristics of the urban component of the metropolitan
area.
Population
5.        The population of the Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) was estimated
at 3.48 million according to the 1971 census, of which 2.47 million were
located in the city of Madras and 3.17 million in the MUA. The MUA is the
fourth most populous metropolitan urban agglomeration in the country after
Calcutta, Bombay and Delhi, but it recorded the highest growth rate in the
last decade (Table 1). The major increases in the population of the area
occurred in the thirty years between 1941 and 1971 (Table 2). The popula-
tion of Madras city first passed the one million mark around 1943 and then
doubled itself in a short span of twenty years. The rate of population growth
for the city between 1961 and 1971 was 3.7% per year, while the growth in the
MUA in this period averaged over 5% per year. This indicates an expansion of
the population outside the city boundaries in the outlying urban areas which
include the towns of Tiruvottiyur, Alandur and Pallavaram.
6.        The population growth experienced by the area was highest between
1941 and 1951 and between 1961 and 1971 when population growth averaged
over 5% per year. The growth between 1941 and 1951 may be attributed to
the cessation of the Second World War and the industrial growth after the
attainment of independence. The high growth in the 1960s may be attributed
to shift in emphasis in the national plans towards industry and consequently
the establishment of a number of industries within the suburban fringe of
the city.
Migration
7.        A substantial part of the growth in urban population in the metro-
politan areas has been due to in-migration. Reliable statistics are not
available on the quantum and characteristics of migration into the area, but
based on the estimates for the natural increases in population, migration
into the MUA between 1961 and 1971 has been about 520,000 of which 270,000
came into the city itself. These figures show that approximately 42% of the
total population increase in the past decade has been due to migration.
8.        Limited evidence is available on the sources of migration into the
metropolitan area. It appears that a large portion of the migrants (40-50%)
come to Madras from smaller cities in the state. A significant number



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of migrants (28%) come from the districts of Chingleput, North Arcot and
South Arcot adjoining the metropolitan area. Migrants from other states,
particularly the states adjoining Tamil Nadu, account for about 20% of the
total migrants.
Population Projections
9.        Assuming that the trends in population growth experienced in the
past decade have continued, the present population of the metropolitan area
would be about 4.4 million, of which about 4.0 million could be expected
within the urban agglomeration. With the same trends continuing in the next
ten years, the population of the metropolitan areas would reach nearly 7
million in 1985. On the other hand, if the natural growth in population
and the migration to the region can be reduced to 3.5% per year--which seems
unlikely at this time--the population of the metropolitan area in 1985 would
be over 6 million. Thus, even with smaller growth rates, at least i.5 mil-
lion people would be added to the metropolitan area over the next ten years.
C. Access to Basic Services
Water Supply and Sewerage
10.       Of all the major Indian cities, Madras has the poorest availability
of water. Per capita water supply at source is currently less than 70 liters
per day (lcd) for combined domestic and industrial purposes, compared with 138
lcd in Calcutta and 145 lcd in Bombay. The distribution facilities are inade-
quate and as a result many domestic consumers, particularly the poorest, who
have to rely on standpipes, receive less than 40 lcd. There are about 92,000
house connections, which would account for less than 20% of households in the
city. It is estimated that private wells provide additional 35 million liters
per day (mld) of water for domestic and industrial uses. The existing sources
of water supply are limited and even with the major investments in the sector
now underway, no relief can be expected before 1979-80.
11.       Currently about 75% of Madras city is sewered, but the remainder
of MMA outside the city boundary has no sewerage system. The capacity of
the system is inadequate to handle the present levels of sewage flow. Con-
sequently, some sewage gets diverted into water courses. The absence of
an adequate system of storm water drainage contributes to the overloading
of the sewer system, particularly during the monsoon period.
Housing
12.       The housing situation in Madras, as in other major cities in the
world, is far from satisfactory. Nearly one-third of the population of the
city lives in slums under poor environmental conditions. According to the



ANNEX I
Page 4
1971 census, there were 446,610 occupied residential houses as against 586,289
households in the metropolitan area, indicating a deficit of about 140,000
houses. In addition, about 21% of the houses were classified as of "kutcha"
(temporary) construction, which would require upgrading or replacement. With
the expected population increases, an additional 30,000-35,000 houses would be
required annually. Unless a major initiative is taken for increasing the
housing stock which can be afforded by the majority of the population, slum
settlements in Madras are likely to continue increasing.
Education
13.       Primary education is the responsibility of the local bodies and
secondary education is supported by the State Government. However, because
of a lack of facilites, private schools are used by a large segment of the
population. There were 589 primary and middle schools in the city in 1971,
of which 234 were private. In addition, there are an estimated 500 "unrecog-
nized" schools which have mushroomed all over the city, with a total enroll-
ment of 50,000 to 75,000. There are 167 high schools in the city, the major-
ity of which are private.
14.       School enrollment levels in the metropolitan area are fairly satis-
factory. It is estimated that 82% of the children in the age group 6-10,
50.7% in the age group 10-14 and 34% in the age group 15-17 are enrolled
in schools. However, the main problem is with a lack of adequate facili-
ties, for the lower income families.
D. Economic Base
Income
15.       Per capita annual income in Madras city in 1970-71 is estimated at
Rs 906 ($101) at current prices, and for the urban area as a whole it is
estimated at Rs 855 ($95). This compares with the per capita income for
Tamil Nadu State for 1970-71 at Rs 624 ($69) but is considerably lower
than the income in Bombay at Rs 1,180 ($131) and even below the average for
the predominantly agricultural state of Punjab at Rs 945 ($105). More recent
data on income is not available, but if the metropolitan area incomes are
assumed to follow the trend for the State as a whole, per capita income in
1974 for the area is estimated at Rs 1,300 ($144) in current prices, which
represents a decline of 9.3% in constant prices over 1970.
16.       Sectorwise breakdown of income estimates for Madras city and the
metropolitan area are given in Table 3. It is noteworthy that the tertiary
sector contributes 56.2% of the total income for the metropolitan area and
63.2% of the total income for the city, and the primary sector accounts for
5.2% of the income in the metropolitan area and 1.3% in the city.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Work Force
17.       According to the 1971 census the Madras Urban Agglomeration had a
working force of 897,517 persons of which 818,965 were males. Distribution
of the workers in the three principal sectors was as follows:
Total Workers    Percentage
Primary                 35,950             4.0
Secondary              266,011            29.6
Tertiary               595,556            66.4
897,517          100.00
18.       The participation rate in the MUA was 28.4% compared to 36.8% for
Greater Bombay and 32.5% for Calcutta Urban Agglomeration. On the basis of
the participation rates in 1971, the present work force in the MUA is esti-
mated at about 1,136,000. It is difficult to estimate the level of under-
employment. On the basis of the statistics kept on the current register of
employment, it is estimated that up to 15% of the work force may be termed
unemployed or underemployed.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Population and Growth Rate in Metropolitan
Urban Agglomerations
Population               Annual
in                Growth Rate
Ranking            City               millions              Percentage
(1971)    1941-51    1951-61       1961-71
1.   Calcutta                           7.04        2.5          2.2         1.8
2.   Greater Bombay                     5.97         5.8         3.4         3.7
3.   Delhi                              3.64          -           -          4.4
4.   Madras                             3.17         5.2         2.3         5.0
5.   Hyderabad                          1.80          -           -          3.5
6.   Ahemdabad                          1.74          -           -          3.8
7.   Bangalore                          1.65          -           -          3.7
8.   Kanpur                             1.28          -           -          2.8
9.   Poona                              1.14          -           -          3.8
Source:   Compiled from Census of India Reports.
June 22, 1976.



INDIA
MADRAS URBAL DEVELOPMIEVNT PROJECT
Growth of Population in India, Tamil Nadu, Madras Urban Agglomeration
and Madras City - 19 11-1 971 .
Popula ti on
Year           (millions)                      Relative Share (%)                        Annu.al Crowth (%)
Ta,mil                Tamil Nadu        MIJA          MC                 during decade
India   Nad.i   MUTJA  Mc         India      Tamnil Nadu   Tamil Nadu   Tamil. Nadu    MUA         MC
1911      252    20.9  o.60  o.56           8.3          2.9           2.7              -          -         -
1921      231    21.6  Q.63  0.58           8.6          2.9           2.7             0.4        0.4       0.4
1931      279    23.5  0.77  0.71           8.4          3.3            3.0            0.8        2.1       2.1
19)41     31?    26.3  0.93  0.86           8.2          3-5           3.3             1.7        1.9       1.9
1951      361    30.1  1.54  1.42           8.3          5.1            4.7            1.4        5.2       5.2
1961      439    33.7  1.94  1.73           7.7          5.8           5.1             1.7        2.4       2.0
1971      548    41.2  3.17  2.47           7.5          7.7           6.0             2.0        5.0       3.7
MIA - Madras Urban kgglomeration
MC  - Madras City
Source:  Compiled from Census of India Publications.
June 22, 1976.



MADRAS URBAN~ DEVELORENT PROJECT
Sectorwise income for Madras city and Madras _rban Area a_  Current Prices 1970-?1
(Rs in millions)
Madras City        Madras Urban Area    Madras Metropolitan Area
Sector           Income               Income        ,       Income
(O )            (2)        (3)       (4)         (5)       (6)              (7)
Primary             27.6     1.27       64.5        2.33      156.2            5.22
Secondary         773.4    35.58    1,082.0        39.05    1,152.6           38.51
Tertiary        1,372.9    63.15    1,624.4        58.62   1i,684.4           56.27
All Sectors    2,173.9   100.00    2,770.9       100.00    2,993.2          100.00
Mid-year Popu-
lation (in
millions)           2.4                 3.1                     3.5
Per Cauita
in-ome (Rs)      906                  894                    855
Source:  Directorate of Statistics, Tamil Nadu.
June 22, 1976.



ANNEX 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sites and Services
1.        This annex is organized as follows:
Section                                                     Paras
A.   Design Population                                            2 -  4
B.   Site Selection                                               5 - 10
C.   Site Layout and Land Use                                    11 - 13
D.   Plot Size and Plot Development                              14 - 21
E.   Core Housing Details                                        22 - 25
F.   On-Site Infrastructure                                      26 - 32
G.   Off-Site Infrastructure                                     33 - 34
H.   Community Facilities                                        35 - 36
I.   Cost Estimates and Land Pricing                             37 - 38
J.   Financial Analysis                                          39 - 40
K.   Tamil Nadu Housing Board                                    41 - 43
L.   Economic Evaluation                                         44 - 46



ANNEX 2
Page 1
A. Design Population
2.        In India, households are normally broken down into the following
income groups:
Rs/month
-    Economically Weak Section (EWS)                      0 -   350
-    Low-Income Group (LIG)                             350 -   600
-    Middle-Income Group (MIG)                          600 - 1,500
-    High-Income Group (HIG)                          1,500 +
In Madras, the EWS represents about 60% of the population and to
establish appropriate project design standards, it is necessary to further
subdivide these classifications. The following sub-categories have been
selected:
Household                 Income
Category                 (Rs/month)            Percentile
EWS - S /a                 up to 150                    9
EWS - A                  150 -   200              9 - 19
EWS - B                  200 -   300             19 - 45
EWS - C                  300 -   350             45-57
LIG - D                  350 -   450             57 - 71
LIG - E                  450 -   600             71 - 82
MIG - F                  600 - 1,000             82 - 94
/a   Most households below the 10th percentile live in slums on the fringe
of the city. Their incomes are generally too low for sites and
services with core housing, and open plot development in and near
existing slums is more appropriate (see Annex 3).
3.        The sites and services component aims to reach about the tenth per-
centile, i.e. those households earning Rs 150 per month, and in order to do
this and provide individual services to each lot it has been necessary to
provide small plots (down to 40 sq m) and differentially load some of the
servicing costs on to industrial, commercial and middle-income lots. Two



ANNEX 2
Page 2
thirds of all households accommodated by the sites ancd services component
will belong to the income group below the 45th percentile. The balance will
belong to higher income groups. This will provide variety, promote social
interaction and the opportunity of differential pricing. Government housing
projects in the past have not reached families earning less than Rs 300 per
month (except for a few subsidized schemes).
4.        It is anticipated that many of the EWS beneficiaries of the sites
and services component will be drawn from the slums, where they presently
have to live for a lack of any affordable alternatives. A brief analysis
of the characteristics of these households is given in Annex 3, para 3.
B. Site Selection
5.        The three sites selected (Arumbakkam, Villivakkam and Kodungaiyur)
were chosen from among ten alternative sites on the periphery of the city in
areas where slums have recently developed and where new industries and middle-
income housing schemes have been located. The Inner Ring Road (see Annex 7)
will tie two of the sites together and increase their accessibility to other
economically active areas.
6.        The criteria for site selection included:
(a) location in a 'pressure' area, i.e. an area where the
demand from the design group is already identifiable;
(b) location close to employment opportunities;
(c) good transport linkages with the city center;
(d) location near high-income residential areas; and
(e) availability of trunk infrastructure.
7.        The Arumbakkam site is located in the western part of the city 9 km
from the city center and approximately 600 m from Poonamallee High Road.
Water supply is available from the Madras Corporation mains and sewage will
be collected at the western end of the site and pumped to the Kayembedu Sewage
Farm approximately 1,500 m to the west. Electricity is available for domestic
and light industrial use. The proposed Inner Ring Road will abut the site at
its south west corner.
8.        The Villivakkam site forms part of a former irrigation tank.  It is
located just beyond the city limits and lies at a distance of 11 km from the
center of the city. The site abuts the industrial areas of Paoh, TVS and
ICF, and there is a total industrial employment of 25,000 within 3 km. In



ANNEX 2
Page 3
addition, the area abuts the Madras - Tiruvallor Road which leads to yet
another industrial area, Ambattur, located 3 km to the west. The proposed
Inner Ring Road will intersect the Madras-Tiruvallor Road along the western
boundary of the site, further reinforcing the industrial and commercial poten-
tial of Villivakkam. Water supply will be obtained from four wells to be
sunk on the site from where it will be pumped to a 0.9 million liter service
reservoir. Sewage will be pumped and treated in stabilization ponds to be
located next to the site. Approximately 1,000 lineal meters of open drainage
culverts to the Otteri 'Nullah' (an open storm drain) will be required.
9.        The Kodungaiyur site is located outside the city's northwestern
boundary, approximately 10 km from the city center and not far from the
Calcutta Trunk Road. In order to improve the accessibility of the site,
approximately 1,200 lineal meters of access road will be required of which
approximately 500 lineal meters would run north-south to connect the site
with Vyasarpadi (the North Madras Neighborhood Scheme of Tamil Nadu Housing
Board) and 700 lineal meters would be required to connect the site with
developed areas to the west. Water supply will be obtained from ten wells
to be sunk on the site where it will be pumped to two 0.9 million liter
service reservoirs. Sewage will be pumped to Kodungaiyur Sewage Farm,
which is close to the proposed site.
10.       Including access road right-of-way, the three sites cover an area
of about 175 ha and would have a population of approximately 74,000:
Area (ha)           Design Population
Arumbakkam                 34.2                   13,700
Villivakkam                53.1                   21,900
Kodungaiyur                87.3                   38,400
Total                 174.6                    74,000
The overall gross density is approximately 423 persons per ha.
C. Site Layout and Land Use
11.       The layouts for the three sites have been designed to make full
use of their commercial and industrial employment potential. The amount
of land allocated to industrial and commercial use has been determined by
the opportunities offered by each individual site and therefore varies
from one site to another.
12.       The internal network of streets and pedestrian circulation has
been connected to the network of adjacent residential settlements and
transportation routes. Pedestrian corridors of high retail potential have



ANNEX 2
Page 4
been defined linking the sites with existing or proposed focal points,
i.e., railway station, bus stops, major transport arteries, employment
areas, etc. The residential areas have been distributed on the site in
a way to give a higher vehicular accessibility to the larger plots which
will bear a greater part of the total infrastructure cost. Land will be
differentially priced according to its accessibility.
13.       Land use distribution for each site is shown in Table 1 and
summarized below for all three sites:
Aria           Percent of
(m  )           Total
A.  M4arketable land (to which costs are
allocated):
1.   Residential                            828,993           47.5
2.   Pre-schools and primary schools         43,547            2.5
3.   High schools                            38,803            2.2
4.   Police stations, post offices and
health and community centers            13,677            0.8
5.   Central commercial areas                76,700            4.4
6.   Local commercial areas                  18,666            1.1
7.   Small industry                         113,642            6.5
8.   Kalyanamandapam (social center)          3,944            0.2
Sub-total                            1,137,972           65.2
B.   Non-marketable land (to which
no costs are allocated):
9.   Parks, play fields and open
space                                138,164            7.9
10.   Cattle yards                             8,696            0.5
11.   Street circulation and footpaths       382,753           21.9
12.   Access roads                            18,700            1.1
13.   Stabilization pond                      60,000            3.4
Sub-total                              608,313           34.8
Total                                1,746,285          100.0
D. Plot Size and Plot Development
14.       There are five plot sizes which with varying degrees of on-plot
development will provide a total of six options, i.e. one for each design
income group:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Plot
Option/            si e         Number        % of           On-plot
Target Group         (m )        of plots       total         development
EWS - A              40.0         6,228         46.2         Sanitary core only
EWS - B              46.5         2,742         20.4         Sanitary core plus
two side walls
EWS - C              46.5           792          5.9         Sanitary core plus
two rooms
LIG - D              74.3         2,077         15.4         None
LIG - E             139.4         1,207          9.0         None
MIG - F             223.0           421          3.1         None
Total                       13,467        100.0
The plot distribution for each site is shown in Table 2.
15.       For EWS households, two plot sizes and three different types of
cores have been designed in order to accommodate the relatively wide range
of incomes in this category. The options and their possible development are
illustrated in Sketches 1-3. The designs of the plots are dictated by the
ability to pay of the target population. It is assumed that payments of
10-20% of monthly income would be affordable by the lower to low-middle
income groups.
16.       Type EWS-A is a plot of 40 sq m (13' x 33') with a precast concrete
sanitary core placed at the rear of the plot. Each core contains a water closet
and a shower. Cores are grouped by units of four. It is envisa~ed that the
purchaser will first set up a thatch and adobe hut of about 20 m on the plot.
Later, with the help of building materials provided under the project, this
hut can be improved gradually and eventually become a house entirely built in
durable materials. The monthly payment required for the plot and the super-
structure is Rs 20 per month, which would be expected to attract households
with incomes of Rs 150 - Rs 200 per month.
17.       Type EWS-B is a plot of 46.5 m  (10' x 50').  The superstructure
includes a sanitary core (shower and w.c.), two 22 cm thick brick walls along
the boundary line of 2the plot and a thatch roof between the two walls. The
covered area is 21 m . The first steps to improve the house will be to build
front and back walls and possibly to build a permanent roof. A shop facing
the street can be added in front of the house. Several further development
options are available, including horizontal and vertical extensions. The



ANNEX 2
Page 6
monthly payment required for the plot and the superstructure is Rs 30 per
month, which would be expected to attract households with incomes of Rs 200 -
300 per month.
18.       Type EWS-C consists of a plot of 46.) m  with a sanitary core and
a superstructure including two rooms of 10.5 m  each.  Plots are arranged
in cluster form (see Sketch 1 and 3). The walls will be 22 cm thick con-
structed of bricks laid in cement mortar. The roof will be in precast con-
crete and the floor will consist of rammed earth with a cow dung finish.
A shop or workshop can be added in front of the plot, and the walls and
foundation have been designed to withstand a second floor. The monthly
payment required is Rs 66 per month which could be afforded by a household
with an income of Rs 300-350 per month.
19.       Type LIG-D consists of a plot of 74.3 mi  with electricity, water
and sewerage connections, but without built-up sanitary cores.   The monthly
payment required for the plot is Rs 40. It is expected that the repayment
of loans, including land and house construction, will amount to Rs 70 per
month which could be afforded by a household with an income of Rs 350-450 per
month.
20.       Type LIG-E consists of a plot of 139.4 mi  with electricity, water
and sewerage connections, but without sanitary cores. The monthly payment
required for the plot is Rs 70. Repayment of total loan including house con-
struction will amount to approximately Rs 100 per month which could be afforded
by a household with income of Rs 450-600 per month.
21.       Type MIG-F consists of a plot of 223.0 m  with electricity, water
and sewerage connections, but without sanitary core. The monthly payment re-
quired for the plot is Rs 128. Repayment of total loan including house
construction will amount to approximately Rs 170 per month which could be
afforded by a household with an income of Rs 600 - 1,000 per month.
E. Core Housing Details
Type EWS-A
22.       Sanitary core consisting of w.c. and shower built at rear of lot:



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Quantity   Unit   Rate (Rs)  Cost (Rs)
Foundation                          1.14        m3       140         160
Concrete beam                       0.16        i3       140          23
22 cm base brick work               0.22        m3       140          31
22 cm wall brick work                1.70       m3       140         238
Doors and door furniture             2          No.       85         170
Plumbing                             item                            350
Plot surface water drainage          item                            100
Sub-total                                                     1,072
Design and supervision 12-1/2%                                       134
Sub-total                                                     1,206
Water connection                                                     100
Total                                                         1,306
Type EWS-B
23.       Sanitary core, two side walls and thatch roof:
Quantity   Unit   Rate (Rs)  Cost (Rs)
Foundation                           1.15       m3       140         161
Concrete beam                       0.33        m3       140          46
22 cm base brick work               0.67        m3       140          94
22 cm wall brick work               3.86        m3       140         540
Door and door furniture              1          No.       85          85
Roof (thatch on bamboo piles)    26             m2        20         520
Plumbing                             item                            350
Plot surface water drainage          item                            100
Sub-total                                                     1,896
Design and supervision 12-1/2%                                       237
Sub-total                                                     2,133
Water connection                                                     100
Total                                                         2,233



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Type EWS-C
24.       Sanitary core and shell for two rooms:
Quantity   Unit   Rate (Rs)  Cost (Rs)
Sanitary core                         1        No.      1,072       1,072
Boundary walls and foundation        item        2                  3,095
Roof                                 21        m           51       1,077
Sub-total                                                     5,244
Design and supervision 12-1/2%                                        656
Sub-total                                                     5,900
Water connection                                                      100
Total                                                          6,000
Self-Help Construction
25.       A large amount of self-help construction is expected to take place
on plots of Type EWS-A and B. On Plot A, a temporary shelter will first be
erected by the allottee himself at a maximum cost of Rs 800 (depending on
the amount of salvaged material brought with the allottee). This temporary
shelter will be built in thatch and mud and will be similar to the ones
found in slums in surrounding areas. This construction is entirely self-
help. At a later stage, the allottee would build brick walls and a roof,
either made of asbestos cement sheets, tiles or light prefabricated concrete
elements. This construction is likely to be executed through assisted self-
help, i.e. a professional mason may be responsible for the overall design
and construction and be assisted by members of the household working as
laborers. Plots of Type EWS-B can be inhabited immediately with an initial
investment of approximately Rs 50. The different stages of construction are
described in Sketch 2. Building materials and prefabricated elements will be
available on each site through a cooperative store operated by TNHB. The
building loans themselves will be given in the form of building materials.
F. On-Site Infrastructure
26.       The adopted design criteria have been accepted by the Tamil Nadu
Water Supply and Drainage Board and Madras Corporation. They are:



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Water Supply
27.       Per capita demand                    135 lcd
Small industry demand               100,000 liters/ha/day
Peak-flow factor                    2.5
Residential pressure                8 m
Overhead tank capacity              One third of average daily
flow with low water level
set at 12 m above ground
level
Average family size                 5.5
All materials will conform to the appropriate Indian Standard Specifications
(ISS). Individual lot connections will be available.
28.       The total demand for water supply at Arumbakkam, which will rely on
the municipal water supply, is estimated at about 1.5 mld. The present avail-
able municipal water supplies of 200 mld are already inadequate to meet the
total needs of MMA (see Annex 6). However, the water requirements of the
sites and services project are less than 1% of the available supplies and will
be met in the short-term by a reallocation of water from some of the relatively
better-off areas. In the long-term, additional water to be made available as
a part of the project, and anticipated future GTN investments in the sector,
will help improve the situation.
Sewerage
29.       The sewers will be des-igned for a minimum velocity of 0.6 m per
second. Each lot will be provided with a sewer connection.
Drainage
30.       Stoneware or concrete pipes are to be used with partial or complete
concrete surround when the depth to invert exceeds 2.5 m. Manholes will be
provided at intervals not exceeding 45 m.
Roads
31.       Bus and main routes will have 7-meter carriageways consisting of 1"
thick bitumen macadam surfacing laid on two layers of broken stone with a
completed thickness of 4" and 2-3/4", with 6" of gravel as base. Minor roads
5 m wide and less will not have a bituminous macadam surface. Footpaths
will consist of rolled gravel. Earth drains will be provided on either side
of the carriageways.
Street Lighting and Electrity
32.       Street lights will be provided at 30 meter centers along with name
boards, street trees and dust bins. Electricity connections to individual
houses will be available from the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board grid network.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
G. Off-Site Infrastructure
33.       The details of the off-site infrastructure for the three sites
are as follows (excluding design and supervision charges and contingencies):
Arumbakkam                                     ---- (Rs Lakhs)----
(a) Access Road
Land acquisition (0.72 ha)                0.45
Formation and drainage                    1.84           2.29
(b) Sewerage
1,500 linear meters of 300 mm dia
rising main                               3.00
Pumping station 6 meters
to invert                                 7.20          10.20
(c) Water Supply
1,000 linear meters of 250 mm
dia main                                 2.75
Sump, overhead tank, pumps
and standby diesel engine                7.50           10.25
Sub-total, Arumbakkam                             22.74
Villivakkam
(a) Sewerage
Pumping station & rising main            9.30
Stabilization pond                       7.10           16.40
(b) Water Supply
4 wells with pumps, standby
diesel engines, rising mains,
overhead tank (0.912 million
liters storage)                        10.05            10.05
(c) Drainage
Surface-water drainage 1,000
linear meters of open culvert
to Otteri Nullah                       3.00              3.00
Sub-total, Villivakkam                                 29.45



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Kodungaiyur
(a) Access Road
Land acquisition (1.15 ha)             0.50
Formation and drainage                 1.86             2.36
(b) Sewerage
Pumping station                       13.67
Rising main                            4.85            18.52
(c) Water Supply
10 wells with pumps,
standby diesel engines,
rising mains, 2 overhead
tanks with 0.912 million liters
storage each)                        23.20            23.20
Sub-total, Kodungaiyur                                44.08
Total                                                 96.27
34.       The cost of access roads and off-site drainage (Rs 7.65 lakhs)
would be charged to site development and recovered through land sales. The
cost of off-site water supply and sewerage (Rs 88.62 lakhs) would not be
charged to site development but recovered through user charges and taxes.
H. Community Facilities
35.       The following design standards have been adopted:
(a)  Schools
One primary school of 300 pupils for a population of 3,000
One secondary (high) school of 300 pupils for a population of 10,000
(b) Clinics and Comniunity Halls
One unit of each type to be provided for a population of 15,000



ANNEX 2
Page 12
36.       The facilities will be provided, maintained and staffed by public
and private voluntary agencies as follows:
Arumbakkaru        Villivakkam        Kodungaiyur
Public    Private  Public   Private  Public    Private
Primary schools        2         2         2        4        2           6
High schools           1                   1                 1           1
Clinics                1                   1                 1           1
Community halls        1                   1                 1           1
Only the publicly provided facilities are included in the project.
T.  Cost Estimates and Land Pricing
37.       The total cost of the component is Rs 9.3 crores (including physi-
cal and price contingencies), as detailed in Table 3.  Unit cost indicators
on an area, per capita, and per plot basis are given in Table 4. All costs
for land acquisition, earthworks, on-site infrastructure, access roads and
drainage would be charged to site development, as indicated in Table 3, yield-
ing total chargeable costs and average development cost of land as follows
(including physical contingencies):
Total                             Average
Chargeable         Marketable       develop-
cost               laVd          ment cost
(Rs lakhs)            (m )           (Rs/m )
Arumbakkam            66.03               232,521          28.4
Villivakkam          118.04               330,256          35.7
Kodungaiyur          177.71               575,195          30.9
Total           361.78            1,137,972           31.8
38.       Since the cost differences between the sites are caused by physical
on-site conditions and not by different locational advantages, the average cost
will be applied to all sites. The actual sale price will, however, vary with
the type of plot and its location within each site. Part of the surplus rea-
lized particularly f om sale of prime commercial and industrial land, selling
at about Rs 90 per m , will be util zed to reduce the price of EWS plots to
an average of only about Rs I per m . Average sale prices by type of plot and
land use and total sale values are indicated in Table 5. An overall surplus
would be realized which would be used to cover defaults, and the remainder put
back in the revolving fund.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
J. Financial Analysis
39.       The cost of each type of residential plot with on-plot development,
and the income groups reached, would be as follows:
Plot                        Cost (Rs)                 Monthly         Income Group
Type           Plot    Core    Material    Total    Payment             Reached
(Rs)          (Rs/month)
EWS - A          40   1,435       500        1,975       20          150 -   200
EWS - B          47   2,455       500        3,002       30          200 -   300
EWS - C          47   6,600        -         6,647       66          300 -   350
LIG - D       3,690      -         -         3,690       40          350 -   450
LIG - E       6,435      -         -         6,435       70          450 -   600
MIG - F      10,845      -         -        10,845      128          600 - 1,000
The terms are 10% down and the balance at 12% annual interest rate over 20
years (EWS), 15 years (LIG) and 12 years (MIG). 2The commercial land will be
sold at the market price of Rs 45 to Rs 85 per m depending on the location.
The industrial land will be sold by SIDCO (Annex 4).
40.       All revenues will go into a revolving fund to be used for future
sites and services schemes. Table 6 gives the cash flow estimate for the
fund.
K. Tamil Nadu Housing Board
41.       The sites and services component would be implemented by TNHB.  The
TNHB was established as a statutory body in April 1961 to undertake housing
programs in the entire state. The Board is comprised of 10 members nominated
by GTN, a majority of whom are officials from the various government depart-
ments. TNHB has its headquarters in Madras and maintains a number of
regional units all over the State. It has a large compliment of well quali-
fied engineers and support staff for administration and accounting. The tech-
nical wing is headed by a Chief Engineer, who has three Executive Engineers
under him each in charge of one of three circles. In addition, there are
separate wings under the Chief Engineer for design, planning, and architecture,
and a special cell which handles all HUDCO financial schemes (see Chart 7).
42.       Since its inception, TNHB has completed over 25,000 housing units
under the various schemes and in addition has developed over 50,000 housing
sites. More than half of the activities of the Board have been concentrated
in Madras and its surroundings. Table 7 indicates the progress of the various
TNHB schemes up to the end of 1975. A large portion of the houses constructed
by the Board up to now has been directed at the upper-income and middle-income
families, which constitute less than 25% of all families in Madras. However,



ANNEX 2
Page 14
in the last two or three years, TNHB has started to devote a greater part of
its activities to the needs of the EWS. Even so, it is believed that its
lowest cost schemes (e.g. the EWS Scheme and the Special Low Cost Housing
Schemes) are beyond the reach of over 50% of the city's population.
43.       The various schemes of TNHB are financed by loans from Govern-
ment and public sector agencies, such as HUDCO, Life Insurance Corporation,
and to a limited extent from banks and public borrowings. The terms and con-
ditions of the loans vary for the different schemes and for the different
sources. A statement showing capital expenditures and sources of funds for
the last 8 years is given in Table 8. Each individual housing scheme is ex-
pected to be financially viable; the sale price must cover all development and
supervision costs and finance charges. Sale of the completed units is on the
same terms and conditions as obtained by TNHB and a service charge is added
for administrative costs. The collection record has been outstanding with
very few defaults.
L. Economic Evaluation
44.       The sites and services component is expected to have substantial
influence on GTN's approach to urban shelter and infrastructure for lower-
income groups. It would demonstrate the feasibility of undertaking self-help
housing which can be afforded by the low-income population. The project would
shift the attention oL the authorities responsible for housing fromu thleir pre-
sent emphasis on middle-income and upper-income housing towards the needs of
this population group. The creation of the revolving fund would ensure that
the approach of sites and services would be adopted over the longer-term.
45.       The measurement of the economic benefits is based upon the estimate
of imputed rental value for the dwellings to be constructed. A comparison
with rental values elsewhere in the metropolitan area with similar service
conditions as in the three sites included in the project indicates monthly
rents of Rs 90 for the 40-50 m2 plot with two rooms constructed by self-help;
Rs 120 for the 75 m2 plots with two roomsi/. For the larger plots, the actual
payments made by the purchasers of the plots are assumed to represent the
benefits derived as these payments would indicate the willingness to pay.
For lots designated for commercial and industrial uses, benefits have been
computed at the market value of Rs 90 per m2.
46.       Costs considered in the economic analysis include site preparation,
core construction, on-site infrastructure, an allocated share of off-site
infrastructure, materials for self-help house construction, imputed value of
self-help labor (assumed at 50% of market wages), project administration and
1/   See "Space and Shelter for Urban Population:  A Report on Madras City",
prepared by the School of Architecture and Planning, Madras (undated).



ANNEX 2
Page 15
physical contingencies. Land was priced at the market value prior to develop-
ment, which was considered to reflect opportunity cost. On this basis, the
internal economic rate of return of the sites and services component as a
whole is estimated at 15%. The rate of return for the housing component alone
(excluding all other marketable land and the associated development costs) is
estimated at 12%. A reduction in the rental value of the houses by 20% or
an increase in project cost by 20% would still give an acceptable rate of
return of 10% for the total project and 8% for the housing component alone.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ILD T
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJEiCT
Land Use Distribution by Site
Arumbakkam          Villivakkam         Kodungaiyur           Total
Area       %       Area        %        Area         %      Area
(m2)               (m2)                 (m2)        _       (m2)
A. Marketable Land
(to which Costs
are allocated)
I. Residential                      154,621   45.2      244,670    46.1    429,702      49.2      828,993   47.5
2.  Pre-schools & Primary
schools                         10,600    3.1      13,400      2.      19,547       2.2      43,547    2.5
3. Hign schools                       7,200    2.1       13,300     2.5      18,303      2.1       38,803    2.2
4. Police stations, post
offices, health and
community centers                 3,200    0.9        1,886     0.4       8,591      1.0       13,677    0.8
5. Central commercial areas          30,700    9.0        8,000     1.5      38,000      4.4       76,700    4.4
6.  Local commercial areas            3,200    0.9        2,900     0.5      12,566      1.4       18,666    1.1
7.  Small industry                   22,000    6.4       45,100     8.5      46,542      5.3      113,642    6.5
8.  Kalyanamandapam                   1,000    0.3        1 ,000    0.2       1 ,9144    0.2        3,944    0.2
.Sub-total, A                   232,521   68.o      330,256    62.2    575,195      65.9   1,137,972   65.2
B. hon-Marketable Land
(to which costs are
not allocated)
9.  'irks, play fields and
onen SDaCe                 25,879    7.6       34,394     6.5      77,891      8.9     138,164    7.9
O.  Cattle yards                      2,400    0.7        2,700     0.5       3,596      O.14       8,696    0.5
1 '. Street circulation and
footpaths                       74,000   21.6      103,735    19.5    205,018      23.5     382,753   21.9
12. Access roads                       7,200    2.1          -        -       11,500      1.3       18,700    1.1
i3.  Stabilization pond                 -         -       60,0oo    11.3        -          -        60,000    3.4
Sub-total, B                    109,479   32.0      200,829    37.8    298,005      34.1      608,313   34.8
Total                           342,000  100.0      531,085   100.0    873,200    100.0   1,746,285  100.0



ANNEX 2
Table 2
NDLIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELo0B4T PROJECT
Residential Plot Distribution by Site
Plot                      Number of Plots
Plot Type       Area       Arumbakkam    Villivakkam       Kodungaiyur       Total
(m2)      No.   %        No.     %        No.     %       No.     %
EWS-A            40.0     1,145  46      1,933   48       3,150   45      6,228    46
EWS-B            46.5       506  20        820   20       1,416   20      2,7)42    20
EWS-C            46.5       198   8        198    5         396    6        792     6
LIG-D           74.3        344  14        603   15       1,130   16      2,077    15
LIG-E          139.4        210   8        350    9         6)47    9     1,207     9
MIG-F           223.0        96   4-       120    3         205    3        421     3
Total                     2,499 100      4,024  100       6,944  100    13[,467   100



INDIA
ANNEX 2
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                             Table 3
Detailed Cost Estimates - Sites and Services Component
(Rs Lakhs)
Arumbakkam         Villivakkam         Kodungaiyur             Total
A.  Land kcquisition*                                 21.38                6.33                38.24               65.95
B.  Earthworks*                                        1.00               35.00                13.00               49.00
C. On-Site Infrastructure *
1.  Roads                                      4.63                6.70                14.05                25.38
2.  Drainage                                   2.73                4.32                 9.48               16.53
3.  Street lighting and electricity            6.45               10.75                20.85               38.05
4.  Water supply                               8.50               13.20                21.00               42.70
5.  Sewerage                                   9.70               16.25                29.62               55.57
6.  Landscaping, trees                         0.78                1.05                 2.34                4.17
Sub-Total, C                             32.79                52.27                97.34              182.40
D. On-Plot Development *
1.  Type A cores (@ Rs 1,172)                 13.42               22.65                36.92               72.99
2.  Type B cores (@ Rs 1,996)                 10.10               16.37                28.26               54.73
3.  Type C cores (@ Rs 5,344)                 10.58               10.58                21.16               42.32
4.  Self-help building materials               8.26               13.76                22.83               44.85
Sub-Total, D                             42.36                63.36               109.17              214.89
E. Off-Site Infrastructure
1.  Access roads*                              2.29                -                    2.36                4.65
2. Drainage*                                   -                   3.00                 _                   3.00
3.  Water supply**                            10.25               10.05                23.20               43.50
4.  Sewerage;* *                              10.20               16.40                18.52               45,12
Sub-Total, E                              22.74               29.45                44.08               96,2
F. Community Facilities
1.  Primary schools (2 per site)               2.67                2.67                 2.67                8,01
2.  High schools (1 per site)                  3.11                3.11                 3.11                9.33
3.  Clinic and community hall (1 per site)  1.09                   1.09                 1.09                3.27
Sub-Total, F                               6.87                6.87                 6.87               20.61
Sub-Total, A-F                          127.14               193.28              308.70               629.12
G.  Design and Supervision                            13.22               23.37               33.81                70.40
(12.5% on all items except A)
Sub-Total, A-G                          140.36               216.65              342.51               699.52
H.  Physical Contingencies (10% on all                11.07               19.66               28.14                58.87
items except A and D-4)                                                                                        _
Sub-Total, A-H                          151.43               236.31              370.65               758.39
I.  Price Contingencies (see para. 4.03)             32.77                57.95               83.77               174.49
TOTAL                                   184.20               294.26              454.42               932.88
To be recovered through plot and land sales.
To be recovered through specific user charges and taxes.



INDIA
MADRAS URBAIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summnary Unit Costs for Sites and Services
Estimated Cost      Cost per     Cost per Market-  Cost pe7       Cost per
Component                            (1976 Prices) /1  Gross Hectare   able Hectare /2  Capita  3      Plot _4
Rs m     US$'000  Rs'000   US$   Rs'OOO      bw5$   Rs     US$    Rs      US$
A. Land                              6.60       735     37.7   4,190   57.9    6,433    65.0   7.2    356.8   39.6
B. Site Preparation                  6.o5       675     34.6  3,841   53.1    5,897    59.5   6.6    327.0   36.,
C. On-Site Infrastructure,          22.10     2,455    126.3  14,032  193.9   21,540   217.5  24.2  1,194.6  132.7
of which:
- Roads                         3.15        350     18.0   2,000   27.6    3,070    31.0   3.5    170.2   18.9
- Drainage                      2.05        230     11.7   1,302   18.0   1,998    20.2   2.3    110.8   12.3
- Lighting                      4.70        520     26.9   2,984   41.2    4,581    46.2  5.1    254.1   28.2
- Water Supply                  5.30        590     30.3   3,365   46.5    5,166    52.2   5.8    286.5   31.8
-  Sewerage                     6.90        765     39.4  4,381   60.5    6,725    67.9   7.5    373.0   41.5
D. On-Plot Development,             26.65     2,960    152.3  16,921  233.8   25,975   262.3  29.1  1,440.5  160.0
of which:
- Core Units                   21.10      2,345    120.6  13,397  185.1   20,565   207.7  23.1  1,140.5  126.7
-  Self-Help Building           5.55        615     31 .7   3,524   48.7    5,410    54.6   6.o    300.0   33.3
Materials
E. Off-Site Infrastructure,         11.95     1,330     68.3   7,587  104.8   11,647   117.6  13.1    645.9   71.7
of which:
- Access Roads                    .60        70      3.4    381    5.3        585     5.9    .7      32.4    3.6
- Drainage                       .35         40      2.0     222    3.1       341     3.4   .4       18.9    2.1
- Water Supply                  5.40        6oo     30.9   3,429   47.4    5,263    53.2   5.9    291.9   32.4
-  Sewerage                     5.60        620     32.0   3,555   49.1    5,458    55.1   6.1    302.7   33.6
F. Conxmmnity Facilities,            2.55       285     14.6   1,619   22.4    2,485    25.1   2.8    137.8   15.3
of which:
-  Schools                      2.15        240     12.3  1,365   18.9    2,095    21.2   2.4    116.2   12.9
- Clinics, Comnmunity Halls       .40        45      2.3     254    3.5       390     3.9   .4       21 .6    2.4
TOTAL                           75.90     8,440    433.8  48,190  665.9   73,977   747.0  83.o  4,102.6  455.6
/1  Includes design and supervision costs and physical contingencies.
75  Includes all land for residential, commercial, industrial and institutional use (114 ha).
13  Cost attributable to the residential area (83 ha) divided by the popu ati,n served (74,000).
/4/ Cost attributable to the residential area divided by number of plots   3, 7 .



ANNEX 2
Table 5
IND IA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plot Sale Prices
Type of Plot/              Average Price          Total Area         Total Sale
Land Use                   (Rs/m2)                To be Sold           Value
(m2)           (Rs lakhs)
EWS-A                          1                   248.310                2.48
EWS-B                          1                   1 274,20              1.27
EWS-C                          1                    36,804               0.37
LIG-D                         45                   1 54,321             69.245
LIG-E                         45                   168, 256             75.71
MIG-F                         45                    93,883              42.25
Community facilities          30                    96,027              28.81
Central commercial            85                    76,700              65.20
Local commercial              45                    18,666               8.4o
Small industry                90                   113,642             102.28
Kalyanamandapam (social-      90                     3,944               3.55
center)    35                 1___397
TOTAL                         35                 1,1137.,972           399.77



ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections for the Revolving Funds Established Under the
Sites and Services Component
(Rs lakhs, by Calendar Year)
1977     1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Revenues -
'roject funds                                       166.0    316.0   333.0    85.0       -        -       -        -       -
Sale of Residential Plots:
Downpayments                                       -       19.1    24.0    13.2       2.2      1.6     -        -       -
Monthlv payments                                   -       12.1    39.4    63.0    72.8    75.2    76.2    76.2    76.2
Sale of Commercial Land:
Downpayments                                       -        5.3      5.8     6.4      1.2      1.3     -        -       -
Monthly payments                                   -        1,9      5.8    10.1    12.7    13.6    14.1    14.1    14.1
/2
Sale of Industrial Land:-
Downpayments                                       -        4.9      9.4    10.3      1.6      1.8     -        -       -
Monthly payments                                   -        1.7      6.8    13.7    18.0    19.2    19.8    19.8    19.8
Interest -                                            -        -        1.1     2.3      2.8     2.7      2.8     2.7      2.7
Sub-total                                       166.0    361.0   425.3   204.0   111.3   115.4   112.9   112.8   112.8
Tess Defaults (57. of monthly payments)               -        0.8      2.6     4.3      5.2     5.4      5.5      5.5     5.5
Total Revenues                                  166,0    360.2   422.7   199.7   106.1   110.0   107.4   107.3   107.3
Expenditures A
Construction works and building
materials (under the proposed project only)         165.6    315.4   332.3    86.7       -        -       -        -       -
Total Expenditures                              165.6    315.4   332.3    86.7        -       -        -        -       -
Annual Surplus                                        0.4     44.8    90.4   113.0   106.1   110.0   107.4   107.3   107.3
/1 Sale patterns and prices are estimated as follows:
1978     1979    1980    1981    1982
Pattern
Residential                                       357O     4071    20%       3%       27.
Commercial                                       307'      30%      307.     5%       57.
Industrial                                       207.      35%     357.      5%       5%
Price escalation over 1976 base                  1.19     1.31    1.44      1.58    1.74
/2   Terms are 207. down and the balance at 127. over 10 years.
/3   It is assumed that the fund is interest bearing at 5/ per year and that interest is earned on the surplus in each
year for six months before it is utilized for new corstruction.
/4   Administrative costs are capitalized and charged to construction.



ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Major Schemes of Tamil Nadu Housing Board
(completed up to 12/31/75)
Number of Units Completed
Name of Scheme                      Madras               Other                       Total
Land acquisition &
development 2/                    40,871             9,454                        50,325
Economically weaker section
Housing Scheme                        843            3,115                          3,958
Low Income Group
Housing Scheme                    3,947             2,496                          6,443
Middle Income Group
Housing Scheme                    3,842               535                         4,377
T.N. Government Rental
Housing Scheme                    2,113             5,644                          79757
Special Low Cost
Housing Scheme                       994            1,500                         2,494
Total Housing Units                  11,739           13,290                         25,029
1/  Not including about 10,000 slum clearance tenements constructed before 1971 when
the Slum Clearance Board took over this scheme.
2/ Indicates number of plots up to 1974.
SOURCE: Tamil Nadu Housing Board



INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Capital Receipts and Expenditures of Tamil Nadu llousing Board
(Rs lakhs)
Lxpeniditures
Loans and                         Receipts                                                                            Repayment       Works               Stores
Year        Advances        Loan from   Public    Fixed           Loan from   Loan from  Sale of    Miscel-            Total       of loan         Expendi-            Tools           Total
from Govern-   IIUDCO         Loan    Deposit          L.T.C.        Banks    Plots &    laneous                      to all          tures               anid
ment                                                                            Buildings                              sources                             Plants
1968-69          326             -           110         -              -            -           129         -            565           36              399                17              452
1969-70          248             -           220         -              -            8           163         -            639           81              527           (-) 97               511
1970-71          335             -           110         -              -            -           223         -            668           84              665           (-) 55               694
1971-72          205             92          130        28              -          100           114        56            705          122              723           (-) 48               796
1972-73          306             97          110        13            100           50           158        68            902          187              707            (-) 2               892
1973-74          789            103           110       91              -          176           214        14          1,497          489              861          (-) 195             1,155
1974-75          202           209           242        72              -            -           259         -            984          156            1,147               105            1,408
1975-76          353           450           262        50              -            -           272          -         1,387          223            1,258                23            1,504
(estimate)
Source:  Tamil Nadul Housing Board
a M



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slum Improvement
1.        It is estimated that in 1971 about 940,000 people were living in
slum areas 1/ in the Madras Urban Agglomeration (MUA). The slums are not
confined to specific areas but scattered throughout the city. The slums are
not large, averaging some 130 huts per slum, with the largest having about
2,000 huts. In addition, it is estimated that there are approximately
10,000 pavement dwellers mostly located in Georgetown (the Central Business
District) and in the harbor area. No reliable data exists on the growth of
the slums but it is estimated that the growth is on the order of 14,000
households per annum. Estimates for 1961 and 1971 and tentative projections
for 1981 and 1991, indicate the following situation in the MUA, unless suit-
able measures are taken:
1961      1971         1981        1991
Total population (000)        1,940      3,170       4,920       7,280
Annual growth rate                5%         4.5%         4%
Slum population (000)           462        940       1,680       2,610
Annual growth rate                7.4%       6.0%         4.5%
Slum population, in
percent of total
population                    24%        30%         34%         36%
2.        Even with the conservative growth assumptions used above, it is
apparent that major steps would have to be taken to reverse the trend, as
proposed under the project.
3.        An analysis of income levels and general characteristics of the
slum population indicates the following major household types:
(a) Type 1 households are predominatly located in slums on the
periphery of the city and work or seek work in industries
located in the western and northern parts of the urban area.
These households frequently try to augment their incomes by
providing services to neighboring higher income families.
They typically live in thatch huts of about 18 m each, in
1/   A slum area is defined as an unserviced area with population settle-
ments without tenure.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
relatively low density settlements. They have practically
no access to urban services; water supply is obtained from
shallow wells with handpumps mostly shared by about 50
households each. Many of the settlements are in constant
danger of flooding during the rainy season as the area has
no overall surface drainage system. Each household has access
to a sheltered bathing area usually undrained and shared by
several other households. Usually, no FOLs ("flush
out latrines") are available. Whether squatting on public or
private land, these households have no security of tenure.
About half of them own their own structures and therefore are
not paying any rent at all. The other half are each paying
about Rs 10 per month to the owner of the hut.
(b) Type 2 households are generally located in dense slums in the
immediate periphery of the urban center and have or seek employ-
ment in the city. The level of urban services is somewhat
higher than for Type 1, but the high density of the settlements
makes physical improvement difficult. These households fre-
quently aspire to a better environment, but the present formal
housing market does not offer any possibility given their
incomes which are between Rs 200 and Rs 350 per month. They
might be willing to move their place of residence farther
from their job location and commute to the city center with
the extra time and expense being offset by the quality of
urban environment and the security of tenure which will be
available to them in a sites and services project.
(c) Type 3 households are new migrants who are likely to be more
concerned with finding employment than housing. For them, site
location and surrounding employment opportunities are partic-
ularly important.
Selection of Slums for Improvement
4.        The slum improvement component of the project is concentrated in
areas which are developing fastest, i.e. the northern and western parts of
Madras. A total of 85 slums covering a total area of 185 ha with a present
population of about 23,000 households will be improved (see Map IBRD 12401).
Two other major components of the project, the Inner Ring Road and the three
sites and services schemes, are also located in these areas.
Potential for Improvement of Various Slums
5.        Among the slums selected for improvement, some have reached satura-
tion density and size, because the land they occupy is limited by fixed boun-
daries which do not permit them to expand any more. Other slums are still in
the development process and are growing by encroaching on agricultural or un-
used adjacent land. In the high density slums the scope of possible action is



ANNEX 3
Page 3
somewhat limited by the lack of space. Their most pressing problems are
drainage, water supply and lack of social services. Low density slums are
usually clustered in small settlements on land formerly used for agriculture
and in addition to lack of urban services, they have a problem of accessibi-
lity. They also often face a severe flooding problem which can only be
solved by draining an area much larger than the site they presently occupy.
Very often small, low density slums are separated from each other by tracks
of unused land which are likely to be occupied by new slums in the future.
This empty land between settlements provides opportunities for the creation
of social services and employment and can be allocated in a controlled way
for new settlers whose income and expectations are below those envisaged for
the sites and services component of the project.
6.        The improvement program proposed takes into account the different
improvement possibilities created by the various densities. In the dense
slums, the program will emphasize improved water supply, drainage and social
services, whilst in the low density slums, it will also include better acces-
sibility and integration with the surrounding urban fabric together with the
provision of new partially serviced plots on the space available within the
slum area and on the adjoining open space. Small industry and artisan areas
will be created where suitable site locations can be found. Typical improve-
ment schemes are illustrated in Sketch 4 for a low density slum and in Sketch
5 for a high density slum.
Proposed Improvements
7.        In high density slums, the improvements would consist of:
(a) public latrines (flush toilets), drained to septic
tanks located in places accessible by truck;
(b) public standpipes for water supply;
(c) paving of footpaths; and
(d) improvements to waste water and surface
water drainage.
8.        Similar improvements would be provided in low density slums, but in
addition the following steps would be taken:
(a) vacant and publicly owned land in and around the slums
would be identified and an overall development plan
would be prepared, often incorporating several small
slums located close to each other, and giving partic-
ular attention to the possibility of reinforcing com-
mercial and industrial development;



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b) open residential plots would be developed and sold
to new-comers on the same terms as the improved
occupied plots; and
(c) commercial and industrial land would be developed
and auctioned off, to stimulate employment creation
and to assist in recovering the cost.
9.        Security of tenure will be ensured through the provision of free-
hold titles. This will stimulate further self-help improvements and reduce
defaults on payments.
10.       The project will also support employment generation and social pro-
grams as part of the improvements, through the small-scale business component
(Annex 4) and the maternal and child health component (Annex 5).
Service Levels
11.       The following service levels have been adopted:
(a) one flush toilet per 10 households;
(b) one bathing facility per 10 households;
(c) one standpipe per 10 households;
(d) vehicular access will be provided to septic
tanks serving centrally located toilets and
bathrooms;
(e) vehicular access will be provided to within
50 m of each hut;
(f) paved pedestrian access will be provided to each
hut;
(g) one street light will be provided per 40 m of
vehicular roads and footpaths; and
(h) one primary school per 3,000 persons, and one
secondary (high) school per 10,000 persons; the
actual number of schools to be provided will be
determined considering the extent to which schools
in the surrounding areas can meet the demand.
12.       Assuming a water consumption of 30 lcd in the improved slum areas,
some 5 mld of additional water supply would be required. It is estimated
that about 50% of the slums would be served from wells and the remaining
will be connected to the municipal system. The present available municipal



ANNEX 3
Page 5
supplies of 200 mld are already inadequate to meet the overall water demand
in MMA (see Annex 6). However, the water to be made available in the slum
areas represents only about 2% of the total available supplies which will
be accommodated by reallocation of water from some of the relatively better
supplied users. The problem would be eased somewhat with the additional
water which will be available as a result of the proposed water supply sys-
tem improvements included in the project.
Cost Estimates
13.       The cost estimates are based on plans and engineering designs for
typical slums. A description of four typical slums (two low density and two
high density) is given in Tables 1 to 4 together with detailed cost estimates
for the proposed improvements. Table 5 contains detailed cost estimates for
the component as a whole, summarized below on a per capita and per unit basis,
excluding contingencies but including design and supervision charges (fur-
ther unit cost estimates are shown in Table 6):
Rate    Total Cost
Quantity   Unit      (Rs)    (Rs lakhs)
(a)  Provision of roads, footpaths,       23,000   House-    1,300        299.0
surface water drainage, street                  hold
lighting, water taps, centrally
located toilets and washing
facilities
(b)  Provision of services to new/         7,500   House-    1,040         78.0
open plots (in low density                      hold
slums)                                            2
(c)  Provision of services to            166,600      m           24       40.0
commercial and industrial
land
(d)  Primary schools (project                  10   School  125,000        12.5
includes 10 out of a
requirement of 20) /a
(e)  High schools (project                      3   School  350,000        10.5
includes 3 out of a
requirement of 5) /b                 TOTAL                           440.0
/a   In existing slums, 62.7% of the children attend primary school nearby
and therefore the need is for approximately 14 new schools. Six new
schools are required in new/open plot areas.
/b   In existing slums, 3 new schools are required.  Two new schools are
required in new/open plot areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Financial Analysis
14.       Mionthly hire-purchase payments averaging Rs 8 per residential plot
will be collected, plus a service charge of Rs 2 per month per plot. Hire-
purchase payments will be made over 20 years. Commercial and i adustrial land
will be auctioned off at prices expected to average Rs 60 per m .
15.       All revenues will go into a revolving fund to be used for future
slum improvement schemes. Table 7 gives the cash flow estimate for the
fund.
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
16.       The slum improvement component will be implemented by TNSCB.  The
TNSCB was established in 1971 as a statutory body to take over all slum
improvement and clearance/resettlement activities in the city of Madras.
Until then, this work was the responsibility of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board.
The Board is comprised of a Chairman appointed by GTN and 23 members, of
which eight are senior government officials. Under its Act, TNSCB has wide
powers for clearance, relocation and improvement of slum areas in Madras.
17.       TNSCB is organized into two functional branches (Chart 8).  The
Engineering Branch, headed by a Chief Engineer, is responsible for planning,
design and execution of all works. The functions of revenue collection,
accounting, administration and statistics are under a separate branch headed
by a Secretary. The Chief Engineer is assisted by a Superintending Engineer,
an Executive Engineer responsible for design and planning, and one Executive
Engineer for each of the six divisions into which the city has been divided
for the purpose of implementation of schemes.
18.       Although TNSCB has been assigned the responsibility of both slum
improvement and clearance/resettlement, up to now its main emphasis has been
on the latter. Under the clearance/resettlement program, it has cleared a
number of slums and has constructed multi-story flats in their place to
accommodate the residents of the cleared slums.
19.       The slum clearance program has been almost entirely financed from
grants. Each flat costs about Rs 10,000 (US$1,100). The monthly rent of
about Rs 10 (US$1.10), which has been prescribed as a ceiling by GTN, merely
covers about 10% of the cost of flats, assuming an interest rate of 12%.
Expenditures of TNSCB on slum clearance and improvement over the past five
years are shown in Table 8. In spite of heavy expenditures, the impact of
the program on the slum population in Madras has been insignificant.
20.       For the execution of the slum improvement schemes proposed under
the project, TNSCB will establish three separate divisions which will be
responsible exclusively for the execution of these schemes. Each division



ANNEX 3
Page 7
will be headed by an executive engineer. The design and surveys for the
improvement works will be carried out by a separate planning unit in the
Planning Cell.
Economic Evaluation
21.       The slum improvement component would generate a wide range of
benefits, including improvements in living conditions of some 23,000
families currently living in slum areas of Madras. Improvements in the
physical environment, including provision of water supply, communal toi-
lets, paved footpaths and removal of stagnant surface water during the
rainy season, will have a direct effect on the health of the residents.
Experience in other cities has shown that security of tenure to be pro-
vided to the residents covered by the project will encourage them to make
investments in the improvement of their dwellings. Training and social
support programs (see Annex 4 and 5) provided as complementary inputs to
slum improvement will improve the economic and social well-being of the
slum dwellers.
22.       The economic benefits of slum improvement are measured by the
possible increases in rental values of the property which would take place
as a result of the improvement. While this approach must be subject to
several qualifications, since certain benefits such as those which are
health-related may be only very imperfectly reflected in property values,
it does provide a useful indicator of the minimum economic value of the
project.
23.       A comparison of land values in low-income areas elsewhere in the
city which have access to basic infrastructure faciliiies indicates that
an average rental value of Rs 25 per month for a 15 m dwelling can be expec-
ted after improvement. 1/ The commercial land to be developed in the vicinity
of the slums as a part of the improvement program has been valued at its
estimated market value of Rs 60 per m (two thirds of the value under the
sites and services component). The economic rate of return using these
assumptions is calculated to be 18%. A 20% increase in project cost would
reduce the rate of return to 14% and a 20% reduction in benefits would re-
sult in a rate of return of 13%.
1/   See "Space and Shelter for Urban Population:  A Report on Madras City,"
prepared by the School of Architecture and Planning, Madras (undated).



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Slum Improvement Scheme I
Summary Description
Name of Slum                              Somasundra Bharathi Nagar
Locality                                  Vijaya Gardens, Division No. 114
Area                                      0.95 hectare
No. of households in the slum             162
Density                                   170 households/hectare
Type of Slum                              Low density
No. of additional open plots to-be
provided                               : Nil
Total of households at saturation      : 162
Average size of plots                  : 20 m
Total base cost of proposed
improvements                           * Rs 186,320
Cost/household                         : Rs 1 ,150
Provision of Public Facilities
Required     Existing    Proposed
Bath and F.O.L./1                                        17            5           15
Public water tap                                         15           _
Street light                                             17          17
Pre-School                                                1           -             1
Cottage industry shed                                     1           -             1
Detailed Cost Estimates
Descriotion                        Quantity             Rate (Rs)         Total Cos+itTR7
Construction of bath and           12 sets              3,050     per set      36,600
F.O.L.
Septic tank for bath and           1 No.                6,350     each          6,350
F.O.L.
Laying of water main               685 meters              63.52  per meter   43,510
Construction of 12r0" diameter    1 No.                31,860     each         31,860
public well
Construction of pump room          1 No.                5,760     each          5,760
and overhead tank including
pump
Public water taps                  15 Nos.                510     each          7,650
Formation of roads, bitumen        1,858 m2                18.24  per m2       33,890
surface
Sub-total                                                                     1o5,620
Design and supervision                                                         20, 700
Total                                                                         186, 320
/1   Flush out latrine



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Slum Improvement Scheme II
Summary Description
Name of Slum                                : Naduvankari -M.G.R. Colony
Locality                                    : Annanagar, Division No. 61
Area                                        : 1.42 hectare
No. of households in the slum               : 164
Density                                        116 households/hectare
Type of slum                                : Low Density
No. of additional open plots to be
provided                                    : 54
Total no. of households at saturation       : 218 2
Average size of plots                       :  20 m
Total base cost of proposed
improvements                                : Rs 266,415
Cost/household                              : Rs 1,222
Provision of Public Facilities
Required      Existing        Proposed
Bath and F.0.L./1                              22             -             22
Public water tap                               23             -             23
Street light                                   20             -              20
Pre-School                                      2             -              2
Cottage industry shed                           1             -              1
Detailed Cost Estimates
Descrintion                        Quantity          Rate (Rs)             Total Cost (Rs)
Construction of bath and           22 sets           3,050        per set     67,100
F.O.L.
Septic tank for bath and           --                Will be connected to           0
F.O.L.                                               sewer main nearby
Laying of water main               700 meters           63.52    per meter   44,L65
Public water taps                  23 Nos.2            510        each        11,730
Formation of roads, bitumen        3,000 m              15.24    per i2        54,720
surface
Pavement of footpaths              780 m2               21.08    per m2        16,400
Street lights                      20 Nos.           2,120        each         42,400
Sub-total                                                                     236,815
Design and supervision                                                         29,600
Total                                                                         266,415
7F  Flush out latrine.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELO0N T PROJECT
Typical Slum Improvement Scheme III
Summary Description
Name of Slum                            : Seeranipuran & Dharmapuram
Locality                                : Kodambakkam High Road,
Division No. 102
Area                                     : 2.45 hectare
No. of households in the slum            : 412
Density                                 : 290 households/hectare
Type of slum                            : High Density
No. of additional open plots to be
provided                                : Nil
Total no. of households at saturation: 412
Average size of plots                   : 20 m2
Total base cost of proposed
improvements                            : Rs 778,237
Cost/household                          : Rs 1,093
Provision of Public Facilities
Required      Existing          Proposed
Bath and F.O.L./1                             72             16               54
Public water tap                             70              8                62
Street light                                  26             26
Pre-Schools                                   6              -                 6
Cottage industry shed                         1                                1
Detailed Cost Estimates
Description                       Quantity              Rate (Rs)              Total Cost(Rs)
Construction of bath and          54 sets               3,050        per set      164,700
F.O.L.
Septic tank for bath and          -                     Will be connected to             0
F.O.L.                                                  sewer main nearby
Laying of water main              1 ,000 lineal meters     63.52    per meter    63,520
Construction of public well       3 Nos.               31,860        each          95,580
Construction of pump room and   3 Nos.                  5,760        each          17,280
overhead tank including pump
Public water taps                 62 Nos.               510          each          31,620
Formation of roads, bitumen       2,880 m2                 18.24     per m2        52,530
surface
Pavement of footpaths             9,800 m2                21.08      per m2       206,630
Storm water drain                 220 lineal meters       272.30    per m2         59,905
Sub-total                                                                        691 ,765
Design and supervision                                                            86,470
Tota_                                                                            778,235
/1   Flush out latrine.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Slum Improvement Scheme IV
Summary Description
Name                                    :Mangammal Thottam and Sivagani Ammal Nagar
Locality                                : Arunachaleswar Koil Street
Division No. 22
Area                                    :1 .5 hectare
No. of households in slum                 500
Density                                 : 333 households/hectare
Type of slum                            :High Density
No. of additional open plots to be
provided                                : 30
Total no. of households at saturation :530
Average size of plot proposed           : 20 m2 in slum area and 40 m2 in new area
Total base cost                         : Rs 561,066
Cost/household                          :Rs 1,060
Provision of Public Facilities
Required      Existing      Proposed
Bath and F.O.L./1                     50              14           50
Public water tap                      50       (to be improved)   50
Street light                          30               -           20
Pre-School                             6               -            6
Cottage industry shed                  1               -            1
Detailed Cost Estimates
Description                      Quantity        Rate (Rs)               Total Cost
Construction of bath and         50 sets         3,050      per set         152,500
F.0.L.
Septic tank for bath and           -             Will be connected
F.O.L.                                           to sewer main nearby              0
Laying of water main             900 meters         63.52   per m            57,168
Construction of 12'0"1 diameter  3 Nos.         31,860      each             95,580
public well
Construction of pump room and   3 Nos.           5,760      each             17,280
overhead tank
Pablic water taps                50 Nos.            510     each             25,500
Formation of roads, bitumen      2,300 m            18.24   m2               41,952
surface
Pavement of footpaths            2,600 m2           21.08   m2               54,608
Street lighting                  20 Nos.         2,120      each             42,400
Laying of sewer line             279.22 meters      26.10   per m             7,288
Relocation of huts               50 Nos.            85      each              4,250
Sub-total                                                                    498,726
Design and supervision                                                       62,340
Total                                                                       561,066
/1   Flush out latrine.



ANN13X 3
Table 5
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN EVELOPIENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates for the Slum Improvement Component
US$     % of
Rs lakhs   '000    Total
A.  Sewerage
1.  Communal toilets and baths (2,350 sets)        71.67    796      18
2.  Septic tanks (25)                               1.66     18       0
3.  Sewer mains (7,300 m)                           1.90      21      1
Sub-total, A                                   75.23    835      19
B.  Water Supply
1.  Public water taps (2,600)                      13.26    147       3
2. Wells (180)                                     58.17    646      15
3.  Water pumps plus tanks (180)                   10.52    117       3
4. Water mains (86 km)                             54.43    605      14
Sub-total, B                                  136.38  1,515      35
C. Roads and Drainage
1. Roads and footpaths (660 km)                   120.22  1,336      31
2.  Street lights (1,050)                          22.12    246       6
3.  Drainage                                       15.62    174       4
Sub-total, C                                  157.96  1,756      41
D.  Relocation (1,300 huts)                             1.11      12      0
E.  Schools
1.  Primary schools (10)                           11.10    123       3
2.  Secondary schools (3)                           935    104        2
Sub-total, E                                   20.45    227       5
Sub-total, A - E                              391.13  4j345    100
F.  Design and Supervision (12.5Z)                     48.87    543
Sub-total                                     440.00  4,888
G. Contingencies
1.  Physical (10%)                                 44.0-    489
2.  Price  (see para 4.03)                        122.OC  1,355
Sub-total,  G                                 166.00  1,844
TOTAL                                         6o6.orC 6,732



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Summary Unit Costs for Slum Improvement
Estimated Cosh                  /2                  13                 A
Component       (1976 Prices) Gost per Hectare   Cost Der Dwelling   Cost per Capita-
Rs m    US$ m   Rs         US$     _ _ __US$           Rs         US$
Sewerage        9.30    1.05    50,300     5,700     305      33.9      55.5       6.3
Water Supply   16.90    1.90    91,400    10,300     554      61.6    100.9       11.3
Roads and      16.40   1.95    88,600    10,500      538      59.7      97.9      11.6
Footpaths
Drainage        1.95    0.25    10,500      1,1400    64       7.1      11.6       1.5
Schools         2.55    0.30    13,800      1,6oo     84       9.3      15.2       1.8
TOTAL          47.10   5.45   254,600    29,500   1,545    171.6    281.1         32.5
/1  Including design and supervision costs and physical contingencies.
77  Cost divided by total area covered (185 ha).
73 Cost divided by all existing dwellings (23,000) and the new open plots to be
developed (7,500).
/4  Cost divided by total population (167,750).



INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections for the Revolving Fund Established under the Slum Improvement Component
(Rs lakhs, by Calendar Year)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Revenues
Project funds                                    80.0  200.0  219.0   76.0    -        -       -      -
Sale of improved and open plots 2j:
Monthly payments                              2.4    9.8   21.1   28.3   29.3   29.3   29.3   29.3   29.3
Sale of commercial and industrial land 2/:
Downpayments                                  4.0    8.8    9.6    2.9    -        -       -      -       -
Monthly payments                              1.4    5.9   12.4   16.8   17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9   17.9
Service charges                                   0.6    2.5    5.3    7.1    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3
Interest 3/                                       -      0.2    0.6    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Sub-total                                 88.4  227.2  268.0  132.1   55.6   55.6   55.6   55.6   55.6
Less defaults (7% of monthly payments)            0.2    1.3    2.7    3.7    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8
Total revenues                            88.2  225.9  265.3  128.4   51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8
Expenditures 4/
Construction works (under the proposed
project only)                                    79.5  198.6  219.3   77.6    -         -      -       -      -
Operation and maintenance                         1.0    2.6    5.5    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3
Total expenditures                        80.5  201.2  224.8   84.8    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3
Annual Surplus                                        7.7   24.7   40.5   43.6   44.5   44.5   44.5   44.5   44.5
1/  A total of 30,500 plots are to be improved and provided, of which 5,000 in 1977, 10,500 in 1978,
13,000 in 1979, and 2,000 in 1980.
2/  166,000 m2 to be sold at Rs 60 per m2 on terms of 20% down and the balance at 12% over 10 years.   The sale
pattern is:  30,000 m2 in 1977, 60,000 m2 in 1978, 60,000 m2 in 1979, and 16,000 m2 in 1980.   Price escalation
over-mid-1976 base are estimated at 10% per year.
3/  It Ls assumed that the fund is interest bearing at 5% per year and that interest 15 earned on the total
surplus in each year for six months before it is utilized for new construction works.
4/ Administrative costs are capitalized and charged to construction.



ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Expenditures on Slum Clearance and Improvement Schemes
of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
(Rs lakhs)
Slum Clearance          Environmental
Year               Schemes            Improvement Schemes          Total
1971/72              360.3                      -                 360.3
1972/73              452.8                   95.6 /l               548.4
197a/74              315.9                  104.0 /L              419.9
1974/75              387.9                  113.1 /1              501.0
1975/76              315.0                   30.0                 345.0
(Revised Budget)      _ _
MOTAL         1,831.9                   342.7               2,174.6
/1 Centrally sponsored schemes.
Source: Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
June 23, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small-Scale Business
1.        The small-scale business component has two main elements:
(a) small industry development as part of the sites and services
schemes at Arumbakkam, Villivakkam and Kodungaiyur, to be
implemented by the Small Industries Development Corporation
(SIDCO) (see Section A, paras 2-16); and
(b) cottage industry development as part of the sites and services
and slum improvement schemes, to be implemented by the Tamil
Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation (TNHDC) (see Section B,
paras 17-29).
A. Small Industry
2.        The 11.4 ha of industrial land developed under the sites and
services component by TNHB will be turned over to SIDCO. SIDCO will sell
most of the land (about 65%) to entrepreneurs without on-plot development.
On about 35% of the land (4.0 ha), SIDCO will build 120 work sheds for sale
to individual entrepreneurs on a hire-purchase basis. SIDCO will also extend
loans to these 120 entrepreneurs for the purchase of necessary machinery.
Work sheds and loans are to be provided as part of the project. Working
capital will be provided by banks which have agreed to locate branch offices
on the sites.
Types of Industries
3.        SIDCO and the Small Industry Services Institute (SISI) have assessed
the market for industrial land at the three locations and also the suitability
of various industries, considering their employment potential. SIDCO main-
tains on file all applications received for establishment of different types
of small-scale industries. These applications have been analyzed by SIDCO
and SISI to determine the types of industries which are likely to locate on
the sites and their needs for assistance. These are listed in Table 1. Most
of them are expected to be light engineering workshops producing for larger
industries in the vicinity.
Work Sheds and Plots
4.        Three types of work sheds will be built:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(a)  Type A, with 186 m2 floor area (2,000 ft ) and costing
Rs 70,000 (US$7,800) each;
(b)  Type B, with 93 m2 floor area (1,000 ft ) and costing
Rs 35,000 (US$3,900) each; and
(c)  Type C (residence-cum-work hed), with 56 m2 work area on
the ground floor and a 56 m residence on a second floor,
and costing Rs 21,300 (US$2,400) each.
5.        There will be a total of 40 sheds of each type.  Their allocation
to the three sites is shown in Table 2. The plot size will vary with the type
of industry and their storage and expansion requirements. The average plot
coverage would, however, be about 33%. Land use by site is also shown in
Table 2.   Electric connections for the sheds will be provided by the Tamil
Nadu Electricity Board following its normal practice. The entrepreneurs
will be responsible for all electricity charges.
Machinery and Working Capital
6.        The cost of the required machinery is estimated to average Rs 200,000
for businesses acquiring Type A sheds, Rs 100,000 for those acquiring Type B
sheds and Rs 25,000 in the case of residence-cum-work sheds. Cost estimates
are shown in Table 3 for machinery required by a general engineering and a
light mechanical engineering workshop of the size that would occupy work sheds
of Type C and Type B, respectively. The project would include loans to entre-
preneurs. About 70% of the entrepreneurs are expected to seek and obtain
machinery loans under the project. The others are expected to obtain financ-
ing from other sources, including local banks. Several local banks have ex-
pressed their willingness to make the complementary financing available.
SIDCO will assist the entrepreneurs to obtain the necessary financing. The
entrepreneurs themselves will provide about 10% down payment for machinery
and sheds.
7.        Working capital requirements which would be met by local banks, is
estimated to average Rs 100,000, Rs 50,000 and Rs 7,000 respectively for the
three business sizes.
Employment
8.        The following table summarizes the investment requirements and also
shows the number of employees and the cost of job creation:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Type C
Type           Type B    (residence-cum-
(186 m )        (93 m )       work shed)
Land cost (Rs 90/m ), Rs          50,220         25,110         15,120
Cost of work shed, Rs             70,000         35,000         15,000/c
Cost of machinery, Rs           200,000         100,000         25,000
Working capital, Rs              100,000         50,000          7,000
Total Cost, Rs             420,220        210,110          62,120
Total Discounted Invest-
ment, Rs /a                   436,880         218,440         64,690
Number of employees /b                61             34               5
Investment per employee, Rs        7,160          6,420         12,940
Investment per employee, US$         795            715          1,435
/a   Investments required over 15 years discounted to present value.
Assume 12-year life of machinery and 20-year life for buildings,
and discount rate of 12%.
/b   All investment calculations based on a 15-year cycle.  Hence each
job is for 15 years.
/c   Excluding the cost of the residence.
The average investment per employee is about Rs 7,200 (US$800) and the
total number of jobs would be about 4,000.
Project Cost
9.        Total cost of the component would be:
Rs lakhs
A.   Work sheds                                               50.3
B.   Machinery loans                                          88.2
Sub-total                                          138.5
C.   Design and supervision
(12.5% on civil works)                                   6.3
Sub-total                                          144.8
D.   Physical contingencies
(10% on civil works)                                     5.7
Sub-total                                          150.5
E.   Price contingencies (see para 4.03)                      37.9
Total                                         188.4



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Selection of Entrepreneurs and Training
10.       SIDCO has several applications on file from prospective entre-
preneurs who have asked for assistance in setting up small industries. It
has screened these applications jointly with SISI and prepared a list of
qualified applicants. These would be invited to set up industries in the
project area. In addition, applications are being invited by SIDCO from new
entrepreneurs by advertising in the press and directly contacting prospective
persons. So far, about 300 applications have been received for the 120 work
sheds. The applications will be processed keeping in view the technical
qualifications and previous experience of the candidate, his financial posi-
tion and repaying capacity, and his ability to carry out the project. Pre-
ference will be given to persons who are prepared to stay in the area and
willing to recruit labor from the project area. The selected candidate will
be given assistance by SIDCO in the preparation of feasibility studies and in
selecting the machinery and for obtaining working capital through local banks.
If the entrepreneurs require field training (in-plant training), this will
be arranged through other SIDCO-assisted industrial units in Madras. Business
management and financial management training will be provided as necesary
through the Madras Productivity Council and other suitable institutions.
Extension Services
11.       The extension services for the industrial establishments after
they are set up will be provided by SIDCO through the Manager, Development
Services, and his staff. The entrepreneur will be given assistance where
required, in procuring raw materials, in marketing his products, in select-
ing suitable labor and in maintenance and replacement of machinery and any
other facilities to run the unit efficiently. The Manager of Development
Services is a technical man who has under him sufficient staff and will
therefore be in a position to provide the extension services effectively.
Small Industries Development Corporation
12.       SIDCO is a Government-owned registered company created to provide
financial and technical assistance to promote and develop small-scale
industries 1/ throughout the State. The Director of Industries and Com-
merce of the State Government is the ex-officio Chairman and Managing
Director of SIDCO. He is assisted by a General Manager and a financial and
technical managerial team (see Chart 9). SIDCO has a network of branch
offices and a total staff of around 500 of which about 150 are assigned
to the Madras area. SIDCO's staff is well experienced and competent to
meet a variety of needs for assistance of small industries.
13.       Under its programs of assistance, SIDCO provides technical, con-
sulting and marketing services to small-scale entrepreneurs; procures and
distributes essential raw materials and import requirements; and makes
available machinery and work sheds on a hire-purchase basis. Following
1/   Industries with total investment in plant and machinery of less
than Rs 10 lakhs (or Rs 15 lakhs for ancillaries).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
an initial stimulus, SIDCO's programs continued to expand and up to 1976
finance had been provided for raw materials to the value of Rs 25 crores,
machinery costing Rs 5.3 crores and work sheds costing Rs 3.75 crores.
In addition, since 1975 it has obtained financing from Tamil Nadu Industrial
Investment Corporation (TIIC) 1/ for hire-purchase machinery to the order of
Rs 7.5 crores for small entrepreneurs. The scale of SIDCO's activities over
the past five years in these areas is summarized in Table 4. SIDCO estimates
that as result of the finance provided for the purchase of machinery and
construction of work sheds about 20,000 jobs have been provided. In addition,
SIDCO is responsible (in Tamil Nadu) for administration of the central scheme
to reduce unemployment and SIDCO estimates that a further 20,000 jobs have
been created under these programs.
14.       SIDCO stopped directly financing the purchase of machinery in
April 1974 when a consortium scheme was introduced with the TIIC under
which proposals are jointly appraised by staff of both Corporations but
financed entirely by the TIIC which has refinancing facilities with IDBI
and provides longer-term, lower interest rate loans than were previously
available. However, with the funds provided under the project, SIDCO will
be able to finance the worksheds and machinery directly, while continuing
its association with TIIC for the remainder of the program.
15.       As of March 31, 1976, loans outstanding for sale of hire-purchase
machinery and construction and hire-purchase of work sheds amounted to
Rs 4.45 crores and inventories amounted to a further Rs 2.45 crores. These
assets were financed primarily from unsecured long term government loans.
The income statement and balance sheets for the past five years and the pro-
jections for 1976/77 are shown in Tables 5 and 6. In the first three years
of operation, SIDCO was able to run at a modest profit and show a return of
8.9% to 13.6% on Equity Capital. Because of a general economic slump, SIDCO
has experienced a reduced demand for raw materials (particularly steel) and,
as result, suffered a net loss on general operations of about Rs 20 lakhs in
FY 1975 and again in FY 1976. However, SIDCO anticipates some improvement
in economic activity during FY 1977 and expects to break even financially by
reducing the present high level of inventories.
16.       The financing of machinery and worksheds included in the project
represents less than 10% of SIDCO's activities. It will follow its normal
appraisal procedures for project selection and financing, which have been
developed over the past five years. These procedures are considered to
be acceptable. The cost of the serviced land, worksheds and machinery will
be recovered by SIDCO on behalf of GTN at an interest of 11.0% over 9 years.
Of this, SIDCO will retain 2.5% to cover the cost of administration and
technical support services. These charges, although considerably higher
than the 0.5-1.0% spread presently used by TIIC/SIDCO schemes, may not be
1/   TIIC has benefitted from financing from the Industrial Development Bank
of India (IDBI), which received a $25 million IDA credit (No. 356-IN)
and a $40 million Bank Loan (No. 1260-IN) in support of its activities
in the small-scale industry sector.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
adequate to cover all costs. There has not been sufficient experience
with financing of the very small-size industries as proposed in this proj-
ect. SIDCO will continue to cover any shortfall, which will be minor, from
its activities in the supply of raw materials and from its investments.
B. Cottage Industry
17.       Cottage industries will be promoted in the sites and services and
slum improvement project areas. About 5,000 jobs would be generated for
close to 10% of the labor force resident in these areas. One hundred training
centers would be set up at the rate of one center per about 350 households.
At each center about 50 persons would be trained in selected trades for about
one year. After the training the centers would be converted into production
units which would also serve the households in the area who produce at home.
18.       The initial investment will be for (a) construction of sheds, (b)
tools and equipment, (c) salaries of instructors, and (d) raw materials
required during the training period. Working capital would also be provided
at the start of production. Profitability analysis has been carried out for
the different types of production centers by TNHDC, which has been under-
taking similar schemes for the past three years (see para 23).
19.       After a study of the local and export market and after considering
the skills and traditions of the target population, five categories of
handicrafts have been selected for training and production:
Cottage Industry                   Articles to be produced
(a)  Palm leaf products             Fans, mats, baskets, lamp shades, etc.
(b)  Cane products                  Trays, lamp shades, chairs, etc.
(c)  Bamboo products                Hand bags, flower vases, mats,
hangers, etc.
(d)  Papier Mache products          Masks, dolls, god heads, etc.
(e)  Fibrous products               Decorative items
20.       During the training period, the trainees would be provided a stipend
of Rs 50 per month. After the training period, when the center goes into pro-
duction, each trained worker will earn not less than Rs 4 per day, according
to his productive capacity. Further, he can train his family members to help
him, and this adds to his family's earnings. Each center is expected to be
fully profitable when it starts production. The production centers will be



ANNEX 4
Page 7
initially owned by TNHDC, who will be responsible for their operation and
management. After a period of time (2-3 years), these centers would be con-
verted into cooperatives of workers, if this is considered feasible. There has
not been enough experience to date with this approach and it is difficult to
predict whether in fact these cooperatives would be successful. TNHDC would
continue to own and operate the centers if the experience with cooperatives is
not favorable. The progress in training the population in the necessary
skills, market developments, and financial results would be closely monitored
and the program adjusted if necessary. It is expected that linkages would
develop between the small industries described earlier and the cottage in-
dustries, and selected training-cum-production centers might be used for
training in more industrial activities such as certain types of assembly work
which can be performed at home.
Cost Estimates
21.       The costs incurred by one palm leaf products center prior to
production start are shown in detail in Table 7. The costs incurred by
each type of center are summarized below (Rs):
Palm                              Papier
Leaf       Cane       Bamboo      Mache     Fibrous
Products  Products   Products   Products  Products
A.   Shed               21,000    31,200       31,200     21,000    26,200
B.   Training,          48,500    54,000       43,000     43,500    51,500
equipment
C.   Raw materials       8,500    35,000       20,000     25,000    22,500
D.   Staff salaries      7,860      7,860       7,860       7,860     7,860
Total              85,860   128,060    102,060       97,360   108,060
Per trainee         1,715      2,560      2,040       1,945      2,160
22.       Project costs include the cost of sheds, training, and equipment
as shown above, under the assumption that the same number (20) of centers
will be set up for each type of proudct. Total cost is:
Rs lakhs
Sheds                                               26.12
Training and equipment                              48.10
Sub-total                                      74.22
Physical contingencies  (10% on sheds)               2.61
Price contingencies (see para 4.03)                 19.36
Total                                          96.19
Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation
23.       The implementation of the cottage industries component will be
the responsibility of TNHDC, which is a public limited company established



ANNEX 4
Page 8
in 1973. Its authorized share capital is Rs 50 lakhs, consisting of 50,000
shares of Rs 100 each. The share capital issued to Government is Rs 30 lakhs
comprising the value of the buildings and stocks transferred from time to
time. Twenty-five per cent of the authorized share capital is being sub-
scribed to by the artisans. For its working capital, TNHDC gets open-cash
credit from Canara Bank, Indian Bank and Vijaya Bank on hypothication of
stocks. Government also has given a medium-term loan of Rs 50 lakhs during
1974-75.
24.       The activities of the Corporation can be broadly classified into
four categories:
(a) sales and marketing;
(b) training;
(c) production; and
(d) general development.
Sales and Marketing
25.       On its establishment, TNHDC took over 15 sales emporia from the
Department of Industries and Commerce and the former Handicrafts Marketing
Society. During the last two years, four new emporia were started, one each
in Bombay and Bangalore and two at Madras, and the New Delhi emporium was
upgraded. By the end of 1977, TNHDC will have 20 emporia, 16 within and 4
outside the State. The sales of TNHDC in 1974/75 were Rs 133 lakhs, which
increased to 162 lakhs in 1975/76.
26.       TNHDC is making rapid strides in export.  In 1975-76, it exported
handicrafts worth Rs 7 lakhs. In 1976-77, it is expected to export more
than Rs 25 lakhs worth of handicrafts. Apart from sales through the emporia
and export, exhibitions are conducted from time to time in big cities. Hand-
icrafts of Tamil Nadu are also being sold in other State capitals through
their emporia on a reciprocal basis.
Training Centers
27.       In 1974, TNHDC took over nine training centers, three training-cum-
production centers, one production center and one design center from the
Directorate of Industries and Commerce. During the last one and a half years,
the Corporation has started three new training centers at Nachiarkoil,
Tanjore and Madras.  Thus, TNHDC now has 12 training centers and 3 training
and production centers. Apart from this, since 1975-76 TNHDC has run three
master-craftsmen training centers. The total number of young boys and girls
from artisan families trained in 1975-76 was 174. The trainees belong mostly
to scheduled castes and backward classes. The training period ranges between
six months and three years, and the trainees are absorbed in the production
centers on completion of training.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Production
28.       As mentioned above, three training-cum-production centers and
one production center were taken over from the Directorate of Industries and
Commerce in 1974. Subsequently, TNHDC started three production centers in
Mahabalipuram, Kumbakonam and Madurai and ten production centers in the
premises of the training centers taken over from the Government. The train-
ing and production units include almost all the crafts of Tamil Nadu, e.g.
palm leaf, cane, fiber, sheet metal, bronze, wood carving, lacquered toys,
rosewood tables, stone sculpture and bell metal.
General Development
29.       About 50% of the handicrafts sold by THNDC are bought directly
from the artisans. The remaining are bought through their cooperative
societies or are made in the production centers.  TNHDC helps the artisans
by giving them raw materials, helping them to get loans and giving them
advice regarding design and process improvement. During 1975-76, scarce
raw materials worth Rs 1 lakh were distributed to artisans, and 20 artisans
received loans to establish their own shops.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Types of Small-Scale Industries Expected to Locate on
the Project Sites
1.   Aluminum and Stainless Steel Vessels
2.   Automobile Parts
3.   Bakelite Products
4.   Bicycle Parts
5.   Canning of Food*
6.   Cartons and Boxes
7.   Decorated Crockery
8.   Electrical Goods
9.   Envelopes*
10.   Furniture
11.   Glassware
12.   Grills and Gates
13.   Jobwork Engineering
14.   Knitted products
15.   Leather Products*
16.   Line and Half-Tone Blocks
17.   Machine Shop
18.   Metal Boxes
19.   Optical Instruments
20.   Optical Frames*
21.   Paper Cones*
22.   Paper Capacitors*
23.   Plastic and Rigid PVC Items
24.   Printing and Book Binding*
25.   Photo Processing
26.   Radio Assembly
27.   Rubber Products
28.   Scientific Instruments
29.   Slide and Cinema Projectors
30.   Springs, Pins, Bolts and Nuts
31.   Sportg Goods
32.   Suitcases, Bags*
33.   Tailoring and Garments*
34.   Tablets*
35.   Textile Parts
36.   Toys*
37.   Umbrella Frames
38.   Wood Working
39.   Wire Products
40.   Zip Fasteners
*Suitable for Residence-cum-worksheds.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Work Sheds, Floor Area and Land Area,
by Site
Arumbakkam   Villivakkam   Kodungaiyur       Total
Number of sheds:
Type A (186 m2)              8             16             16            40
Type B ( 93 m2)              8             16             16            40
Type C ( 56 m2)              8             16             16            40
Total                   24             48             48          120
Total floor area (m2):
Type A                   1,488          2,976          2,976         7,440
Type B                     744          1,488          1,488        3,720
Type C                     448            896            896         2,240
Total                2,680          5,360         5,360        13,400
Total land area (m2):
Type A                   4,464          8,928          8,928       22,320
B                   2,232         4,464          4,464        11,160
C                   1,344         2,688          2,688         6,720
Total               8,040         16,080         16,080        40,200



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Machinery Required by Engineering Workshops
(a) General Engineering (cycle hubs, axles, etc.)
Cost
1.  Lath 6'                             15,000
2.  Drilling machine 1"                   1,700
3.  Bench Grinder i HP                      950
4.  Arc Welding set, 300 Amp/
440 Volts/3 phase                   3,850
5.  Tools                                 2,000
6.  Electric Motor 2 HP, 3 phase          1,300
7.  Electric Motor 1 HP, 3 phase          1,200
26,o0o
(b) Light Mechanical Engineering
1.  Lathe with accessories               34,145
2.  Power Hacksaw - 9" capacity          10,970
3.  Shaping machine                      30,750
4. Drilling machine                      10,745
5.  Bench grinder                         1,250
6.  Blexible shaft grinder                2,700
7.  Lathe - extra heavy duty             31,480
8. Milling machines                      46,210
9.  Welding transformer                   7,600
1750850



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Achievements of SIDCO Under Various Schemes
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976
Haw Material Distributed            317        417        576        726        366
(Rs lakhs)
Hire-Purchase Scheme
No. of Persons Assisted         154        01       569        277*       351*
Value (Rs lakhs)                 76        173        233       338*       457*
Worksheds
Value (its Lakhs)               N/A        N/A         32        57         70
*Includes joint SIDCO/TIIC Appraisal Scheme financing.
Source:   SIDCO



ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPME2'T PROJECT
Small Industries Development Corporation
Income Statements for Years Ending March 31, 1972-7.7
(Rs Lakhs)
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
Revised
Actual                     Estimate   Budget
A.  Income from Sales,           384        430        591        733       493        429
Interest & Charges
B.  Expenditures
- Salaries & Other            13         23         25        33         34         35
Expenses
- Interest on Loans            8          8        29         58         58         59
- Cost of Raw Materials    347         379        522        662        422        334
Total                368        410        576        753       514        428
C-  Profit (Loss)                 16         20          5        (20)      (21)         1
D.  Provision for Taxes            9         12          9          -
E. Profit after Tax                7          8          6       (20)       (21)         1
% of Admiristrative            3e02       4.60       3e78      4e27       7.08       8,02
Expenditure to Interest
and Other Receipts
Profit as 5% of Equity        10.90      13.60       8.90      -          -          1.33
Capital (Rs 60 lakhs)



ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small Industries Development Corporation
Comparative Summarized Balance Sheets for Years Ending March 31
(Rs lakhs)
jjL2      1973      1974     jQ         1976
Reviaed Project-
Actual ___   Estimate                 ed
ASSETS AVD OUThA'Y
>Wet Fixed Assets                     7         9         8        10         9        14
Investments                           -         5         5        14        14        14
Loans a-d Advances /1                66        79       102       113       122       132
Current Assets  /2                  185       253       594       888       690       667
Less Current Liabilities             55        86       178       256       136       112
130      167       416       632       554       555
Total Assets and Outlay             203       260       531       769       699      715
LIAL,ILITIES A`ID SJRPL!fSES
Loans:
Secured Loa-is                   -         -       30       123        50        76
Unsecured Loans               138       190       426       591       615       589
Sub-Total Loans               138       190       456       714       665       665
Share Capital - Fully Paid ujp       60        60        60        60        60        75
Reserves and Surpluses                5        10        15        (5)      (26)     (25)
Sub-Total Equity               65        70        75        55        34        50
Total Liabilities and                         -         -              -         -
Surpluses               203       260       531       769      699       715
RATIOS
Long-Term Loans
Loans from GTN                       65       131      224       344       367       347
6% Public Loan 1983                  55        55       55        55        55        55
Loans from TTIC                       -         -        -                 100       100
120      186       280       399       522       502
Debt:  Equity Ratio                 1.8:1     2.7:1   3.7:1    7.3:1    15.3:1   10:1
Source.  SIDCMWIMission estimates
/1 Estimated for FY 1976 and FY 77.
75  Includes loans for construction and purchase of worksheds and machinery.



ANNEX h
Table 7
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs Incurred by One Palm Leaf Products
Center Prior to Production Start (One Year)
Cost
(Rs)
A.   Shed (1,600 ft2)                                             21,3000
B.   Training, equipment, etc.
1.   Hand tools and equipment for 50 trainees,
dying vats, moulds, frames, etc.                       12,000
2.   Furniture                                                3,000
3.   Instructor's pay                                        3,500
4.   Stipends, Rs 50 per months per trainee                 30,000
Sub-total, B                                      48,500
C.   Raw materials (recurring)
Leaves, straws, dyes, chemicals, etc.                         8,500
D.   Staff salaries (recurring)
1.   Pay of two skilled workers                              6,600
2.   Pay of one Junior Assistant and other staff             1,26o
(in charge of five centers; proportionate cost)
Sub-total, D                                       7,860
Total                                             85 860
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maternal and Child Health
A. Background
1.        A serious health problem in India today is the group of early
childhood diseases called the 'pneumonia-diarrhea complex'. The low level
of nutrition of a large segment of the population is a contributing factor
to the problem. The prevalence of diseases and the undernourished state
of young children result in a high level of infant mortality and morbidity.
2.        In the slums of Madras, as in other slums, the problem is worsened
by unsanitary conditions, lack of utilities and services, and low levels of
income. In 1973, the infant mortality rate for Madras was 72 per 1,000 pop-
ulation. Although much lower than the rate for all India (120 per 1,000), it
was the highest rate of the regions in Tamil Nadu. One out of every four
deaths which occurred in health institutions in Madras during 1970 was due to
parasitic and infective diseases. Within this group, gastro-enterisis and
colitis accounted for the largest number of deaths. The age group of one year
and under contained the highest percentage of all deaths. Twenty-five percent
of hospital deaths was due to prenatal morbidity.
3.        Improvements in environmental sanitation and increased nutrition
play a more important role in effecting mortality reduction than curative
health inputs. The rapid growth of population in India over the last four
decades has resulted in unsanitary living conditions, especially in urban
areas, for over 30% of the population. Improvements in health levels as
measured by the increase in medically trained personnel and the number of
hospital beds have not had the desired effect in the reduction of infant
mortality.
4.        The daily caloric intake in India is about 20% below the minimum
daily allowance recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research 1/. It
is estimated that over 65% of the Indian population have an inadequate protein
intake. Children, pregnant women and lactating mothers appear to be worse off
nutritionally than other sections of the population. Their lower nutrition
input seems to result from cultural feeding practices which tend to favor the
1/   IBRD:  Economic Situation and Prospects of India, May 1974, page 39.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
adult male. The Government of India (GOI) has recognized the seriousness of
the problem of undernutrition, especially as it affects infants, children
and pregnant and nursing mothers. As a result, children and women of child
bearing age are considered as the target group for 'nutrition intervention'.
5.        In the Madras slums, 57% of the adult population are in the labor
force, out of which 48% are employed. Most of those employed do not have a
regular source of income and their earnings vary from month to month. The
average monthly income of a household was Rs 164 in 1971. The monthly per
capita income of the slum dweller is less than half of the average per capita
income for the city. This is insufficient to afford the balanced diet which
is necessary for the maintenance of good health; a per capita income of Rs 40
(1972 prices) has been estimated as the minimum required to provide adequate
nutrition. Women and children are affected most by this shortfall.
6.        The Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) has for a long time been involved
in attempts to alleviate the nutritional problems. A study 1/ carried out
during 1970-73 found, inter alia that the answer to improved nutrition
among target groups involved food delivery systems, appropriate nutrition
education of family elders who are decision makers, and a supply and proper
identification of supplementary food for infants.
B. The Approach
7.        The GOI has accorded children's programs high priority in its
Fifth Five Year Plan. A National Children's Board has been set up to effect
the "Resolution on National Policy for Children". The GOI has sanctioned the
Integrated Child Development Services Scheme which is being introduced on an
experimental basis. Thirty experimental projects were introduced in various
parts of the country to deal in an integrated manner with all aspects of child
care: health, nutrition, preschool education, and the care and nutritional
education of mothers and women of child bearing age. The maternal and child
health component of the proposed project follows the same approach. The
following services are to be provided:
(a) Supplementary nutrition
(b) Health examination
(c) Immunization
I/   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study.  Report of the US Agency for International
Development.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(d) Nursery and Pre-school Education
(e) Health and Nutrition Education and Functional
Literacy Training, including family planning advise.
UNICEF is advising in the setting up of these services and will also assist in
monitoring and evaluation. Cost estimates are in Table I with per capita
costs shown in Table 2.
8.        The target group to be reached in this component is estimated at
40,000 women (15-44 years), of which about 14,000 are estimated to be expect-
ant or nursing mothers; and 34,000 young children (0-5 years). These are the
women of child-bearing age and the pre-schoolers in the 85 slums which
have been chosen for improvement and in the sites and services areas at
Arumbakkan, Villivakkam and Kodungaiyur. It is estimated that under the
project it would be possible to reach about 50% of the target population.
Many of the slums are too small to form cohesive communities where successful
implementation would be feasible.
Supplementary Nutrition
9.        Surveys in the state of Tamil Nadu have shown that the nutrition-
ally "at risk" population are those households spending less than Rs 300 per
month. The greatest proportion of under-nutrition exists among members of
these households. 1/ Consequently the majority of households in the Madras
slums can be considered nutritionally "at risk".
10.       The supplementary nutrition proposed in this component is expected
to cover the protein-calorie deficiency for children and mothers, which is
estimated to be 33% of the total requirement. The food supplement proposed
is Balahar (see Table 3 for composition and cost). It will be given to chil-
dren below 6 years of age and lactating and expectant mothers. This service
is expected to reach 17,000 children and 7.000 expectant and nursing mothers.
Health Examinations and Referral Service
11.       The delivery of health services in Madras is inadequate.  In 1971
there were 16 hospitals with a total bed strength of 8,100 beds. In addition,
there are 51 maternity and child welfare centers with a total bed strength of
379 beds.
12.       The provision of child health and maternal care is proposed in
the child welfare centers provided within this component. One medical officer,
two public health nurses and four auxiliary nurses will service the infants,
pre-school children and pregnant and lactating mothers. Referral service to
other health institutions are to be undertaken when necessary.
1/   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study, Vol. 11 Section D Part II. "A Study of
Feeding Programs in Tamil Nadu" - Report to the US Agency for Inter-
national Development.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Immunization
13.       The infant mortality rate in Madras for 1973 was 72 per 1,000.
The main causes of death are malnutrition, typhoid, diarrhea/dysentry, and
cholera. In the project area, it is proposed to offer immunization of all
childrzn under 6 years of age against polio, smallpox, diphtheria, whooping
cough and tetanus. All expectant and nursing mothers will also be immunized
against tetanus.
Nursery and Pre-school Education
14.       Pre-school education will be one of the major activities of the
child welfare centers. Nursery services for infants below three years will
also be attached to each school. Non-formal pre-school education aimed at
developing desirable attitudes, values and behavior patterns will be the medium
through which children will be prepared for further education. All child
development services will be catered for as part of the pre-school program.
The Balasevikas who will take charge of these centers will be trained under
the project.
Nutrition and Health Education and Functional Literacy Training
15.       The nutrition, health and family planning education program proposed
in the project will cater to women of child-bearing age. The objectives of
the program are:
(i) to promote an awareness of the concept of better
nutrition;
(ii) to promote an understanding of the special nutri-
tional needs of pregnant and nursing mothers;
(iii) to promote an understanding of the health implications
of hygiene, sanitation, immunization and other public
health measures; and
(iv) to generate awareness among women on the need for
family planning and the family planning services
available to them.
16.       Most adult female slum dwellers in Madras are illiterate (70%).
The grogram will aim at bringing the illiterate women of child-bearing age
up to the level of education which will allow them to make better use of
the material presented in the Nutrition and Health Education Program. An
estimated 20,000 women will benefit from this component.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
C. Implementation
17.       The component is to be implemented by the Department of Social
Welfare (DSW). DSW is a department of GTN responsible mainly for family
and child welfare in the State. It was initially set up in 1947 as the
Women's Welfare Department and adopted its present name in 1972. Its
directorate will be responsible for implementing the maternal and child
health component of the proposed project. A similar program has been under
implementation by DSW in Tamil Nadu on a small scale since 1975.
18.       A separate unit being set up within DSW and headed by an Assistant
Director with a staff of about 15 professionals, including doctors and nurses,
will be responsible for implementation. UNICEF is advising on project prepa-
ration and will assist in the implementation, particularly in monitoring and
evaluation. Community workers are to discuss the program with each community,
assess the acceptability of the program and assist the community during its
implementation. The program will utilize mass media and other modes of
publicity through house contacts, demonstrations, projection of films, etc.
to elicit community response to the program. Based on the estimate of the
acceptance rate of about 50%, the project costs include 50% of the costs of
the costs shown in Table 1.
19.       A continuous monitoring and evaluation of the program will be carried
out by the implementing authorities to ascertain the direct and indirect im-
pact of the project. The staff of the child welfare centers will maintain
information on infant and child mortality, incidence of infectious diseases
among children and mothers, and improvements in the nutritional status of the
children. Monitoring of these variables over time would give a better insight
into the duration of nutrition intervention necessary to achieve the desired
objectives.



INDIA                                                ANNEX 5
Table 1
MACRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for Maternal and Child Health Cornponent
(Rs '000)
/1
Total/
1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81    1977 78-1979 80
A.     ILNG
Con-Recurring:
1.  400 Child Welfare Centers (Pre-school)             1,065        1,33C        1,595          -              3,990
B.   SUPPLEMEINTARY NCUTRIT7CN:
NURSERY AND PRE-SCEOOL EDUCATION
Non-Recurring:
l.  Equipment and Furnit-re                              160          265          570           -               795
2.  Training                                              85          105          125           -               315
Sob-Total, B1-32                                245          370           1195                       1,110
Recorring:
3.  Center Staff Salaries ant Expenses                    95          390          74C        1,038            1,225
4.  Feed Expenditures                                    250        1.050        1,995        2,795            3,295
Non-Feed Expenditures                                 h5          185          345          50S              575
Sub-Total, 33-CS                                390        1,625        3,080        4,335            5,095
Sub-Total, B                                    635        1,995         3,575       4,335            6,205
C.  TiEALTU EXAMINATIONS; IM1SUNIZATIONS;
NEALTE ANJ I,TRT7TOTNC EDIJCATION
v,n-RecuLrring:
1.  Ecuipment                                             2C           20           20           -                60
2.  Mcbile Clinics (3)                                   135          135          135            -              405
3.  Vans (3 )                                             6S           6S           65           -               195
Suib-TCtal, C1-C3                               220           220          220                          660
Recurring:
4.  Medical ard Supervisory Staff Salaries               135          275          410           410             82C
5.  Health and Nutrition Education                        25           55           85            95             165
Excenditures
6.  Medici ne                                             6o          125          185          200              370
7.  Vehicle Running Costs                                 20            40           60           65             120
Sub-Total, C4-C7                                24o           495          740          770           1,475
Sub-Total, 0                                    L6o          7 5           960          770           2,135
D.   FUNCTIONAL LITERAoY TRAINING
Recurring:
1.  Teaching Material                                     65          160           230          230             455
E.   ADTINI STRAT ION
Recurring:
1.  Staff Salaries, Stationery, Equipment                 75          140           205          205             420
Sub-Total, A-E                                2,300         4,340        6,565        5,540          13,205
F.  C'NTINGETTTES
l.  Physical (10% on A.l)                                                                                        40o
2.  Price (see para 4.03)                                                                                      3,380
Sub-Ional, F                                                                                           3,7c80
TOTAL                                                                                               -16.985
of wvich: Clon-Recurring                                                                            7,520
Recurring                                                                               9,465
/1 Coet estimates for a 100% acceptance rate.  The project provides for 50% of these costs assuming the dcceptance
rate will he 90%.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Unit Cost of Maternal and Child Health Program
Estimated              Annual
Item                Beneficiaries      Cost /1      Cost per Beneficiaries /2
(Rs '0I0)        Rs            US$ _
Welfare Centers        34,000 Children    5,525 (N)          3.5 /3        0.4 /3
(0-5 years) +
40,000 women
(15-44 years)
Supplementary          34,000 Children    1,270 (N)          8.8           1.0
Nutrition and          + 14,000 Nurs-
Pre-school             ing mothers         6,410 (R)        44             4.9
Education                                                   53-.3
Health Examina-        34,000 Children       830 (N)         5.8           0.6
tion and               + 14,000 Nurs-
Referrals              ing and Expect-
ant mothers         1,850 (R)        12.8           1.4
17.7           2.0
Functional Literacy   40,000 Adult           570 (R)        15.6 /4        1.7 /4
and Health/Nutri-      Women (15-44
tion Educatian         years)
/1  Cost over the 3-year project period including all contingencies, price
escalation, administratie costs and the costs of food supplements,
medicine, vaccines, etc.
/2 Cost incurred annually for five years for a child and for the duration
of pregnancy and nursing for the mother.
/3 Assume 20-year life of welfare centers.
/   Cost incurred only once and not annually.



ANNEX 5
.Table 
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOIUT PROJECT
Vitamin and Mineral Mixes for Balahar
Balahar Formula
Component              Price - Rs            Rint.     Rs/mt
Thiamine Mononitrate                500/kg           3.0        1.50
Riboflavin                          700/kg           4.0        2.80
Pyridoxine HC1                      500/kg           3.0        1.50
Niacin                              120/kg          50.0         6.oo
Ca-D-Pantothenate                   260/kg          30.0        7.80
Folacin                            1200/kg           0.34        o.40
Vitamin B12                          70/g            0.034      2.38
Vitamin A - 500,000 IU/g            421/kg          26.0       10.90
Vitamin D                             _
a-Tocopherol - 33%                  300/kg             -          -
Ascorbic acid                        80/kg         100          8.00
Per Metric Ton                                216.3      41.28
Calcium Carbonate                    1.30/kg          4.00      5.20
Calcium Phosphate                     5.50/kg          -         -
Ferrous Sulfate                       1 .1 0/kg
Zinc Sulfate                          9.50/kg                    -
Per Metric Ton                                  4.oo      5.20
Vitamins + Minerals Rs per mt.                                 46.48
SOURCE: Tamil Nadu Nutrition Study - General Report 1968-73.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Sewerage
A. Background
1.        Madras has a long history of inadequate water supplies and insuf-
ficient sewerage systems. Although the systems were reasonably satisfactory
in the 1930s and 1940s, failure by the responsible authorities in the past
30 years to plan for and provide new water sources, water distribution and
sewerage systems and to adequately train engineering and financial staffs
has left the Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) with probably one of the poorest
systems of any major urban area in the world. Incidence of intestinal and
parasitic disease is high and there have been consistent outbreaks of cholera
and typhoid. Prevalence of waterborne diseases is mainly due to in-adequate
sanitary conditions caused by the lack of safe and ample water and unsatis-
factory waste water disposal systems.
Water Supply
2.        The Madras City water supply system was first developed in the late
19th century, but planning for and investment in the service, including train-
ing, over the past 25-30 years, has not been adequate. As a result, standards
of operation and maintenance have declined. The water supply
availability at source is currently less than 70 lcd for combined domestic and
industrial purposes, 1/ but due to inadequate distribution, many domestic con-
sumers particularly those in the poorest areas receive less than 40 lcd. The
critical water supply situation of Madras was highlighted in 1974/75, when as
a result of a severe drought, water supplies were rationed to about 20 liters
per capita once in every three days. Fortunately many people were able to
supplement this meagre supply from dug wells.
3.        The total water supply available to Madras City is at present about
2.4 m /sec. which is less than half of its requirement. The main source,
providing about 2 m /sec, for Madras is the Red Hills - Cholavaram Lakes
system some 11 to 32 km to the north-west of the City (Map IBRD 12407). The
transmission system to the City from the Red Hills lake are operated and
maintained by the Madras Corporation. This transmission system with a
1/   Comparable data for other large Indian cities are:  Calcutta 145 lcd,
and Bombay 138 lcd.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
nominal carrying capacity of 2.9 m /sec, is in very poor condition and
will need early renovation or replacement. In addition to these sources,
there are a number of small natural reservoirs or tanks, used for local
suppl4es, in addition to wells, which are estimated to yield about
0.3 m /sec.
4.        The water treatment plans at Kilpauk, which rlceives the lakes'
water, has a rated capacity of 3 m3/sec, comprising 2 m /sec of rapid
gravity mechanical filters and 1 m /sec of slow sand filters. However,
the plant has long operated below this rating because3(a) the watsr avail-
ability from Red Hills varies from a minimum of 1.2 m /sec to 2.8 /sec;
and (b) plant operation and maintenance is not satisfactory. Exper-
ience with the performance of slow sand filters has not been entirely satis-
factory due to the high organic content of Red Hills' water and high algae
growth. The operation and maintenance of the slow sand filters needs to be
investigated to determine whether they need replacement, or improvements can
be achieved by other operational measures.
5.        The main water distribution system was designed in 1911 for a 1961
population of 0.7 million, which was exceeded by 1931. Insufficient storage,
pumping capacity and deterioration in mains have led to unequal supplies
between areas, drop in pressures, limited supply hours and poor quality
water at ends of the system. The Madras Corporation in 1954 began remedial
measures by introducing a zoned distribution system. The city was divided
into 13 zones, and each zone was fed directly by a trunk main utilizing the
existing trunk mains wherever feasible. However, these measures are still
incomplete and the design criteria and proposed capacities have been overtaken
by demand from a current population of about 3 million. The zonal system
introduced by these modifications does form a suitable base for improvements
but a detailed network analysis is urgently required to ensure rational
extensions and development.
6.        There are about 92,000 house connections of which almost 10,000 are
metered. The meters are in disrepair and is the subject of general complaints
from consumers. A 1974 leak detection study in two selected areas of the city
revealed surprisingly little leakage from the mains, but substantial leakage
was revealed in house connections. Control of these losses is made more
difficult by the absence or non-functioning of bulk meters at the Kilpauk
treatment works and -in the individual zones. It is believed, however, that
leakage from the sytem on the whole is likely to be higher, and a detailed
survey of leakage detection is necessary.
Sewerage Systems
7.        MMA, being located on a flat coastal plain, with high water table,
has a basic drainage problem. Sewers can only be laid at shallow depths to
minimize costs and a number of pumping stations are necessary to lift sewage
to treatment and disposal sites.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        The present sewer system, planned, constructed and operated by
MC, was commenced in 1910 as a "separate" system i.e. storm
drainage was designed as an independent system. The city was divided into
three areas for collection purposes and all the effluent pumped from these
areas to a single sea outfall. Following construction of these works over
half a century ago, little has been done except to add certain residential
area collectors to the system. By the mid-1950s the outfall was severely
choked and many of the city's water or drainage cbannels including the River
Cooum had become open sewers. A sewage farm was developed in 1957 to take
about 0.3 m /sec of the effluent or about 15% of the total present sewage
flow. In 1959, a scheme for rezoning the city into five areas for a 1991
design population of 2.7 million was commenced, but little investment took
place.  The largest expenditures were incurred in cleaning up the Cooum River
by preventing sewage from entering this river. The 1971 census showed a
population of almost 2.5 million, which has necessitated a complete review of
the sewerage system design criteria. This was done by Madras Corporation
engineers in the period 1972-74 and limited works on rezoning including c n-
struction of three sewage treatment plants with a total capacity of 1.1 m /
sec have commenced.
9.        Currently about 75% of Madras City is sewered, but in MMA, outside
the city boundary, no systems exist. There is an urgent need for studies
to define the requisite systems for MMA, including Madras City and to prepare
a realistic phased program for implementation. However, shortage of funds
for water supply as well as sewerage improvements may prove to be the prin-
cipal constraint to early and substantial improvements. It is therefore
essential that studies under way for the water supply and sewerage sector
clearly define least-cost and high-benefit solutions for the sector.
B. Organization and Finances of the Sector
10.       GTN has recognized for some time the need to rationalize the organ-
ization and management of the sector, both in the State and in MMA. The form-
ation of TWAD in 1971 was a first step (see para 13) but further improvements
in MMA will be based on the report of the UNDP/WHO consultants (see para 22)
expected in March 1977.
11.       Responsibility for organization and mangement of the sector in MMA
is fragmented. In addition to MC and the TWAD, at least seven GTN departments
or agencies and eight local authorities share the responsibility for provision
of water supply and sewerage. The local authorities are responsible, within
their resective areas of jurisdication, for the operation and maintenance of
distribution systems, ground water supplies and sewerage systems. The develop-
ment of water sources (principally wells and irrigation tanks) is currently
divided between the Irrigation Branch of the Public Works Department (PWD),



ANNEX 6
Page 4
the Ground Wlater Directorate and TWAD. These water sources are shared
between irrigation, industrial and potable water supply users. However,
other government agencies also develop wells for specific projects, e.g.
housing schemes by the TNHB. Facilities for the transmission and treatment
of potable water supplies are designed and constructed by the TWAD and
handed over to the local authorities on completion. Design and construc-
tion of distribution systems within the city are executed by the MC, but in
other areas, the TWAD designs and constructs the distribution systems and
hands them over to the local authorities for operation and maintenance.
The existing principal water sources for Madras and the proposed Veeranam
source (see para 18) are currently controlled by the PWD because these are
also used for irrigation. Sewerage organization and management is subject to
similar fragmentation. There is insufficient coordination among these insti-
tutions, although recently MMDA has been attempting to coordinate the efforts
for future development planning. There is a lack of suitably qualified staff
in the existing agencies to design and implement major schemes and there is an
urgent need for training of the existing staff.
12.       Of the local authorities, the MC is the best organized for the
sector in MMA, having water supply and sewerage departments serving the city
area, each under an engineer of the rank of a Superintending Engineer and
supervised by the Municipal Commissioner (see Chart 5). The Water Works
Department has a staff of 4 Executive Engineers and 15 Assistant Engineers,
and the Drainage Department is staffed by 2 Executive Engineers and 11 Assist-
ant Engineers. These departments are capable of undertaking small schemes
related to distribution works but are not presently equipped to execute any
major schemes.
13.       The TWAD, formed in 1971, was the first State Board for the sector
in India. It is primarily a planning, design and construction agency for the
sector and does not have adequate powers to either regulate the performance of
other statutory water supply and sewerage undertakings or to operate and
maintain systems. Nevertheless, it has enabled GTN to focus more specifically
on the sector's development needs since its formation, and it should have a
most useful role as the cooperating agency for the UNDP/WHO studies which are
to make recommendations for improving the water supply and sewerage systems in
Madras.
14.       The TWAD and MC will be responsible for construction supervision
only if the project components and their past performance indicates a capability
and capacity to meet the proposed commitment. However, during the construction
period the sector reorganization should take place, and any new authority(ies)
should be capable of satisfactory project execution.
Finances
15       In addition to addressing the problems of organization and management
of the sector, the UNDP/WHO consultants are required to review the performance
of the sector and recommend improvements in the fiscal operations, including



ANNEX 6
Page 5
preparation of long-term forecasts for the sector in MMA, and to provide the
necessary first stage reforms to support long-term investments. The need
for the consultants' work is demonstrated by the fact that annual expendi-
tures on the sector have exceeded revenues for many years. Deficits have been
financed by either general property tax of MC or GTN revenues. No authority
has adopted a policy of requiring these services to generate adequate funds
for operations, maintenance and debt service, nor to provide funds for replace-
ment or expansion. The latter have been financed by GTN loans, bearing in-
terest rates in the range of 6-8% for periods of up to 20 years.
16.       MC levies a water and drainage tax at 7% on the annual rental values
of property. This tax is consolidated as part of the annual property tax levy
by the Corporation. The 7% level bears no relationship to expenditures on
these services nor does the supplementary yield from water charges based on
metered water consumption. While water connection fees and meter rentals are
charged, except for a connection fee, no specific charges are levied for
sewerage.
17.       This failure to deal with the financial aspects of the sector satis-
factorily is the principal reason for its poor condition and low standards of
operation and maintenance. It is not necessary for IDA to address the problem
specifically as part of this project, because the UNDP/WHO study will provide
detailed proposals for reform by June 30, 1977 and GTN, assisted by the con-
sultants should have substantially completed the implementation of reform
proposals by May 31, 1978. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
MC and any other agency assigned responsibility for water supply and sewerage
services in fMtA as a result of the consultants' review, will (a) with effect
from April 1, 1978, maintain water supply and sewerage accounts and funds
related thereto separate from all other accounts and funds; and (b) with
effect from April 1, 1979, impose specific water and sewerage charges and
taxes sufficient to provide adequate cash flows to meet the annual expenditures
including debt service and provision of working capital for these services.
C. Future Prospects for Water Supply
18.       In the mid-1950s the GTN Public Health Engineering Department
(PHED) (now TWAD) began investigating additional sources to supplement the
already inadequate Red Hills Lake system (para 3). Various alternatives
were considered including the use of the Krishna-Pennar rivers system ori-
ginating in Andhra Pradesh some 650 km eorth of Madras.  In 1959, PHED
drew up a feasibility study for a 2.1 m /sec pumped, treated water supply
using the Veeranam Irrigation Tank as a source, some i20 km south of Madras.
This source, TWAD claimed, could provide at least 5 m /sec and sho4ld be
developed in two stages through 1960-70, each to bring about 2.1 m /sec of
treated water to Madras. The proposed treatment works would be about 30 km
from the Veeranam Tank (and 190 km from Madras). After many delays, a con-
tract was let in 1971 to a local contractor to work in collaboration with



ANNEX 6
Page 6
a foreign firm producing pre-stressed reinforced concrete pipes. When the
IDA mission visited the works in 1973, it was clear that the contractors
would be unable to complete the scheme by 1975 at the estimated cost. Quality
control in the manufacturing process, the logistics of pipe delivery, and
probably certain design characteristics had never been satisfactorily de-
termined, and the mission had serious doubts about the viability of the entire
scheme. By end-1975 the contractor had stopped work and TWAD was considering
trying to complete the works by its own labor in collaboration with the
foreign pipe manufacturer. At that time, out of a total pipe requirement of
36,700 pipes (each 5.3 m long and 1.65 m in diameter) only 10,600 had been
manufactured, 22 km laid and 2 km tested. Cost overruns will probably exceed
100% of the 1971 estimate and completion of this first stage would be unlikely
befor2 1979, even if the design and construction should prove sound. The
2.1 m /sec treatment works (190 km south of Madras) was completed in 1974 and
has never been tested or used.
19.       One of the first tasks of the engineering consultant for the UNDP/
WHO Master Plan Study (para 22) is to review the design and construction of
the Veeranam scheme, and advise on its suitability. To date TWAD has invested
over Rs 20 crores (US$22.2 million equivalent) in the scheme and GTN needs to
know as early as possible whether the scheme should be continued.  The pipes
already manufactured could have alternate uses, but GTN still has no prospect
of early relief for the serious water shortage in MMA. The consultant is
required to advise on the optimum water sources development as part of the
Master Plan, but this information would not be available until about end-1977.
Development of a new source would probably take at least a further 4-6 years,
given the likely distances involved in transmission.
Other Water Resources for MMA
20.       Because of a shortage of adequate local water sources for Madras,
the GTN will probably have to make substantial investments to ensure long-
term supplies. Irrigation schemes on the periphery of Madras use substan-
tial quantities of water. A UNDP Groundwater Irrigation Report of 1969 in-
dicated the presence of considerable quantities of groundwater to the west
of MMA, but this is currently allocated to agriculture. Reallocation of a
small percentage of this water to MMA could relieve urgent supply problems,
but for this a political decision Iould be needed. The UNDP Survey also
revealed availability of about 1 m /sec groundwater immediately north of NMA.
The Groundwater Directorate immediately developed this source and has been
using it since 1969 to supply the oil refinery and industrial complexes north
of MMA. None of this water is available for the Madras City distribution
system and cannot be redistributed without major investments. The Prime
Minister has recently intervened to encourage neighboring states to make
available water from the Krishna-Pennar rivers in Andhra Pradesh (para 18),
and the UNDP/WHO consultant will examine the feasibility of using this
major source.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
21.       Shallow wells with shallow impoundments (tanks) within MMA remain
the only other local source, particularly in the rural areas outside the
MC boundary. The extent to which water supply from these sources can be
expanded without causing any serious salinity problems remains to be inves-
tigated by the UNDP/WHO consultants.
UNDP/WHO Preinvestment Studies
22.       In order to develop sound long-term solutions to the already cri-
tical water supply and sewerage situation in MMA, the GOI approached
UNDP in February 1975 for financing an in-depth study of the sector and
to prepare a Master Plan. WHO agreed to act as executing agency and with IDA
and GTN assistance prepared the project documents which were approved by GOI.
Although funds were allocated by UNDP for work to commence in October 1975,
procedural delays prevented engagement of consultants by WHO until September
1976. The consultants initiated work only in late October 1976.
23.       The immediate objectives of the study are to:
(i) provide within three months recommendations to facilitate
early rehabilitation of existing systems of water supply
and sewerage in MMA, to optimize their use and to eliminate
or minimize the existing hazards to public health;
(ii) identify and recommend within four months, and design
within 15 months immediate works to alleviate the current
potable water shortage and to improve the sewerage system;
(iii) review within three months the design and proposed construc-
tion methods and report on the potential water supply output
of the proposed Veeranam Scheme Stage II;
(iv) recommend a program of training of all levels of sector
staff;
(v) determine the financial conditions of the institutions
responsible for the water supply and sewerage systems in
MMA; and
(vi) recommend management, technical, organizational and financial
improvements in the agency or agencies recommended to be
responsible for development and operation of the metropolitan
area water supply and sewerage systems.
24.       The longer term objectives are:
(i) improve sanitary and environmental conditions in the City of
Madras as a step towards the improvement of public health and
socio-economic conditions in the State of Tamil Nadu;



ANNEX 6
Page 8
(ii) provide the basic pattern for institutional reform and long-
term planning of the water supply and sewerage sector;
(iii) strengthen the necessary basic management, organization, ad-
ministrative and financial systems;
(iv) provide the information necessary in the form of a Master Plan
for the planning and phased development of potable water resources
and sewerage systems for the MMA through the year 2000; and
(v) initiate feasibility studies for provision of adequate
potable water supplies and sewerage systems in the MMA
through an appropriate design period.
25.       For the engineering studies, WHO has employed the firm of
Engineering-Science, Inc. (USA) with local affiliates. For organization,
management and finance, the firm of Fergusons (India) has been selected.
They will employ foreign experts as necessary. The timetable for the con-
sultants' activities is given in Table 1. IDA will receive all draft and
final reports and participate in periodic review meetings arranged by WHO.
D. Project Description and Cost Estimates
26.       Major investments in the water supply and sewerage sector in MMA
will not be possible prior to 1980-81, when the feasibility studies are to
be completed. In the interim period, however, it is possible to undertake
programs aimed at immediate improvements in the system by, inter alia, im-
proved availability of supplies from existing sources, a more equitable
distribution of available supplies, a reduction in leakage, and rehabili-
tation of some of the existing systems. Over the next three years (1977-
80), the project would support such investments. TWAD has identified several
works totalling about Rs 22 crores (US$24.5 million) which it feels would
bring about early relief, particularly for water supply, to the metropolitan
area. Of these, it has proposed the following works for inclusion in the
immediate works program over the next three years (also see Map IBRD 12408):
(a) Third Conduit from Red Hills Lake to Kilpauk Water Works;
(b) At Kilpauk Water Works:
(i) rapid gravity filters (1 m /sec) to replace slow sand
filters; and
(ii) third pumping main (66") to Kilpauk Shaft;



ANNEX 6
Page 9
(c)  Additional pumps and other headworks at Nungambakkam and
Pallipattu;
(d)  Additional underground tank and pump house at Robinson
Park;
(e)  New trunk main for zone 6-A;
(f)  Extension of distribution system in zone 8-B;
(g)  Rehabilitation of old mains in the system; and
(h)  Sewerage works including rehabilitation of Kodungaiyur
Sewage Farm, upgrading of pumping stations, and rehab-
ilitation of mains.
27.       On the basis of preliminary designs, TWAD has estimated the total
cost of these works to be Rs 8.1 crores (US$9.0 million), excluding contin-
gencies. However, in view of the limited capability of the TWAD Board in
designing water works, GTN has asked the UNDP/WHO consultants to review these
proposals and submit any necessary additional proposals by March 31, 1977.
The consultants are required to ensure that: (a) the investments proposed
are the least cost and economically justified and propose alternatives as
necessary; (b) the designs of the various components are technically accept-
able; and (c) the proposed short-term package is consistent with the longer-
term solutions, which are likely to evolve. On the basis of this review, the
consultants will prepare final designs and tender documents by December 31,
1977 (see Table 1). A follow-up IDA mission will visit Madras in April/May
1977 to finalize the project components, by which time the organization and
management consultants would have completed their review of the institutional
issues.
28.       On the basis of a preliminary assessment of the magnitude of invest-
ments which are likely to be required for the immediate works program, the
implementation capacity of TWAD and MC, and the overall financial constraints
of the sector, the project includes an allocation of Rs 9 crores (US$10.0
million), including physical contingencies, for water supply and sewerage.
Price contingencies for the three-year implementation period are estimated
to be Rs 2.25 crores (US$2.5 million). A number of possible works have already
been identified and no difficulty is anticipated in selecting the most urgent
works with sufficiently high rates of return (at least 10%) within this
allocation.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMRET PROJECT
Timetable for the UNDP/WHO Study of Water Supply and Sewerage
To be completed
A. Engineering                                                   not later than
1.  Veeranam Scheme Review                                   January 31, 1977
2.  Assessment of existing water supply systems              January 31, 1977
3. Assessment of existing sewerage systems                   January 31, 1977
4. Recommendations for immediate works program               March 31, 1977
W. Final design and tender documents - immediate
works program                                           December 31, 1977
6. Water Supply Master Plan, 1978-2000                       September 30, 1577
7. Sewerage Master Plan, 1978-2000                           September 30, 1977
8. Review of operations and maintenance
procedures                                              October 31, 1 977
9. Feasibility study for first package of works
in Master Plan (excluding immediate works
program (water and sewerage))                            January 31, 1 979
B. Institutional, Organization, Management, Finance
1. Review and advising on institutional
arrangements                                            February 28, 1977
2.  Detailed proposals for reform (including fiscal)         June 30, 1977
3. Implementation of reform proposals                        May 31, 1978



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road and Traffic Improvements
A. Introduction
1.        The road network in the Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) serves most
of the public and private transport needs of the population and is charac-
terised by the predominance of slow-moving traffic using the system. Bicycles
are the main mode of private transport, accounting for 25%-50% of all traffic
and about 21% of all passenger trips. Buses are the main mode of public trans-
port, accounting for 10%-20% of traffic on the roads on which they operate and
for over 40% of all passenger trips. Private automobile traffic in Madras is
relatively low (about 15% of total) compared with most other major cities in
developing countries, reflecting low automobile ownership and low incomes.
Pedestrian movements are quite heavy in most major streets in the city account-
ing for 21% of all trips. The remainder of the traffic is made up of commer-
cial trucks (15%) and slow moving commercial traffic (human- and animal-drawn
carts).
2.        The present road network is comprised of about 90 km of arterial
roads, which are generally divided roads intended to serve through-traffic
but without access control, and some 470 km of collector-distributor roads.
In addition, there are local streets which are intended primarily for pro-
viding access to premises located along their alignment and do not account
for significant traffic movements. The arterials consist of a network of
radial routes originating from the central business area to the south, west
and north of the city (Map IBRD 12401). These arterials form the main access
corridors for the metropolitan area and much of the development has taken
place along these routes. As the area expands further, it will be necessary
to develop some of the orbital routes which would also relieve the radial
routes from some of their present traffic.
B. The Problems
3.        The present road network has generally sufficient capacity to meet
the requirements of the vehicular traffic. Travel speeds on most road links
are acceptable for the city network, the minimum average speed being about 15
km per hour. There are, however, specific bottlenecks in the network where
traffic is greatly delayed. These include intersections, narrow bridges,
rail/road crossings, and road crossings with heavy pedestrian traffic. In



ANNEX 7
Page 2
a few streets along orbital routes, localized road widening may be necessary
to accommodate heavy bicycle flows and vehicular traffic anticipated from
future development.
4.        The main problems of the present road network are, instead, those
which relate to the movement of pedestrians and bicycles. The footpath
capacity along many major roads is simply insufficient to accommodate the
very considerable number of pedestrian movements. Many footpaths are in
poor condition, having their surfaces un-made or broken up for a lack of
adequate maintenance, and having numerous transverse obstructions which
force the pedestrians to walk in the road. Over the last few years, the
surface of several major roads has been gradually widened to improve the
flow of vehicular traffic to the point that the foothpath width has been
reduced to below the minimum standards. The use of the main roadway by
pedestrians not only poses a safety hazard, but it also obstructs the flow
of other traffic. An improvement in the design and quality of footpaths
would make them more attractive to pedestrians than the road and would
improve road safety as well as reduce road congestion.
5.        On several major roads, including the radial roads, a substantial
portion of the roadway is taken by bicycles which form up to 50% of the
traffic. For roads with a low level of traffic and where the width of the
road is sufficient, the relatively modest vehicular traffic generally finds
it convenient to drive in the middle of the road to avoid pedestrians and
cyclists. The cyclists' speed of travel is not affected appreciably by the
presence of motorized vehicles. Under these circumstances, provision of
separate facilities for cyclists can only be justified on safety grounds,
provided that the facilities for cyclists do not reduce their speeds. In
some of the narrower roads, there is a considerable interaction between
cyclists and vehicular traffic, and provision for separate facilities for
cyclists is justifiable as a lower cost solution than the expansion of roadway
width. Improvements in the present orbital routes can be made on this basis.
6.        Elimination of specific traffic bottlenecks and improvement in
the facilities for pedestrians and bicyclists would also benefit the buses
by improving their speeds. With the present composition of traffic in
Madras, particularly the low level of automobile traffic, it is not neces-
sary to provide separate facilities for buses. As has already been men-
tioned, there is no real problem in respect of traffic capacity so separate
traffic lanes for buses are not warranted. Provision of separate bus bays
are also not generally necessary in Madras because these would only benefit
other fast moving traffic at the expense of additional time required for
buses to enter the bays and additional walking time for passengers in some
circumstances.
7.        An extensive Traffic and Transportation Study completed in 1974
by the GTN Directorate of Town and Country Planning proposed major invest-
ments for expansion of the capacity of the network of Rs 148 crores (US$164
million) over a five-year period plus heavy investments in the rail system.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
These investments were justified on the basis of a six-fold increase in car
and motorcycle trips between 1971 and 1981. In reality, however, between 1971
and 1976, car trips appear to have declined somewhat and there has been only a
slight increase in motorcycle trips resulting, inter alia, from a three-fold
increase in fuel prices. Future traffic growth is expected to be moderate
(perhaps proportional to the population) and the present facilities would be
adequate for the next few years. Individual bottlenecks in certain road
segments were also identified as a part of the study, of which the ones with
sufficiently high rates of return have been included for improvement in the
present project.
C. Project Description
8.        The road and traffic improvement component of the project is aimed
at improving the movement of pedestrians, bicyclists and buses, and to support
the desired patterns of growth for the metropolitan area by improvements in
the orbital routes. To accomplish these objectives, the project includes
(see Map IBRD 12402 for the location of the elements, and Table 1 for a de-
tailed cost breakdown):
(i) upgrading and construction of about 12 km of the Inner
Ring Road between the G.S.T. Road and Madras-Tiruvallur
Road, designed as 2-lane single carriageway with cycle
tracks on both sides;
(ii) improvement of about 200 km of footpaths and about 50
km of cycle tracks, construction of nine pedestrian
subways, and lighting of 24 intersections with high
accident rates;
(iii) grade separation at two road/rail crossings;
(iv) traffic engineering measures and carriageway improvements
to selected streets and intersections in the city network
with orbital flows of traffic;
(v) improvement of seven minor bridges for river/canal cros-
sings; and
(vi) street furniture, road painting equipment, traffic signals
and traffic enforcement equipment for police.
Inner Ring Road
9.        The portion of the Inner Ring Road included in the project is
designed to link together important areas of new industrial development at
Velacheri, Guindy, Villivakkam and Madhavaram with major residential develop-
ments of Shastri Nagar, Alandur, Ashok Nagar, K.K. Nagar and Anna Nagar. In



ANNEX 7
Page 4
the absence of this road, movement from north to south has to pass through the
built-up areas of the city along the radial routes resulting in increased
traffic congestion. It is estimated that the completion of the proposed
section of the Inner Ring Road will result in diverted traffic of about
30,000-35,000 vehicles per day.
10.       From the junction of the Inner Ring Road with G.S.T. road, about
5 km of road already exists and the works included are those to upgrade
this section to a paved 2-lane single carriageway with bicycle tracks on
both sides. The stretch from 5 km to the junction of Tiruvallur road does
not exist and will be completed under the project. Traffic rotaries will
be provided at the junctions with Anna Salai, K.K. Nagar Main Road and
Poonamallee High Road, all of which carry a heavy volume of traffic. The road
also passes over the Cooum river and construction of a major bridge is pro-
posed. Other works included are signalization of the junction with Arcot
Road and lighting of intersections.
11.       The cost breakdown, excluding contingences and supervision charges,
of the Inner Ring Road is as follows (Rs lakhs):
Road improvement and construction               63.04
Traffic rotaries                                14.91
Cooum River bridge                              30.84
Signalization                                    1.34
Intersection lighting                           13.13
Sub-Total                                 123.26
Land and property compensation                  43.91
Total                                     167.17
Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities
12.       Pedestrian Subways.  The project includes provision for pedestrian
subways at road crossings with high pedestrian crossings and vehicle flow.
Five of the pedestrian subways are located along the Anna Salai which has
a vehicular traffic of over 1,000 vehicles per hour. These pedestrian sub-
ways are located at Hindu Office, Shanthi Theatre, L.I.C. Office, Thousand
Lights and Saffire Theatre, which have pedestrian crossings varying from 800
to 3,300 per hour during the morning and evening peaks. One pedestrian sub-
way is located along the Poonamallee High road near Kilpauk Medical College
which has a pedestrian traffic of about 800 per hour and a vehicular traffic
of 900 vehicles per hour. Of the remaining three subways, one double subway
is located at the intersection of South Beach Road and Rosary Church Road
and the other two at Thiruvatttyur High Road near I.D. Hospital and near
Theagaraja College.
13.       The cost of construction of the nine pedestrian subways is estimated
to be Rs 74.43 lakhs, excluding contingencies and supervision costs.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
14.       Footpaths and Cycle Tracks.  The project includes improvement of
about 200 km of footpaths and about 50 km of cycle tracks, Improvements will
include widening, upgrading of surface, provision of guard rails at selected
points of heavy pedestrian movement and markings. Such improvements will be
made along the Anna Salai, the Poonamallee High Road and several selected
streets in the network, particularly those which carry circumferential move-
ments. The flow of bicycles on Anna Salai are up to 3,800 per hour and
pedestrian movements at selected points are more than 3,000 per hour during
the peak periods. Bicycle and pedestrian flows on selected points along
Poonamallee High Road are in excess of 2,500 and 800 per hour respectively.
Both of these roads are also major arterials and carry a heavy volume of
vehicular traffic. About 100 km of other streets in the network, on which
footpath and cycle track improvements are to be made, will be selected by the
Traffic Engineering Unit to be established in the Madras Corporation (see para
29 below). In addition, to reduce accidents street lighting will be provided
at 24 intersections along Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road.
15.       The cost for the footpath and cycle track improvement, including
intersection lighting, is estimated to be Rs 112.2 lakhs, of which Rs 7.2
lakhs is for land acquisiton and property compensation.
Road/Rail Grade Separations
16.       There are several at-grade road/rail crossings in the metropolitan
area. Some of these crossings are located in major streets creating severe
bottlenecks in the system. However, because of high cost of grade separations,
it is important that these are only provided where there is a real bottleneck
for fast moving traffic. Bicycles and slow moving traffic are often better
served by the existing level crossings which avoid the imposition of gra-
dients. The project provides for two road/rail grade separations; one at
Nelson Manickam Mudaliar Road near Nungambakkam railway station, and the other
at Vaidyanathan Mudali street near Thondiarpet railway station. Nelson
Manickam Mudaliar Road is the main and shortest link connecting Anna Nagar
and South Madras passing through a number of educational institutions and
industries. It carries heavy vehicular traffic (about 1,300 per day). The
gate is frequently closed (about 50% of the time) due to a number of express
and suburban trains using the line. Under the project, the road will be
carried in a subway underneath the rail line.
17.       Vaidyanathan Mudali street carries about 400 vehicles per day.  It
is the main link connecting the city with the new developments in the north
and with the oil refineries. The railway line crossing this road is the route
of most express, passenger and goods trains and the gate at the crossing is
closed for a total duration of 15 hours a day. The grade separation to be
constructed will be a road bridge over the railway line.
18.       The construction cost of the two grade separations is estimated
to be Rs 85.6 lakhs, excluding contingencies and supervision cost.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Improvements to City Street Network
19.       The improvements proposed to the city street system include localized
widening, junction improvements by traffic engineering measures, widening of
narrow bridges and replacement of several minor bridges which are in danger
of failure. In addition, footpath and cycle tracks are to be provided in a
few selected streets as discussed earlier. In selecting the streets for these
improvements from the existing network, emphasis has been given to those streets
which would establish orbital routes of traffic thus relieving traffic pressures
from the radial routes, and those which would facilitate the extension of the
public transport network. The widening is to be carried out to a 14 m width
along most of the road length, but it is not necessary at this time to widen
sections of these roads which are already wider than 9 m and capable of sup-
porting simultaneously two-way traffic movement. Also, in some of the proposed
roads, where widening was proposed at the expense of reducing footpath width,
further road widening was not included.
20.       The important orbital routes and the roads included along the routes
for which improvement works are proposed (see Map IBRD 12402) are as follows:
(a) CBD Bypass (Ebrahim Sahib Street). The existing right-of-way
of 14 m to 18 m is adequate and only some localized widening
and channelization of junctions is proposed. Total estimated
cost is Rs 8.5 lakhs.
(b) Inner Core Bypass. It is the only feasible orbital route
in the north-west until the Inner Ring Road can be built
north of Avadi Road. Improvements are proposed at selected
points along Flowers Road, Millers Road, Bricks Kiln Road,
Cooks Road, Stephensen Road and Gantz Road. A bridge is
to be built on the Nullah at Gantz Road as it is presently
too narrow to permit two-way vehicular movements. Total
estimated cost is Rs 5.1 lakhs for road improvement and
Rs 12.7 lakhs for the bridge.
(c)  Orbital Link from G.W.T. Road to South Beach.  Includes
localized widening and improvement to intersections primarily
on Nelson Manickam Mudaliar Road, Tank Bund Road, Usman Road,
Chamiers Road and Annamalaipuram Road; and widening of the
bridge over the Nullah at Nelson Manickam Mudaliar Road. 1/
The total estimated cost is Rs 33.9 lakhs for the improvement
works and Rs 11.9 lakhs for the bridge.
(d) Elliots Beach Road. This road is presently being widened
and no additional widening is required. The only works
included are for providing suitable cross-drainage and
1/   Grade separation of the Nelson Manickam Mudaliar Road near Nungambakkam
railway station which has been discussed earlier, will also improve this
orbital route.



ANNEX 7
Page  7
service conduits across the carriageway; estimated cost,
Rs 10.2 lakhs.
(e) N.S.C. Bose Road and Bazaar Roads. These roads are already
six lanes wide and quite adequate for present traffic. This
route is very well used by pedestrians and buses. The only
works included are the provision of a bus zone and for better
organization of parking; estimated cost Rs 6.8 lakhs.
21.       The total cost of the city street improvement is estimated to be
Rs 89.0 lakhs, excluding contingencies and supervision charges. In addition,
the cost of relocation of services is estimated at Rs 16.0 lakhs.
River/Canal Crossings
22.       There are a number of minor river/canal crossings in the city
which are old and too narrow for the present levels of traffic. Besides
the two bridges included in the city street improvement, seven other such
bridges have been identified as being in need of immediate replacement be-
cause of their poor physical condition. These are located at the crossings
of Demello's Road, Kilpauk Garden Road, Parkasa Mudali Road, Theagaraya Road,
Vijayaraghavachari Road, C.N. Chetty Road and Venkatnarayana Road. Although
none of these bridges carry a very large volume of traffic, a significant
cost would be incurred because of traffic diversion if any one of these fails.
The life of these bridges is estimated at less than five years. The cost of
the seven bridges is estimated as Rs 13.0 lakhs.
Traffic Engineering and Management
23.       At present there is no systematic program for traffic engineering
and management for the metropolitan area. These functions are performed by
the State Police and the Highway Research Station of the Department of High-
ways and Rural Works. Traffic engineering measures are proposed on an ad
hoc basis by the Police on the basis of their experience with traffic en-
forcement and are often implemented without adequate technical analysis.
The Highway Research Station offers technical guidance from time to time,
but it is overburdened with many other statewide responsibilities (e.g.
designs, material testing, etc.). The project would both strengthen and
reorganize the traffic management functions in the area (see para 29 below)
and provide the necessary equipment to carry out these functions.
24.       The project provides basic equipment needed to improve traffic
enginering and management in the metropolitan area. Equipment provided for
traffic management includes: traffic signs, parking control devices, flashing
beacons at pedestrian crossings, road painting machinery and signals for ten
selected intersections. The traffic signals will be used partly for training
of staff in their proper use, as signalization on a large scale is not war-
ranted under the present traffic conditions in Madras.
25.       Traffic enforcement equipment to be provided includes weigh bridges,
smoke detection apparatus, noise level detector, radar equipment and micro-wave
links and monitors.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
26.       The cost of the traffic engineering equipment is estimated to be
Rs 33.9 lakhs and of the traffic enforcement machinery as Rs 26.0 lakhs.
D. Project Organization
27.       The responsibility for the execution of the project component will
be shared primarily by the State Department of Highways and Rural Works (DHRW)
and the Madras Corporation. In addition, the State Police will share the
responsibility with these two organizations for the traffic management and
control aspects of the project.  MMDA will monitor the overall progress of
the project and coordinate the work of the DHRW and Madras Corporation.
28.       All works proposed on the Anna Salai and Poomanallee High Roads,
and the construction of the Inner Ring Road will be the responsibility of
DHRW, since these major roads are under their jurisdiction. The remaining
works pertain to the city street network, which is under the jurisdiction
of the Madras Corporation. However, because of the Corporation's limited
technical and execution capability for the more sophisticated works, all the
major works proposed for the city street system will also be executed by DHRW
on behalf of the Corporation. These works include the two grade separations,
all major and minor bridges and all pedestrian subways. Madras Corporation
will be responsible for the improvement and construction of footpaths and
cycle tracks and for all street widening and intersection improvements on
roads other than those under DHRW's jurisdiction. Table I indicates the
execution responsibility for each of the project components.
29.       The responsibilities for traffic engineering and management under
the project will be divided among the Madras Corporation, DHRW and the State
Police along the following lines: Madras Corporation will be primarily con-
cerned with better facilities for pedestrians and cyclists and will plan
for their future requirements; DHRW will, with technical support from the
Highway Research Station, be responsible for the development of new traffic
techniques, improvement in the existing procedures for traffic management,
one-way systems and parking controls; the State Police will carry out the
traffic monitoring and enforcement responsibilities. Traffic engineering
units will be established in each of the three agencies. Assurances were
obtained during negot,iations that these units will be established and staffed
adequately by July 1, 1977. Agreed terms of reference for the three traf-
fic engineering units are given in Appendix I.
30.       Following the lines of responsibility for traffic management and
enforcement given above, all equipment for traffic engineering will be pro-
vided to DHRW and for traffic monitoring and enforcement to the State Police.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Department of Highways and Rural Works
31.       DHRW is a department of the State Government responsible for design,
construction, improvement and maintenance of all national and state highways
and major district roads in the state. Within the city of Madras, it is
responsible for 36 km of major roads. In addition, design and cost estimates
for all major works undertaken by Madras Corporation are subject to approval
by DHRW and many of these works are actually carried out by DHRW on behalf
of the Corporation.
32.       DHRW is headed by a Chief Engineer, who is assisted by an Addi-
tional Chief Engineer, responsible for all national highways in the state
(Chart 10). Under the Chief Engineer are a number of Superintending Engineers
responsible for separate geographical areas (circles) into which the State has
been divided. Each circle is staffed adequately by qualified engineers and
technicians. The roads in Madras are covered by a separate wing. Following
its normal practice, DHRW will designate two separate circles, each headed by
a Superintending Engineer, for the execution of the project. DHRW carries out
its own design works in accordance with the standard practice in India.
33.       DHRW maintains a separate Highway Research Station for technical
investigation and research. It is an effective institution and is staffed
by competent engineers. Its traffic laboratory and traffic engineering cell
carries out surveys of traffic for making trend projections, analysis of
accident information supplied by the police, design of traffic junction
improvements and sanctioning of developments which are likely to affect traffic
flows. Although the traffic engineering cell has responsibilities covering
the whole of the state, it is presented with so many requests for analysis of
special cases just from Madras that it clearly cannot deal with all its re-
sponsibilities. These requests partly result from the reputation of the
cell for quality advice. It is recommended that the proposed new traffic
engineering units for MMA should draw in the initial stages some staff from
this cell.
Madras Corporation (Works Department)
34.       The Works Department of Madras Corporation is responsible for the
design, construction and improvement of all roads, footpaths and cycle tracks.
The department is headed by the City Engineer, who is equivalent to a Super-
intending Engineer in DHRW. Under the City Engineer are two Executive Engineers,
each responsible for road upgrading and bridges. The value of works executed
by the City Engineer in 1975/76 was about Rs 21 million as compared with Rs 7
million in 1974/75. The present staff of the Works Department would be able
to execute the works proposed under the project which are not covered by DHRW.
35.       Maintenance of roads (as well as other engineering works) comes
under two separate departments, each headed by an Assistant Commissioner.
The City Engineer has no direct responsibility for these works. Separation
of capital works from maintenance works has not proved to be satisfactory



ANNEX 7
Page 10
because of coordination problems and the lack of a proper assessment of re-
lative priorities of the two functions. The Corporation has agreed to re-
view these functions.
36.       A new unit for traffic engineering will be created under the City
Engineer for planning, improvements and construction of footpaths and
bicycle tracks (see para 29 and Appendix I).
State Police
37.       The State Police is responsible for the day-to-day traffic super-
vision and enforcemment in the city. A Traffic Committee, chaired by the
Commissioner of Police for Madras, is responsible for instituting traffic
engineering measures. Suggestions for these measures generally originate
with the Traffic Investigation Unit or the Traffic Unit of the police and
are approved by the Committee. The Traffic Investigation Unit is primarily
concerned with accident investigation. It is responsible for promptly in-
vestigating all accidents and for establishing all the necessary accident
statistics. The Traffic Unit is responsible for enforcement of the traffic
laws and the day-to-day traffic operation. It is also responsible for all
traffic control equipment including traffic signals, road markings and sign
posting. The Traffic Unit will continue its present responsibilities under
the project and would provide information on traffic problems to the traffic
unit to be set-up in DHRW. Traffic enforcement equipment to be provided under
the project would strengthen the unit in carrying out these tasks.
E. Economic Evaluation
38.       The benefits of the different components are derived from one or
more of:
(i) savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from
improved traffic flows;
(ii) time savings of bus and car passengers, cyclists, and
pedestrians; and
(iii) reduction in accidents.
The hourly cost of the different vehicles has been assumed as: Rs 30 for
trucks and buses; Rs 12 for cars and taxis; and Rs 5 for motor cycles and
motor rickshaws. Value of time for passengers, bicyclists and pedestrians
has been assumed to be Rs 0.50 per hour, which is one half of the average
wage in Madras. The cost of accidents has been assumed to be: Rs 15,000 for
a fatal accident; Rs 1,200 for serious injury, and Rs 25 for a simple injury.
All costs include the cost of land, civil works, equipment, supervision and
an allowance of 10% for physical contingencies.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Pedestrian3  Say
39.       The benefits of the subways are measured by the reduction in acci-
dent costs and by savings in vehicle, passengers, cyclists and pedestrian
travel times. The economic rate of return for the 9 subways (12% of total
cost) is estimated to be between 13% and 18% if the value of time is assumed
at Rs 0.50 per hour, and between 11% and 16% if no value is attached to time
savings of individuals.
Footpaths and Bicycle Tracks
40e        Improvements in footpaths and cycle tracks would not only improve
pedestrian and bicycle movements but would also improve traffic flows. It is
not possible to quantify these benefits for a lack of technical data. It has,
however, been ensured that the design standards provided are the minimum
appropriate in accordance with the guidelines of the Indian Roads Congress.
Total investment in footpaths and bicycle tracks improvement and new construc-
tion represent about 18% of the total cost of the roads component.
Inner Ring Road
41,       The benefits of the Inner Ring Road are measured by the cost savings
of traffic -which would be diverted from the existing routes which are 3 to 5
km longer, by the savings to the present traffic using the unimproved sections
of the road, and by the traffic generated by the completion of the road.
Benefits will also be derived by cyclists who would be provided with separate
cycle tracks on both sides of the road, but these benefits have not been
quantified. On this basis, the economic rate of return of the Inner Ring Road
(representing 28% of total cost) is estimated to be 43% and the first-year
return as 54%.
-Road/Rail Grade Separation
42.       The benefits of the grade separation (representing 14% of total
cost) are measured by the time savings by the different types of vehicles,
bus and car passengers and bicyclists. The economic rate of return and
first-year return are estimated at 13% and 12% respectively if time savings
to individuals are valued at Rs 0.50 per hour. The rate of return is about
9% if time savings to individuals are ignored.
Bridge Upgrading
43.       The benefits of bridge widening (4% of total cost) are measured by
time savings resulting from a smoother flow of traffic; the rates of return
are calculated as 10%. The minor bridges proposed for reconstruction (2% of
total cost) are all in poor physical condition and are in danger of collaps-
ing. The benefits of reconstruction are measured by the increase in vehicle
operating costs and time costs which would have to be incurred by the user if
they were to be diverted to alternative routes. It is difficult to predict



ANNEX 7
Page 12
accurately when the bridges may actually collapse, but it is the engineers'
judgement that their maximum remaining life is five years. Assuming an equal
probability of failure in each of the next five years, the rates of return of
the various bridges are calculated to be between 13% and 27% assuming a zero
value of time savings to individuals.
Orbital Road Improvements and Traffic Engineering
44.       The improvements proposed on the orbital roads (25% of total cost)
would generally improve the traffic flows on the arterials and at the same
time make some of the new sections in Madras more accessible. It is not, how-
ever, possible to quantify the resulting benefits of these small improvements.
45.       The portions of the roads and traffic component for which it has
been possible to quantify the benefits account for about 55% of the total
cost. The weighted average rate of return for these components is estimated
to be 28%, if time savings to individuals are valued at Rs 0.50 per hour,
and 24%, if such time savings are ignored.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates of Roads and Traffic Improvements
Proje2i    Execution /2           Estimated
No.                  Description                            Ref. -      Responsibillty    Cost (Rs lakhs)
I.   Construction of Inner Ring Road
(a)  km 0/0 to 11/7, widening to 2-lanes with
cycle tracks                                       II            DHRW                  63.04
(b)  Traffic rotaries (3)                                                                   14.91
(c)  Bridges across  Cooum River                                                            30.84
(d)  Signalization at junction of Arcot Road                                                 1.35
(e)  Lighting of intersections                                                              13.13
Sub-total (a-e)                                                                       123.27
(f)  Land acquisition and compensation for
property                                                                               43.91
TOTAL (I)                                                                             167.81
11.   Pedestrian and Cyclist Facilities
(a) Pedestrian subways:
Anna Salai (5)                                  I/I           EHRW                  38.88
Poonamallee High Road (1)                       I/II         DHRW                   10.99
City Streets (3)                                V/III        DHRW/MC                24.56
74.43
(b)  Footpaths and Cycle Tracks:
Anna Salai (km 0/3-12/4)                        I/I           DHRW                  10.11
Poonamallee High Road (km 1/3-9/4)              I/II         DHRW                    3.68
Lighting of intersections  (24)                 I            DHRW                   23.88
City streets (100 km)                           III           MC                    67.37
105.04
Sub-total (a-b)                                                                       179.47
(c)  Land acquisition and property compensation          I                                   7.18
TOTAL (II)                                                                            186.65
III,   Road/Rail Grade Separation
(a)  Vaidyanathan Mudali Street                          IV           LHRW/MC               44.06
(b)  Nelson  Manichan Mudaliar                           II/V        DHRW/MC               41.52
TOTAL (III)                                                                            85.58
IV. City Street Improvement
(a)  CBD bypass improvement                              III/I         MC                    8.47
(b)  Inner Core bypass:                                 III/I
(i)  road improvements                                        MC                    5.08
(ii)  bridge over Nullah at Gantz Road                        TDHRW/MC               12.71
(c)  Orbital link GWT Road - South Beach Road:           III/V
(i)  road improvements                                        MC                   33.89
(ii)  widening of bridge over Nullah                          DHRW/MC               11.86
(d)  Elliots Beach Road                                  III/III       MC                   10.16
(e)  N.S.C. Bose Road                                    III/IX        MC                    6.78
(f)  Shifting of services for (a)-(e)                                  MC                   16,00
Sub-total (a-f)                                                                       104.95
(g)  River or Canal Crossings:                           V/I          DHW/MC
(i)  Demello's Road                                                                 1.69
(ii)  Kilpauk Garden Road                                                             1.10
(iii)  Parkasa Mudali Road                                                             1.69
(iv)  Theagaraya Road                                                                2.28
(v)  Vijaysraghavachavi Road                                                        1.69
(vi)  G.N. Chetty Road                                                               2.28
(vii)  Venkatanarayana Road                                                            2.28
Sub-total (g)                                                                          13.01
TOTAL (IV)                                                                            117.96



ANNEX 7
Table 1 (cont'd)
Projeqi     Execution /2         Estimated
No.                   Description                        Ref.         R sponsibility   Cost (Rs lakhs)
V.   Traffic Engineering and Management
(a)  Traffic engineering equipment                     VI          DHRW
(i)  one-way system and signs                                                    0.84
(ii) reorganization of traffic at
Central & Engmore station areas                                             6.17
(iii)  flashing beacons at 13 crossings                                             0 42
(iv)  road painting machinery (2)                                                 0 42
(v)  traffic signals (10)                                                       13.38
(vi) traffic engineering improvements
and parking reorganization and
control                                                                    12.71
Sub-total (a)                                                                       33.94
(b)  Traffic monitoring and enforcement               VI            SP
microwave links/monitors, weigh
bridges, smoke detection apparatus,
noise level detector, radar
equipment                                                                  26.00
TOTAL (V)                                                                           59-94
Total Project Base Cost                                                                 617.31
of which: land and property compensation                                           (67.09)
civil works                                                            (510,00)
equipment                                                               (40,22)
Physical Contingencies (10% of civil works)                                         55.00
Design and Supervision (122%)                                                      75.66
Sub-total                                                                      747-97
Price Contingencies (see para 4.03)                                                170.23
918.20
/1  These correspond to the project and sub-project reference numbers used by the project authorities
in the preparation of the project and are indicated here for clarification. The missing reference
numbers in the sequence are because of the deletion of several components from the project.
/2  DHRW - Department of Highways and Rural Works;- Madras Corporation;DHRW/MC - Executed by DHRW on behalf
of MC; SP - State Police.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page I
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Traffic Engineering Units
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the three Traffic Engineering Units to be
established are:
(a)  To provide for the efficient and free movement of present
road users on existing roads.
(b)  To control and, if necessary, restrict the minority of road
users so as to minimize their encroachment on the freedoms
of the majority. This will generally, but not always,
involve the control of those using personal and/or motor
transport so as to preserve the freedoms of those on foot
and bicycles.
State Highway Department Traffic Engineering Unit
2.        The principal functions of the Unit in DHRW will be:
(a)  To establish standards for all traffic engineering work in
accordance with the above policy based on international and
Indian Roads Congress standards, on the standards already
produced for the Madras Urban Development Project, and on
further studies referred to below.
(b)  To identify one-way systems and other traffic management
systems in and around sections of roads heavily used by
traffic or pedestrians with a view to providing adequate
capacity for the existing moving traffic and greater free-
dom of movement for pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers.
(c)  To seek solutions in congested streets whereby one or more
streams of traffic (probably except buses) are removed to
an alternative route so that more space can be provided for
pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers.
(d)  To review the operation of existing traffic signals and to
provide new traffic signals in such a way that they work
efficiently and appear to do so to road users so that respect
for them can grow.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 2
(e) To study carriageway markings, particularly at important
junctions, so that these are applied uniformly. To
undertake corrective measures as necessary.
(f) To update the traffic sign system in Madras to comply
with international standards, which are now endorsed
by the Indian Roads Congress.
(g) To introduce a direction signing system at important points in
the metropolitan area.
(h) To propose and undertake measures for parking control as a
tool to restrict trip ends and hence restrain the total volume
of traffic seeking to enter congested areas.
Corporation Traffic Engineering Unit
3.        The Unit established in the Corporation will be primarily
concerned with providing adequate facilities for pedestrians and cyclists.
The activities of the Unit will include:
(a) Survey of footpaths to identify those being too narrow, having
poor surface, having broken or poorly maintained surface, having
steps exceeding 5 cm up or down, or being obstructed by building
corners.
(b) Prepare a priority list for improvement and program of work
to utilize the funds provided in the project.
(c) Surveys of heavily used cycle routes to identify points of
greatest conflict with traffic.
(d) Preparation of a program for the provision of cycle tracks.
Consideration will be given to providing cycle tracks at the
expense of existing road space, rather than at the expense
of footpaths or by road widening.
Police Traffic Engineering Unit
4.        The police traffic engineering unit will be responsible for traffic
control and monitoring. Its activities will include:
(a) Application of uniform traffic control techniques to encourage
users to obey traffic signals, signs and markings.
(b) Evaluation of switching on and off schedule for traffic signals
and use of police control as a complementary measure for
enforcement of traffic signals rather than that of overriding.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) Enforcement of regulation condusive to road safety, e.g.
speed limits and weight limits.
(d) Devise means to increase traffic police mobility to cover
a larger number of points with traffic difficulties.
(e) Establish a Control Center, having assistance of closed-
circuit television in conjunction with the radio control,
and installation of cameras at selected intersections.
Training of operators on this equipment.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bus Transport
A. Transportation in Madras Metropolitan Area
1.        Bus transportation is the main mode of transport in Madras, carry-
ing in 1970 over 40% of all trips, and over 80% of trips by public transport
(Table 1). Bicycles and pedestrians accounted for another 42% of all trips
in 1970. Railways offer only limited service in the metropolitan area and
accounted for 11% of all trips in 1970. The trips by private cars are insig-
nificant because of the low level of automobile ownership.
2.        At present, buses carry an average of 1.7 million passengers each
day, which represents an annual increase of about 9% in the past five years.
The major increase in bus ridership occurred in 1973 and 1974 when petrol
prices were increased substantially (Table 2). There has also been some
shift in trips from bicycles to buses in the same period. Bus transporta-
tion is expected to continue to be the main mode of public transport for
the metropolitan area, and bus passenger traffic can be expected to continue
to grow as the population and income levels increase. The Madras Transpor-
tation Study (1970) had predicted a four-fold increase in the mass transpor-
tation trips over 20 years (1971-1991), or an average annual increase of
about 7.5%, while private fast-moving transport trips were expected to
increase ten-fold. Spot checks of present traffic flows indicated a decline
in the number of private fast-moving transport trips between 1970 and 1976.
Thus, while the bus passenger traffic growth has been generally in line with
the projections of the study, increase in total motorized transport demand
has been less.  Since the effects of fuel price increases on bus passenger
traffic have by now been fully realized, it is believed that future growth
in traffic will follow the general population and income trends in the metro-
politan area. An annual growth in bus passenger traffic of 6.5% has been
assumed.
B. Bus Transportation
3.        Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), a GTN undertaking, is
the sole operator of bus services in the metropolitan area.  In 1975, it
operated a fleet of 1,340 buses from 11 depots to serve the metropolitan
area.  It provided service on some 199 different routes, of which 102 were
city routes (originating and terminating within the city of Madras) and 97
town routes (having one or both terminals outside the city). The route



ANNEX 8
Page 2
length for the city services varies from 3.3 km to 22.4 km, and for the town
routes from 4.3 km to 42 km. The total route kilometerage for city and town
routes is 1,311 km and 2,110 km respectively.
4.        The bus fleet of PTC in the metropolitan area has a high propor-
tion of older buses (Table 3). About 45% of the fleet is older than 8 years
and about 22% is older than 10 years. This situation has developed because
in the past few years the bus fares were maintained by GTN at unrealistically
low levels, which limited PTC's ability to generate sufficient resources for
its normal bus replacement. The operating cost of a bus increases with age
and usage. Historical records of operating costs maintained by Pallavan and
studies undertaken by consultants to PTC indicate that the cost of bus opera-
tion increases rapidly after about 8 years. Moreover, the reliability and
service availability of the older buses is lower compared with the newer
buses.
5.        PTC's bus replacement policy is to replace buses after 8 years of
service as per recommendations of the Indian Road Transport Institute. How-
ever, this policy is based on the assumption that a bus would be utilized for
the same number of kilometers each year irrespective of age. In practice, it
should be possible to schedule the older buses during the peak periods only
and taking them out of service for the rest of the day, and using the newer
and more economical buses more intensively. With this rescheduling of bus use,
it is estimated that bus replacement can be postponed until after about 12
years of service. PTC has now revised its replacement policy in accordance
with this recommendation and agreed to study the effectiveness of the new
policy over the project period.
6.        The demand for bus transportation in Madras, as in most other
cities of the world, is heavily concentrated during the morning and the
evening peak hours. The morning peak is between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. and
the evening peak between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., the morning peak being the more
pronounced of the two. It is estimated that about 40% of all daily passen-
ger trips are carried during these hours. This results in severe conges-
tion during these hours and buses on some routes are often overloaded by
as much as 100%. The situation can be expected to deteriorate with the
expected increase in bus passengers over the next few years. However, an
increase in capacity to alleviate overcrowding in the peak hours is not
the most economical solution to this problem. PTC and the State Government
have recognized this and in August implemented a system of staggered work
hours for government offices, private businesses, factories and schools,
so that at least a part of the increased passenger demand can be accom-
modated with the present fleet. The impact of staggered working hours
on the demand for bus service will be evaluated carefully by PTC over the next
four to six months. As a target, it has been agreed that increases in Pal-
lavan's fleet will be restricted to 55% of the growth in passenger demand.
7.        There are at present 12 depots where the buses are garaged and ser-
viced. Ten of these depots are designed to maintain 100 buses and two are



ANNEX 8
Page 3
designed to maintain 50 buses. One more depot with a capacity of 100 buses
is under construction. These depots are already being used above their capa-
city and because of this new buses have to be assigned to far-off depots re-
sulting in considerable dead kilometerage, which is already of the order of
2.54 km for every 100 km of productive run. Additional depots would be re-
quired to reduce overloading of the existing depots and to accommodate any
further increases in the bus fleet.
8.        There are some 103 terminal points in the system from which bus
services originate. However, only at 9 of these places are there any proper
terminal facilities. In the remaining 94 places, buses are parked on the
streets. This has a serious effect on bus service and operating schedules,
besides inconveniencing passengers and obstructing other traffic.
C. Description of Bus Component of the Project
9.        In order to improve the bus service in Madras and to enable it
to meet anticipated transport demand in the future, the project provides:
(a) replacement of 285 overaged buses (over 12 years of age)
over a period of three years;
(b) provision of 3 new depots to accommodate 250 buses;
(c) provision of 8 bus terminals; and
(d) provision of 400 passenger shelters.
Bus Replacement
10.       With the adoption of the bus replacement policy described earlier
(para 5), PTC would need to replace 380 buses between 1977-1980. The project
would provide 285 of these buses, while the remaining 95 would be financed
from PalLavan's internally generated resources. In addition, it is esti-
mated that 170 buses would be required for augmentation of the metropolitan
bus fleet. This estimate is based on the target of satisfying 55% of the
increased passenger demand, the remainder to be met by staggering of peak
loads (see para 6).  Fleet augmentation will be financed from borrowings
outside the present project.
11.       The bus chassis will be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines and the delivery of the chassis,
will be spread over three years (1977-1980). Bus bodies will be built by
Pallavan's body building workshop to its standard specifications. This
workshop is highly competitive as evidenced by its winning of several body
building contracts for other bus companies in India. The quality of the work



ANNEX 8
Page 4
is satisfactory. The workshop has sufficient capacity to meet the require-
ments of the project. However, no disbursements will be made against bus
bodies (US$1.1 million) since these would not be subject to competitive
bidding.
Depots
12.       The project would provide 2 major and one minor depot to relieve
crowding at the existing depots and to accommodate the anticipated increase
in the bus fleet. The major depots are located at Poonamallee and Perambur,
each capable of accommodating 100 buses with the possibility of future expan-
sion. The Poonamallee depot is the terminal point for 42 routes and transit
point for an additional 36 routes. The Perambur depot is located in a well
populated part of the city in the vicinity of important industrial areas.
The minor depot will be located at Basin Bridge to accommodate 50 buses ini-
tially and with the possibility of expansion to accommodate 80 buses. Each
depot will be provided with machinery for daily maintenance and repairs,
fuel dispensers, inspection ramps and washing facilities. The depots and
the related equipment will be procured after local competitive bidding.
Detailed engineering designs have been prepared for the depots and are
satisfactory.
Terminals
13.       The project would provide 8 bus terminal/parking facilities at
various points of high intensity usage. The terminals would be located at
Villivakkam, Tiruvottiyur, Thiruverkadu, Simpsons (Periar Bridge), Thiruva-
nmiyur, Poonamallee, Arumbakkam, and Foreshore Estate. The capacity of
the terminals would vary from 15 to 36 buses depending on the location.
Detailed designs of the buildings have been prepared and are satisfactory.
Civil works will be contracted after local competitive bidding because of
their small size and because they are scattered over the city.
Passenger Shelters
14.       Some 400 passenger shelters will be provided throughout the
city to alleviate queuing and congestion problems and to protect bus passen-
gers against inclement weather. The designs of the shelters have been
standardized to suit the requirements of the city. Contracts for shelters
will be grouped into 10-12 smaller contracts and option will be given to
a contractor to bid the whole package. These contracts for civil works will
be let after local competitive bidding as the amount involved (US$100,000
over 3 years) is too small to be of interest to an international contractor.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
D. Cost Estimates
15.       The total cost of the bus component is estimated at Rs 6.6 crores
(US$7.3 million) including contingencies and is summarized below:
--------Rupees (lakhs)-------  --------US$(million)--------
Item         Local       Foreign       Total  Local      Foreign        Total
1. Buses
Bus Chassis    267.2         23.5        290.7   2.97         0.26         3.23
Bus Bodies       84.4         4.4         88.8   0.94         0.05         0.99
351.6        27.9        379.5   3.91        0.31          4.22
Contingencies
Price            72.4         5.6         78.0   0.80         0.06         0.86
Sub-total Buses   424.0         33.5        457.5   4.71         0.37         5.08
2. Civil Works
Depots           35.9         4.0         39.9   0.40         0.04          0.44
Terminals        56.0         6.2         62.2   0.62         0.07          0.69
Shelters          8.1         0.9          9.0   0.09         0.01          0.10
100.0        11.1        111.1   1.11        0.12          1.23
Contingencies
Physical         10.0         1.1         11.1   0.11         0.01          0.12
Price            34.2         3.8         38.0   0.38         0.04          0.42
44.2         4.9        49.1   0.49         0.05          0.54
Sub-total Civil
Works           144.2        16.0        160.2   1.60         0.17          1.77
3.  Land            35.9          -          35.9   0.40          -            0.40
4. Depot Equip-
ment           2.8         1.3          4.1   0.03        0.01          0.04
Contingencies
Price            0.5         0.3          0.8   0.01         -            0.01
Sub-total
Equipment          3.3         1.6          4.9   0.04        0.01           0.05
TOTAL BUS
COMPONENT        607.4        51.1        658.R   6.75         0.55          7.30



ANNEX 8
Page 6
16.       The cost estimates are based on the most recent bids of foreign and
domestic suppliers of bus chassis and bus body builders. Estimates for civil
works are based on detailed designs and use the most recent contract prices
for similar works in Madras. A physical contingency of 10% has been allowed
for civil works and price contingencies of 8% per annum for equipment and 12%
per annum for civil works have been allowed in accordance with IDA's current
guidelines for India.
E. Organization and Management
17.       Pallavan Transport Corporation is a GTN undertaking responsible
for the operation of all local and long-distance bus service in and from
Madras. It has three main wings - Metropolitan Wing, District Wing and
Express Wing - each under a managing director. The metropolitan wing is
responsible for service within the metropolitan area, the district wing for
all services within 200 km from Madras City and from the Coimbatore depot,
and the express wing for long distance express bus service. Each wing is
independent of the other and has its own accounting and balance sheets, al-
though the separation of the balance sheets of the metropolitan and the dis-
trict wings has not yet been completed since the Government order of August
1975 creating the three wings. 1/ The three wings have a common Government-
appointed Board of Directors.
18.       The metropolitan wing of PTC will be responsible for the bus com-
ponent of the project. Under the Managing Director are 8 unit-level officers
including two Operations Managers, Commercial Manager, Technical Manager,
Traffic Engineering Manager, Financial Adviser-cum-Chief Accounts Officer
and Chief Personnel Officer (see Chart 6). It has 7 middle-level officers
and 54 other lower-level officers. The total staff of the Corporation is
about 12,000, comprised of 7,097 traffic staff (bus drivers, conductors and
supervisors), 3,587 employees of the technical wing (fitters, mechanics, and
foremen) for repairs and maintenance, and 1,385 clerical and administrative
staff. The metropolitan wing at present maintains a fleet of 1,404 buses.
In 1975-76 it operated about 100 million bus-kilometers and carried about
1.7 million passengers per day.
19.       The Metropolitan Wing of PTC is well run by a competent management.
It has instituted an effective system of financial and management controls.
Each bus depot has been designed as a cost center and a close check is main-
tained for each depot on performance indicators such as: utilization of fleet,
completion of scheduled service, trips lost, breakdowns, accidents, fuel con-
sumption, maintenance costs, fare collections, etc. An incentive wage system
links the performance of the depot to the compensation paid to the staff.
As a result, the performance of PTC since its inception has been above aver-
age as judged by its fleet utilization and fleet availability (above 90%) and
1/   Prior to August 1975, PTC had only the metropolitan and district wings.
The express service was provided by the GTN Department of Transport.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
a continuous increase in the kilometer run per bus in service (Table 4).
It is believed that because of these innovative management measures, PTC
was able to keep its cost increases per bus-km in metropolitan service to
12% per annum between 1972 and 1975, which was a period of high inflation
in India when general price levels rose an average of 14% annually and when
fuel prices were doubled.
F. Finances
20.       PTC was incorporated in December 1972 and operates as a public
limited company. It is required to operate on a commercial basis and main-
tain its accounts in accordance with sound accounting principles. Capital
and operating budgets are prepared by PTC for approval by the State Govern-
ment which also controls the Corporation's borrowings. Since the 1975 reor-
ganization, separate accounts are maintained for each of the three wings,
including separate accounts for traffic operations and maintenance depots.
However, a single consolidated balance sheet was prepared for the metropolitan
and the district wings pending a review of the distribution of assets. Start-
ing with 1976-77, separate balance sheets will be prepared for these two wings
when the distribution of assets and liabilities has been completed. The
accounts are subject to independent commercial audit.
Past Financial Performance
21.       On formation, PTC took over from the Tamil Nadu State Transport
Department the assets of the public transport system operating in metropol-
itan Madras and the Chingleput District. As a result, it had a net worth of
Rs 5.62 crores represented by a State Government equity holding amounting to
Rs 3 crores and a State Government loan of Rs 2.62. Although PTC is expected
to be a financially viable semi-autonomous entity, in practice the Government
exercises a fair degree of control on its finances. All fares must be approved
by the Government and PTC is obliged to continue to operate unremunerative
routes, which are deemed appropriate by the Government. It also provides
concessions to students and physically handicapped persons, the cost of which
was estimated for 1974-75 at about Rs 2 crores.
22.       The high level of inflation experienced in India during 1974 and
1975 had a significant impact on the financial results for 1975 for the metro-
politan and district services when an overall deficit of Rs 0.9 crores was
incurred. Fuel costs increased by almost 50% and maintenance costs also in-
creased sharply. The Motor Vehicle Tax was also increased during the year 1/
and, as a result, the working expenses for the year showed an overall increase
of 38% over FY 1974. However, PTC was able to make substantial improvements
1/   In FY75, Motor Vehicle Taxes amounted to Rs 2.91 crores, an increase
of 66% over the amount for FY74. PTC has appealed against its lia-
bility for sales tax, which to the end of FY75 amounted to Rs 0.23
crores.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
in operational efficiency by rationalizing the route structure and improving
fleet utilization to a 90% level, such that during the year the overall cost
increase per effective bus-km was held at 15%. Fare increases for metropolitan
service implemented early in FY75 1/ increased revenue sufficiently to cover
these substantial cost increases, even though a small (7.5%) overall reduction
in traffic was experienced in the period immediately following the increase.
In addition, various incentive bonus schemes have improved daily collections
and reduced fuel consumption and over the period the operating ratio 2/ for
the metropolitan wing improved from 110 to 104.
23.       During the period through FY75, PTC incurred capital expenditures
amounting to Rs 7 crores, including Rs 5.23 crores on new buses, which were
financed mainly from loans from the State Government, the Government of India
and from the scheduled Banks, together with a small increase in the State
Government's equity holding. 3/ As a result, the capital structure of PTC
changed substantially with the debt equity ratio deteriorating from 47:53
in 1972 when PTC was formed to 85:15 at the end of FY75. 4/ Moreover, the
growth in financial reserves has been adversely affected by consistent an-
nual deficits which by FY75 had accumulated to Rs 2.55 crores as against
reserves amounting to Rs 0.48 crores. Throughout this period, the relation-
ship between current assets and current liabilities was unsatisfactory. At
the end of FY75, current assets 5/ (excluding inventories) amounted to 63%
of current liabilities.
24.       In September 1975, with the transfer of express bus service from
GTN Department of Transport to PTC and the establishment of three independent
wings within PTC to operate Metropolitan, District and Express services, as-
sets and liabilities were allocated between the Metropolitan and District
Wings (the balance sheet for the Express Wing was always maintained separate-
ly). The individual unaudited balance sheets as at March 31, 1976, illustra-
ting the allocations then made of assets and liabilities, are summarized in
Table 7. Of the total stock of buses owned by PTC at the beginning of FY76
1,277 or 77% had been retained by the Metropolitan Wing for operation of the
city services. On reorganization, the paid up capital of the composite PTC
1/   A flat increase of 5 paisa (Rs 0.05) on each fare stage.
2/   The operating ratio is the percentage of operating costs to operating
revenues. Operating costs include depreciation but exclude interest
charges and appropriations.
3/   In September 1974, the State Government decided that all district routes
operated over distances up to 200 km or less should be handed over to
the Corporation, and 108 buses were transferred to the Corporation at a
valuation of Rs 0.50 crores which was treated as an increase in the
paid-up share capital held by the State Government.
4/   During FY75, the borrowing powers of the Corporation were increased to
three times the paid-up share capital.
5/   About Rs 1.82 crores, or 30% of the current assets, are represented by
short-term investments and advances to staff.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
was retained in the Metropolitan Wing and the State Government loan of
Rs 3.86 crores was allocated Rs 1.54 crores to Metropolitan and Rs 2.32
crores to District Services. However, the entire accumulated deficit of
Rs 2.55 crores was allocated to city services and carried forward in the bal-
ance sheet of the Metropolitan Wing as an expedient pending a detailed review
by certified accountants. In FY75, about 151 unrenumerative routes were ope-
rated in the metropolitan area as against 106 in the district services. The
operating cost per bus was marginally higher for metropolitan services, but so
was fleet utilization. The net cost per passenger kilometer for metropolitan
and district services suggests an allocation of the accumulated deficit of 5:2
metropolitan: district.
25.       During FY76, the revenue of the undertaking as a whole increased by
13%, as against 21% for working expenses. The depreciation 1/ provision for
the year amounted to Rs 2.25 crores, and resulted in an operating deficit of
Rs 2.76 crores for the undertaking as a whole, of which Rs 1.76 crores was
borne by the Metropolitan Wing which, after adjusting for debt servicing ob-
ligations, suffered a net cash shortfall for the year amounting to Rs 1.03
crores 2/. This was financed by withholding accrued interest payments due on
Government loans and contributions to gratuity and pension funds. Current
assets (including advances to staff) only marginally exceeded current liabil-
ities (including bank overdraft) and, if inventories are excluded, quick
assets provided only 46% coverage of current liabilities.
26.       In view of the foregoing, urgent remedial action was seen to be
necessary to secure the solvency and improve the liquidity of the undertaking.
To this end, the Government responded by sanctioning an average 22% increase
in bus fares from March 1976. The Government has also agreed that in the
future sufficient revenues would be generated to achieve the overall financial
objectives of meeting the operating expenses including depreciation, satisfy-
ing debt servicing obligations and generating sufficient internal funds to
provide for adequate replacement of retired assets. In addition, GTN converted
the loans made by it and the unpaid interest due into a permanent debt on which
an interest of 12% will be payable but which will be waived during the period
to 1980. No adjustment has yet been made to the allocation of the accumulated
deficit, which presently exceeds the financial reserves and equity of the
Metropolitan Wing.
Future Prospects
27.       Forecasts of operating expenditures, depreciation and debt servicing
for the metropolitan wing are illustrated in Tables 5 and 6. Working expenses
per bus-km are projected to increase at 10% per year initially, reducing to 8%
in 1980-81, and amounting to 57% for the 5-year period. However, in view of
anticipated improvements in fleet utilization (para 10), the increased cost per
1/   Depreciation on buses is provided for at 30% on the reducing value
basis.
2/   Debt service costs amounted to Rs 1.08 crores and depreciation to
Rs 1.81 crores.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
passenger km during the period is expected to be on the order of 46%. To
support the projected operating costs and generate sufficient internal re-
sources to service external loans and allow for replacement of assets in
accordance with the financing plan (para 10), the PTC will need to increase
operating revenues such that the operating ratio for the metropolitan wing
improves from 103 estimated for FY77 to 95 for FY81. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the operating ratio will not exceed 99 for FY78, reducing
progressively to 95 by FY81. These targets would be achieved through a com-
bination of operational improvements, cost reductions, and fare increases as
necessary. As a result, PTC will be able to generate an increasing proportion
(neglible in FY78 to 54% in FY81) of the overall investment requirements of
the metropolitan wing. The financing plan for the next five years will be
as follows:
(Rs Crores)
FY1977   FY1978  FY1979  FY1980  FY1981
APPLICATION OF FUNDS                       ---Project Period-----
Capital Expenditures
IDA Project                    -       2.02    2.64    1.93       -
Other                         2.21    0.72    1.60    2.76   4.83
Increase in Cash and            0.57    0.72    0.96    1.00   0.18
Working Capital
Total Application               2.78    3.46    5.20    5.69   5.01
Sources of Funds
Internally Generated Funds    1.11    2.18    3.24    4.32   5.54
Add Sale of Assets              0.20    0.25    0.30    0.30   0.30
1.31    2.43    3.54    4.62   5.84
Less Debt Servicing             0.87    1.69    2.18    2.56   3.03
0.44    0.74    1.36    2.06   2.81
Loans - GTN/IDA                  -       2.02    2.64    1.93    -
Others                  2.34    0.70    1.20    1.70   2.20
Total Sources                   2.78    3.46    5.20    5.69   5.01
28.       The investment program envisages capital outlays in FY77 amounting
to Rs 2.21 crores. Loans amounting to Rs 1.44 crores have been negotiated
with the Industrial Development Bank of India, the State Bank of India and the



ANNEX 8
Page 11
Tamil Nadu Transport Development Finance Corporation Ltd. but residual borrow-
ing of about Rs 0.9 crore will be necessary 1/ and has been included in the
financing plan.
29.       The debt servicing cost in FY77 is estimated at Rs 0.87 crores
and sufficient trading revenues are expected to be available to meet this.
The level of internally generated funds available to finance capital outlays
thereafter should ensure satisfactory debt service coverage (see Table 6) and
cause the overall debt/equity ratio to improve significantly. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that from FY79 a debt service coverage ratio 2/ of
not less than 1.5 will be maintained.
G. Project Beneficiaries and Justification
30.       The main beneficiaries of the bus component of the project would
be bus passengers who represent a broad cross-section of the population of
Madras, most being between the 25th and 75th income percentiles. Bus trans-
portation is the main means of transport for office and factory workers,
students and a majority of housewives. Benefits for the different project
components are assessed as follows:
(a) bus replacement (representing 69.4% of the project
component) would result in a reduction in the opera-
ting cost of the buses and would increase service
availability and use of buses;
(b) provision of depots (representing 12% of the project
component) would permit location of some of the
buses to points closer to where they are needed, and
thus reduce dead kilometerage;
(c) bus terminals (representing 16.3% of the project com-
ponent) would result in reduced bus congestion and
improved passenger convenience at 8 major terminals; and
(d) passenger shelters (representing 2.3% of the project)
would improve passenger convenience.
1/   The terms of this financing which includes Rs 0.5 crores converted
from overdraft remain to be defined but have been assumed at 15% for
15 years.
2/   The debt service coverage ratio is the ratio of net revenue (before de-
preciation and interest charges) to debt servicing costs (including re-
payment of principal and payment of interest charges, etc.)



ANNEX 8
Page 12
Bus Replacement
31.       The replacement oL 285 overaged buses would result in direct cost
savings of about 13% to 55% over the different years of usage. Studies of
bus operating costs carried out by Pallavan's consultants indicate that the
variable operating cost of a bus averages about Rs 0.58/bus-km in the first
two years; Rs 0.86/bus-km in the next 6 years; Rs 1.05/bus-km in the next
4 years; and Rs 1.35/bus-km thereafter. Also, annual kilometerage per bus
declines from 70,000 kms in the first 8 years to 60,000 kms in the next 4
years and about 55,000 kms after 12 years. On this basis, the economic rate
of return of the bus replacement component is estimated to be 45%.
Depots
32.       The three depots to be provided under the project would accommodate
250 buses which are presently located in other depots more distant from where
the buses are deployed. This results in excessive dead kilometerage for these
buses, estimated at about 20% above the average for the system as a whole (5
kms/bus/day). The benefits of the depots are measured by the reduction in dead
kilometerage of 250 buses to the overall system average resulting in increased
availability. It is estimated that with the project these 250 buses would be
available for an additional one km of productive run, which can be directly
calculated into increased revenues. On this basis, the economic rate of the
depots is estimated to be 24%.
Terminals
33.       The 8 terminals to be-provided under the project would accommodate
some 200 buses which at present are parked on the streets causing considerable
congestion. The terminals would reduce congestion at these points and improve
passenger convenience. It is not possible to compute accurately these bene-
fits. However, assuming that the terminals would reduce congestion to the
extent that the productivity of the 200 buses using them is increased by 5%,
the economic rate of return of the terminals would be about 15%. In the
judgment of Pallavan's management, efficiency improvements of such a magni-
tude are likely to result from the terminals.
Passenger Shelters
34.       The beneficiaries of passenger shelters would be the bus passen-
gers, who would be afforded greater comfort and convenience. This may in
turn increase the demand for bus transportation. It is, however, not pos-
sible to quantify these benefits.
35.       The weighted average rate of return for the entire bus component
is estimated to be 39%. An increase in project cost by 20% would reduce the
average rate of return to 27%.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
MIADRAS URBAN DEVELOPI4ET PROJECT
Trip Distribution by Travel Mode (1970)
No. of Trips
Travel Mode                                                 Percent
Car                               84,065                       3.2
Motorcycle/Scooter                43,688                       1.7
Bus                            1,100,107                      41.5
Train                            303,632                     11.5
Slow MqIoving                      2,368                       0.1
Bicycles                         565,182                      21.3
Walking                          544,630                      20.7
2,643,672                    100.0
SOURCE: Traffic and Transportation Plan for Madras Metropolitan. Area,
Volume I, January 1974.
June 25, 1976



AMWEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
KADRAS TJRBAI% DVEELOPIESNT PRHJ0CT
Growth in the Metropolitan Bus Passenger Traffic and Bus Fleet
Passengers Carried    Average Annual No.of Buses   %  Growth
Year _Der day                        IOreaSe,         in Fleet re   W
5166J67              .85                    _               . A.           _
1 5`7 0/71            1.16                  8.0            N.A.             -
I 9'71/72             1.23                  6.0             915
1972/73               1.13                 -8.2           1 ,059          1 5.7
1 73/74              1.41                 24.7           1,082            2.1
17 4 /75             1,54                  9.2           1,172            8.3
1975/70               1.73                 12.3           1,340           14.3
Average Compounded Passenger Gro;uth Rate 1971/72-1975/76        9%
Average Compounded Bus Fleet Growth i971/72_1575/76          =   9%
SOURCE: Pallavan Transport Corporation
June 25, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
IMADRAS URBtM  DEVELORENT PROJECT
A.e DistriUiLor of Metvropolita  Bus Flee F
( as of April 1976)
Years                       Number of Buses
Completed     Leyland         Benz             Total
13            3             -                3
12           11             -               11
11           90             7               97
10          199             3              202
9          133             9              142
8          106            66              172
7           82            50              132
6          10            30              139
5           79            78              157
4           17            21               38
3           30             -               30
2           21             -               21
1          260             -              260
and less
TOTAL     1,1240          e6n            1,64o4
SOURCE: Pallavan Transport Corporat,ion
Ju-ne 25, 1,7



ANNEX 8
Table 4
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operational Performance Indicators of Pallavan Transport
1972      1973      1974       1975
Effective Fleet
(% of total fleet
in active status)             99         91        91         91
Fleet Availability
(% of active fleet
dispatched)                   96        96         98        96
Fleet Utilization
(% of operated km to
scheduled km)                 NA        93         94        92
Effective Ions per bus
per day                      158        177       186       192
Source: Operaticral and Performance Statistics, DTC.
June 1976.



INDTA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENTtPROJECT
Pallavan Transport Corporation Ltd.
operating Statement
rs Lakhs)
1972-Y3     1973-74      1974-75    __   1975-76---          1976-77      1977-78     1978-79      1979-80      1980-81
Actual                  Revised Estimate                                Projections
Metro District Total                        Metropolitan Wing
Average Fleet Strength (Vehicles)              1,334        1,387        1,528    1,341    375   1,716       1,439       1,502        1,557        1,614        1,677
Effective Kls                                    105.9         95.3        113.9     94.5   40.0   134.5       102.7       107.1        112.2        115.7        120.7
TRAFFIC REVENUE                                1,321        1,361        2,000    1,694    575   2,269       2,120        2,520       2,978        3,416        3,909
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages                            489          566         665       632    139      771  )
Fuel                                          254          248          356      348    115      463  )
Maintenance                                   337          355          545      443    178      621  )  2,044        2,345        2,704        3,043        3,428
Motor Vehicles Tax,eetc.                      194          176          291      210    149      359  )
Miscellaneous                                  49           63           90       81      56     137     __
Sub-Total - Working Expenses                1,323        1,408       1,947    1,714    637   2,351        2,044       2,345        2,704        3,043        3,428
Depreciation  A                               126           91          128      181      44     225        139         150          185          237          286
Sub-Total - Operating Expenses              1,449        1,499       2,075    1,895    681   2,576        2,183        2,495       2,889        3,280        3,714
OPERATING SURPLUS                           (128)        (138)         (75)    (201)  (106)   (307)        (63)           25          89          136          195
NON OPERATING REVENUE  A                           54          74           61       25       6      31         35           43           50           59          73
NET SURPLUS                                  (74)         (64)         (14)    (176)  (100)   (276)        (28)           68         139          195          268
INTEREST CHARGES                                  20            7           76       78      21      99         45           75          107          140          199
NET SURPLUS AFTER INTEREST                   (94)         (71)         (90)    (254)  (121)   (375)        (73)          (7)           32           55          69
Ratios
Working Ratio                                     100         103           97      102    111      104         96           93           91           89           88
Operating Ratio                                  110          110          104      112    118      114        103           99           97           96           95
Source:  Mission Estimate - October 197 6.
L    Calculated at 303 p.a. on the reducing balance for buses.
S / Includes interest on cash surpluses.



ANNTEx 8
MA  I,b T  A-                                     le ?7
rNgAIW2HpsnAIX 7111107 127> PPO577'
Pa laar [ransoort C- porat-on Ltd. - Petroclitan Wing
Ctaoterent v Sources and Apolications of Funds
Rs Lakhs)
SCURCES                                           '976-77   I977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81
Surplus befcre  onterest                          28)        '8         139        195        268
Depreciat cn                                     139        150         185        237        28p
Sale of Assets  /                                 20         25          3D         30         30
Increase in S-'olurnts -ayabe -   2                1          1'7        7         I8         20
Borrowrigs:
a)  IDBI                                                    -           -          -          -
b)  q01                                         10          -           -          -          -
c)  Repatriate 3ara                             12          -           -          -          -
a)  State Barnk of India                        13          -           -          _          -
e)  TINC                                        8c          -           -          -          -
f)  Debentures to Staff                         ]5          -           -          -          -
g)  GTN/IDA '3                                   -        272         384        363        220
h)  Other  64 88                                            -           -          -          -
Total Sources                              381        532        755        843         824
APPLICATIONS
Fixed Capital Expenditure - IDA                    -        202         264        193           -
t     "t          '       - non  Di           T22'         72        160         276        483
Increase in Accounts Receivable  /5               9           -5         17         10         20
Increase in Inventcores             2I                      22          29         32         38
Debt Service
Interest
On  7'IN/IDA Loans                          -          -_        34         55          61
On Other Loans                            45          64         73         85         13&
Retayment of Principal
Cn 17N/IDA Ioan                             -          --                   37           4
On Other Loars                             42         94         95         7o
Subtotal Debt Se A;/ice                     87        '          218        256         303
teo.anArt oDf ta^nk O,erA-af-                    37
Tot 3. Applications                              383         485        o88        775        842
C7ash Sur-,us                                     (2w e7                            68 oT
Cash a- 2eginning of Year'                        18          I6         83        130        198
Casb 3Sx Fnd o- lear                              '6          63        13         198        180
BAT U(
Debt Service C overage                          -.28       -9          1.9        1.69       1.83
oatone:    0-s9   Istinate - October _976
I/  er2  ` -         nuses estirate ad a' Rs 10. 10.
78  P-r' -A1    1,a ircrease in fleet oa  MetripAfaitan Wir!g
7    As   ci           interest over 15 years fl-year grace period) with equal installments  of princinal.
17  -cludes ccanve si,sa cn  'verdrafI
7   Predicat e  a <(.rding -  ir creased turnover and expandec vehicle fleet.



ANNEX 9
INDIA                                              Table 7
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pallavan Transport Corporation Ltd. - Comparative Balance Sheets as at March 31, 1973 Through 1981
'Rs Crores)
1973     1974      1975     1976      1976-    1977      1978      1979      1980     1981
4.1.76
-- Composite  P.T.C. ---------------- Metropolitan  Wing --------------------
ACT-JAL_                                      PROJECTION
JAxed Assets                                 6.23     7.45    11.42       9.43      9.47    10.99    13.26    16.95    21.31    25.91
Less Acr=rTilated Depreciation               1.27      2.18     3.46      4.48      4.36      5.75     7.25      9.10    11.47    14.33
Nef Fixed Assets in Operation                                                                             0- .g e 4.95  5.11  5.2  6.01    7.8 5  9_.8  11.58
Tnvesen+ s                                   c.o6      0.07     0.20      0.18      0.16      0.16     0.16      C.16      0.16     0.16
Wurrk in Pr^gress                            0.30      0.18      0.01     0.01      0.10      0.59      0.81     1.06      1.09      1.02
T-oal investments                      0.36     0.25      0.21      0.19      0.26     0.75      0.97      1.22     1.25      1.18
Pr-liminqrI, Expenses                        0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01      0.01    (0.01      0.01
'urrert Assets
Tnventcries                               1.78      2.14     3.10      2.44      2.22      2.46     2.73      3.02      3.34     3.70
Amounts Receivable                        o.64      0.55     1-03      1.36      0.87      1.01     1.16      1.33      1.51     1.71
loans and Advances                        3-32      2.10     1.82      1.14      0.97      0.97     0.97      0.97      0.97     0.97
Cash and Temnorary Deposits               o.06      0.12     0.11      0.15      0.18      0.16     0.63      1.30      1.98     1.80
5.80 4.91    r H           l 6 .o65.   4.24                        75.bS     TbO       T8
less Curren. L`abilities
Amounts  sayasDle                         5.75      4.63      3.37     4.21      2.63      2.79     2.96      3.13      3.31      3.51
Bank OverdraSt                            0.47      o.46     0.61      0.51      0.37      -        -         -         -        -
Pr-visions                                -         0.51     0.75      0.99      1.01    1.0o1     L.        1.01      L.01     1.01
Net Current Assets                          (0.42)   (0.69)    1.33    (o.62)       0.23      0.80      1.52     2.48      3.48      3.66
T^TAL ASSETS ANTD CUTLAY                     4.92      L.34      9.51     4.53      5.61      6.80      8.51    11.56    14.58    16.43
- 3ILI1FS AT ' -IRPIR-SES
Lcng_uerrm  _san
Secured                                   -         0.50     0.59      0.89      0.93      0.73     0.53      0.33      0.13     -
-,nsosured  /_                            2.64      2.63     7.49      4.90      6.47      8.59    10.57    13.50    16.17    17.46
Sub-'otal Debt Outstanding                   2.64      3.13      8.O's    5.79      7.40      9.32    11.10    13.83    16.30    17.46
E^mi_ty and Provisions
Share Capital - Issued,                   3.00      3.00     5.50      3.50      3.35     3.35      3.35      3.35     3-35      3-35
Subscribed and Paid Up
Cap-tal Reserve                           -         0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02
Tevelcpment Dund                          C.12      0.13      0.14     0-.5      0.12      0.12     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.12
Passenger Amenities Reserve               0.01      0.01     0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01      C.01      0.01     0.01      0.01
Employees Iqc^:sing and Amenities         0.09      0.10     0.10      0.11      0.09      0.09     0.09      0.09      0.09     0.09
Reserve
T'isoellanecus F-nds                      -         0.10      0.21     o.o4      o.o4      0.04     o.o4      0.o4     0.04      0.04
Operaton Surplus (l)eficit)               094)         (1.65)   (2.55)   (5.09)   (5.42)   (65)   (6.22)   (5.90)   (5.35)   (4.66)
,,_b-Total - Equiity and Provisiors          2.28      1.71      1.43    (1.26)   (1.79)   (2.52)   (2.59)   (2.27)   (1-70)   (1.03)
TOTAL LIA-3ILITIOS AlT SURPLUSES             L.92      4.84      9.51     4.53      5.61      6.80     8.51    11.56    14.58    16.43
Current Asset Ratio                       0.93      0.88      1.28     0-89      1.06     1.21      1.38      1.60      1.81     1.81
1li5ud Asset Ratio L                      0.65      o.49     o.63      o.46      0.30      o.56     0.70      D.87     1.03      0.99
1    rag5ital structure  revised with effect from 4.1.76
'77   tIncludes discourt tt IDBI Bills
-n_ludes l^ans and advances



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        The technical assistance component has five major elements:
(a) five advisers to MMDA for two years each; (b) short-term consultants'
services to MMDA to assist particularly in the establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation system; (c) the provision of consultant's services to Madras
Corporation to revise its accounting system; (d) training particularly of
MMDA and Madras Corporation staff; and (e) aerial photography and related
equipment and services. Estimates of man-months and costs (assuming man-
month rate of US$1,000 for local consultants and US$6,000 for foreign consul-
tants) are as follows:
Man-months
Local     Foreign      Total         Cost
(Rs Lakhs)
(a)  Advisers to MMDA             72         48          120          32.4
(b) Short-term consultants'
services to MMDA          60           6           66           8.6
(c) Consultants' services
to Madras Corporation   140           12          152          19.0
(d)  Training                      -          -            -           9.8
(e)  Aerial photography           -           -            -           2.2
Total                      272          66          338          72.0
2.        Terms of reference for the advisers to MNDA are in Section A (paras
3-17) and specifications for the aerial photography are in Section B (paras
18-22). Short-term consultants' services for monitoring and evaluation will
be obtained intermittently as the need arises and following the initial speci-
fication of the program by MMDA and its advisers. Consultants' services
required by the Madras Corporation will also be specified by MMDA and its
advisers in consultation with the Corporation and the UNDP/WHO consultants.
Training programs will be recommended to MMDA by its advisers.
A. Job Descriptions of Advisers to MMDA
Urban Planner
3.        Qualifications:  Broad professional training and at least five
years of experience in urban planning. Experience in leading teams of econ-
omists, planners, and engineers in preparing development plans. Training



ANNEX 9
Page 2
and/or experience in sociology/economics in addition to urban planning would
be desirable. Experience in the use of aerial surveys for planning and
design purposes would also be desirable.
4.        Duties:  The Urban Planner will advise and assist MMDA in carrying
out the attached work program, and particularly in:
(a) specifying growth strategies for the metropolitan area;
(b) review of infrastructure investment programs in all
major sectors (particularly housing, water supply
and transport) to determine their compatibility with
development plans;
(c) physical planning of sites and services and slum
improvement projects;
(d) monitoring and evaluation of the programs; and
(e) training of the staff of MMDA and other agencies.
5.        Duration:  Two years.
Urban Economist
6.        Qualifications:  Professional training and experience in urban and
regional economics. Should have at least five years of experience in project
programming and evaluation in an urban environment.
7.        Duties:  The Urban Economist will assist MMDA in carrying out the
attached work program, and particularly in:
(a) evaluating the effectiveness of the various sectoral
plans in achieving the development objectives;
(b) determining specific development objectives for the
key sectors;
(c)  a review of the employment sector and recommending
investment programs which can be integrated with
spatial growth plans;
(d) analysis of relationship among employment, housing and
transport;
(e) economic evaluation of the infrastructural investment
proposals; and
(f) training of the staff of NI*DA and other agencies.
8.        Duration:  Two years.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Financial Analyst (Captial Budgeting)
9.        Qualifications:  The adviser should have professional training and
experience in senior financial management position, preferably in the Govern-
ment or the public sector.
10.       Duties:  The adviser shall advise and assist MMDA in carrying out
the attached work program, and particularly in:
(a) setting up a programming and budgeting system covering
the major sectors in the metropolitan area;
(b) financial analysis of the investment programs of the
various government and private agencies involved in
these sectors;
(c) analysis of the investment needs as a whole for the
area and determine investment potentials based on
overall financial and organizational constraints;
(d) assessment of financial abilities of the local bodies
and others to implement the proposed program; and
(e) training of MMDA's counterpart staff in these activities.
11.       Duration:  Two years.
Financial Analyst (Municipal Finance)
12.       Qualifications:  The adviser should have professional competence
and at least five years experience in finance and economics, particularly
in municipal finance.
13.       Duties:  The adviser shall advise and assist MMDA in carrying out
the attached work program, particularly in:
(a) determining the ways and means of augmenting the
finances of the local bodies under its jurisdiction;
(b) assisting the local bodies in implementing the various
measures proposed and in improving financial management;
(c) developing investment programs for the key sectors in
view of constraints on resource mobilization (working
with the Financial Analyst (Capital Budgeting)); and;
(d) training of the staff of MNDA and local governments.
14.       Duration:  Two years.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Small Scale Business Expert
15.       Qualifications:  The adviser should have a minimum of five years
practical experience in the development and operation of small-scale and
cottage industries. Most of the time should have been spent in developing
countries. Experience with financial institutions would be desirable.
16.       Duties:  The adviser shall advise and assist  MDA in carrying out
the attached work program, and particularly in:
(a) determining employment generation requirements and
potentials in the MMDA;
(b) carrying out a study of the informal sector;
(c) developing suitable programs for employment creation,
in collaboration with Government institutions, banks,
voluntary groups and the private sector;
(d) designing and executing training programs for small-
scale entrepreneurs;
(e) evaluation and follow-up of the various programs; and
(f) training of the staff of MMDA and other agencies.
17.       Duration:  Two years.
B.  Specifications and Cost Estimates for Aerial Photography
18.       The area to be surveyed is estimated at 300 km.  The contact prints
of 9" x 9" will overlap by 60% longitudinally and 12% laterally. This accuracy
would be sufficient to permit the assembly of a semi-controlled mosaic.
19.       Contact prints in stereo couples will be prepared at a scale of
1:8,000 and enlargements of selected areas (slums) will be made on trans-
parent mylar base at,a scale of 1:1,000.
20.       The cost of flight film and film processing is estimated at US$3,000.
The cost of 3 sets of contact prints and 200 enlargements on mylar is estimated
at US$14,000.
21.       Additional equipment which would be purchased to make full use of
the photos:



ANNEX 9
Page 5
US$
2 mirror stereoscopes             300
3 pocket stereoscopes             100
2 planimeters                     400
Sepia and blue print paper        500
File equipment for storage
of contact prints and mylar
enlargements                      500
1,800
22.       Total cost:  about US$20,000 (Rs 180,000).



ANNEX 10
INDIA
MADRAS OR    K DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Key Implerenttor Actions
196                                                                            78__1A7~J       
Resmonsibility              O           N    D                     -A 3  MT 
A. |      itio`
1.  Establish new depnrtmeOts in
MEEK and appoint heads                             MA__
2. eorit advisers to MDA                          MMDP_
3.  Prepare ndministrattve reg-lattion
for the refPolP04  funds                    M.)A/CTfHB/TKSCB                               _    _ _  _  __
4.  Review r-ad  eniotena-ce organiza-
tion in lPE                                       P C______
5.  Eatablish Fi.nanial Management Pnit
inl                                               MC M      
6.  Establish TraffiC Engi-nering Cell
it AC MCF
7.  Finie oeoanaat oni for eDec-oOn
of roads component                                DRE_
E. Establish Traffic Engineerir,g Ce'l
in DHRW                                           EHW_
9.  Establish Traffic Maoogeet Cell
is Folio ce  eparoasOt                            Poli^e                                     __                     _    _i
.0.  Fina_ize orgemizoti-s for f xcos: icc
of slum, imoprovemenc coopoasso                   TNSEE
ll.  Fina'ize orga izat-or "or imolemen-
tatitn  ef  aternal d child health
coapon-t                                          DSW
-' 9        Finaltie crganseaticn Por execution
cf sites and ser-ices                            T10H0
0. policY
.  Prepare eoaThS-on reporT or the
iococd- tijn of staggered  hor  Cours              TCC
uIndertake income s-rvey for  resettle-
mer.t te-a.etS                              T-NSCB/I.2.'QA                                                                                                                              _   t| |||6j30/78
A.  Prepare   slums aproveSS- g-rogran          MVMA/TNECSCP/TP HB
C. Ti,an-e
l.   Prepare erpenditure and reveuei
pro-estionos fCo   C                              MC
2.  ReoIantee accots of ME                            MC
3.  Separote acecuts Pop  ater supply                Mc
ansd sewerage                                     M                                                                                                                              /17
4.  Enoore -hat -atef zUoply and  ewerage                                                                                                                                            3/31 '79
revenuso  ore s-ffioteat t  cover cosets          PC
5.  R-iew  Kionetna   rojecotton foe PTCC P
for '978 and 1970                                 FTC
3.  xecatiton  of Physical  Project Cozponnns
l.  Complete en-i-eeriCg desiMAs of iQ           PEPPAPTOOCV
slums                                       5.tA,/T-qSCP                                                                    |                     |     |               i
2.  Coplete tender dosuents for T.ase l              FTC
f bh s  hashsi  proo-oemeot (ICB)
3.  Tenderirg ard cont-act award of (2)               PIC
4.   MDP/dHP ooasutmno0  review of w-r
upply conpopeno (immediate works
Program)                                          TWeAD



ANNEX 11
INDIA
MADRAS U.BAN DEVELOPMENT P8LOEECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                Disbursements During                  Cumulative Disbursements
Year and                         Quarter                           at End of Quarter
Quarter                         (US$'000)                              (US$T000)
FY19778
December 31, 1977                     50                                      50
March 31, 1978                       150                                     200
June 30, 1978                        300                                     500
FY1979
September 30, 1978                   800                                  1,300
Decernber 31, 1978                 1,200                                   2,500
Marca 31, 1979                     2,000                                  4,500
June 30, 1979                      3,000                                  7,500
FY1980
September 30, 1979                 2,000                                  9,500
December 31, 1979                  2,500                                 12,000
March 31, 1980                     3,000                                 15,000
June 30, 1980                      3,000                                 18, 000
T-- 981
September 30, 1980                 2,200                                 20,200
December 31, 1980                  2,200                                 22,400
Tarchl 31, 1981                      800                                  23,200
June 30, 1981                        800                                 2L,000
Source: Mission Estimate, November 9, 1976.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Madras Corporation: Organization and Finance
Organization
1.        The Mladras Corporation is constituted as an autonomous local govern-
ment under the Madras City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 and is governed
by a council of 120 elected representatives who in turn elect a Mayor from
among their number. However, GTN maintains considerable control over the
administration and finances of the corporation. The Commissioner, who is
appointed by GTN, is the executive head of the Corporation. GTN approval is
required for the Corporation's budgets, revisions in tax levies and to its
borrowings, for which GTN is the major source. In 1974, the Council was dis-
solved and replaced by a Special Officer, also appointed by GTN 1/.
2.        The primary functions of the Corporation are to develop and main-
tain infrastructure facilities and services including roads, water supply and
drainage, street lighting, conservancy, medical facilities, elementary edu-
cation and parks and playgrounds. In addition, it is also responsible for
licensing buildings and industries, enforcing building construction control,
and collection of local taxes. These services are administered centrally
through nine functional and five support departments (Chart 5). In addition,
there are two District Organizations (North and South), each headed by an
Assistant Commissioner responsible for all conservancy and maintenance activ-
ities in their respective areas. The Corporation employs about 5,000 per-
manent establishment staff and another 10,000-15,000 staff are employed in
the various services provided by the Corporation. About 50% of total annual
expenditures are for salaries and wages.
3.        Some functions are supplemented by the various departments of GTN.
The major city roads which are designated as state or national highways are
constructed and maintained by the Highways and Rural Works Department of GTN;
and major water supply and sewerage schemes are designed and constructed by
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board and maintained by the Corporation.
1/   The Madras City Municipal Corporation Act (1919) provides the Government
with the power to dissolve the Council under extraordinary circumstances.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Finances
4.        The Corporation is statutorily required to raised sufficient reve-
nues to meet the current costs of operation and maintenance including debt
servicing costs and, in addition, show a minimum balance of Rs 1.5 lakh on
the General Revenue Account. The Corporation has found it impossible until
recently to comply with the requirement. Tables 1 and 2 show a breakdown
of revenues and expenditures for the Corporation from 1971/72 to 1975/76 and
the budgeted amounts for 1976/77.
5.        The Corporation obtains its revenues from a variety of taxes, the
most important being property taxes, which are intended to finance general
administration, water supply, sewerage, drainage, lighting and elementary
education services, and the entertainment tax. The Corporation also levies
fees and charges on a number of commercial enterprises, including land develop-
ment schemes and markets, etc, and receives grants and subsidies from the
government for education, health and family planning services and for certain
special programs. Capital expenditures are financed by loans from GTN, the
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and, to a limited extent, financial institu-
tions.
6.        Self-generated revenues of the Corporation have increased in cur-
rent terms in the last five years at an average annual rate of 12 percent,
but have declined by 4-5 percent per annum in real per capita terms. Pro-
perty tax revenues, which represent over 50% of self-generated revenues, have
begun to improve since 1974 after a period of stagnation. However, in real
per capita terms they have declined by 2-3 percent per annum. This has
resulted in a decline in the general level of services in the city.
7.        Up to 1974/75 the Corporation consistently incurred annual deficits
on its current accounts, mainly as a result of the deficits in water supply,
sewerage, drainage and education services. The water supply and drainage taxes
presently finance only 75% of service costs, and education revenues including
the Government subsidy finance only 70% of service costs. The total deficit
budgeted in 1976/77 for water supply, drainage and education services amounts
to Rs 2.12 crores (US$2.36 million) as against Rs 1.20 crores (US$1.33 million)
in 1975176. As a result, expenditures on other services such as road main-
tenance, public health and conservancy services have decreased in real terms.
8.        The proposed project would impose an additional burden on the
Corporation of almost Rs 50 lakhs (US$0.6 million) per year in increased debt
charges for the roads component, increased maintenance costs arising from
the site and services and slum improvement projects, and improved roads and
footpath maintenance 1/. In addition, the expected population increase
(3.5% per annum) would require an expansion of services.
1/   Debt charges resulting from the water and sewerage component will be
covered from increased charges for these services.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        Financial administration and fiscal management in Madras Corpora-
tion have been the subject of continuing GTN concern. In 1970, con-
sultants (IBCON Pvt Ltd) were appointed to examine the tax assessment and
collection procedures and in 1971, a committee comprised of senior officials
was appointed by GTN to study ways to increase the Corporation's finances.
The Committee proposed several measures, the most important of which were
the restructuring of the property taxes and establishment of proper financial
planning mechanisms in the Corporation. The Committee was severely critical
of the outdated accounting system being maintained, the defective budgetary
control being executed and the widespread diversion to current service expen-
ditures of Government loans and grants sanctioned for capital works. The
Committee recommended that consultants be appointed to streamline and simplify
the accounting system as a whole and the revenue accounting procedures in
particular, that budgets should be submitted for GTN approval, and that a
financial advisor at the grade of Deputy Secretary should be appointed by
the Corporation and charged with the responsibility for financial planning
and control.
Property Taxes
10.       Since property taxes account for over 50% of the revenues of the
Corporation, major increases in revenues would need to be derived from this
source. Property tax rates are assessed as a percentage of the annual
rental value of land and buildings. The existing tax rate varies from 15-
1/2% for annual rental value under Rs 500, to the statutory maximum of 30%
for properties with annual rental value of over Rs 7,000 (see Table 3). Tax
revenues are notionally apportioned for water supply, drainage, lighting and
general purposes. An additional 4-5% is collected as education tax. Pro-
perty tax collections are generally satisfactory. About 80% of current
assessments and about 45% of arrears are collected.
11.       The main problem with the property tax system has been the under-
assessment of properties. The present assessment procedures leave the
assessment of properties to the judgement of the assessors, where rental
receipts are not available or where the property is occupied by the owner.
Even where rental receipts are available, they may not represent the cur-
rent rental value of the property and assessment of such property is also
left to the judgement of the assessor. This method of assessment has proved
to be unsatisfactory, particularly because the assessors are not trained
valuers but are merely drawn from the administrative and clerical staff of
the Corporation, and the system affords scope for malpractice and leads to a
large number of appeals against assessment. The GTN appointed Committee
instituted a sample survey which indicated that revenue growth has been lower
than growth in property values and it recommended that a Central Valuation
Authority be established and a Chief Valuation Officer made responsible
for the revision of the assessment books. The IBCON consultant's report
of 1970 recommended a more systematic procedure for assessment based on
floor area, location and type of property as a means of removing a large



ANNEX 12
Page 4
measure of discretion in the assessment. However, the Committee recommended
that this particular proposal not be implemented and no action has been taken
to date 1/.
12.       Other measures presently under consideration by GTN include an
increase in the rate of property taxes as recommended by the High Powered
Committee and a revision in the constitution and powers of the Taxation
Appeals Committee of the Corporation in order to expedite the appeal pro-
cedure. These measures would no doubt be useful in achieving the overall
financial target for the Corporation.
Financial Manacement
13.       The Corporation follows the traditional practice of local bodies
of maintaining its accounts on a cash basis. The budget is the sole means
of financial control. This does not permit an accurate evaluation of the
real costs of the various services, nor does it promote cost effectiveness by
spending departments. There are no planned investment targets or incentives
to improve operational efficiency.  Lack of financial planning has often
resulted in unrealistic projections of revenues which have not been achieved
but which have encouraged growth in expenditures. As a result, the Corpora-
tion has consistently incurred deficits on current account and financed
these from capital loans and grants. This irregular practice has been cri-
ticized by the Accountant General as long ago as 1969 and his criticism has
been endorsed by the Public Accounts Committee.
14,       A major feature of the Corporation's finances is its present debt
servicing obligation. The Corporation appears to give little consideration
to its ability to service loans taken to finance capital outlays in spite
of the considerable burden that debt servicing costs have recently assumed.
Debt burden of the Corporation as a result has varied considerably in
different years and it accounted for 28% and 23% respectively of all
self-generated revenues in 1973/74 and 1974/75. Indeed, the Corporation
has not always been able to meet its debt servicing obligations.
15.       The foregoing indicates the urgent need for the Corporation to
establish an effective system of budgeting and financing control. The
present Account Department needs to be strengthened and up-graded into a
Financial Management Department. The Government has recently appointed a
financial consultant to look into the overall finances of the Corporation
and he will assist in the setting up of the Financial Management Department.
1/   IDA recommended against a similar system in Calcutta in favor of
a capital valuation system.



ANE  1 2
TableI
INDIA
MPDRS URBAN IEVE.3NT PROJECT
Revenues of Madras Corporation (1971/72-1976/77)
(Rs lakhs)
1971/7      1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76    1976/77-
A.  TAX REVENUE
1.  Property Tax        654          65d        85b        981        1,079      1,130
of which:
General Tax        (299          287        376        428          471        493)
Water Tax          ( 34           35         47         54           59          62)
Drainage Tax       (111          134        171        196          216         226)
Lighting Tax       ( 95           85        109        125         137         144)
2.  Education Tax      (115          117        155        178         l16          205)
3. Entertainment Tax  212            235        235        253          250         260
4. Duty on Transfer
of Property         52           54         52        80            80         81
5.  Others               914         115         99        118          156         199
Total Tax Revenue    11012         19062      1,244      1,432        1,565      1,670
B.  NONV-TAX REVENUE
1.  License Fee          23           21         26         27           40          4o
2. Excess Water
Charges           46           51         52         46          37          60
3. Rents on Land
& Buildings          9            7          9          9            9           9
4.  Revenue from
Enterprises       29           45         46         47           45          52
5.  Other               153          178        198       150           277         271
Total Non-Tax Revenue  260           302        331        279         1408         432
C.  GOVERNMENT GRANTS
1.  Education                         21         25         22           40          45
2. Compensation for
Loss of Tolls                     4          4          4            4           4
3. Health & Family
Planning Programs                   2         28/3        -           20          173/
4. Other                               -         30 -        -          IO0        215-
2/
Total Govt. Grants       20-          27         87         26          164         281
TOTAL CURRENT
REVENUES        1,292        1,391      _1,772, 1                          2,383
17/ Budgeted amounts
2/ Breakdown not available. Total amount estimated.
3/  SpcC4 al grarts wrsm State   verunwt t  co,e*rste for pay sicle revision.
SOURCE: Madras Corporation



ANNEX 12
Table 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Revenue and Capital Expenditures of Madras Corporation
(1971-72 - 1976/77)
(in lakhs of Rs)
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/771/
A.  REVENUE EXPENDITURES
Management                               140        176     135        161         175
Education                                212        242     255        307         349
Roads & Bridge Maint.                    236        172     126        198         212
Public Health &
Conservancy                              412        455     476        601         638
Lighting                                 148        106     108        116         133
Water Supply                              89        101     105        132         158
Drainage                                 102        128     130        166         180
Renumerative Enterprises                  31         21      26         31          40
Debt Service:                            160       438      388        302         375
General Purposes                       (86)     (230)   (245)       (222)       (236)
Lighting                               (14)     ( 43)   ( 18)       ( 17)       ( 16)
Water Supply                           (49)      ( 79)   ( 78)      ( 53)       ( 77)
Drainage                               (11)      ( 86)   ( 47)      ( 10)       ( 46)
Other Expenses                            80         40      99        ill         113
2/
Total Revenue Expenditure:      1,496      1 610      1,879   1 848      2J25        2_X
B.  CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Public Health                  40         16         20      37         67         108
Roads & Bridges               151        140        133      68        208         256
Lighting                       52         79         36      17         44          45
Water Supply &
Drainage                      574         98        122     107        361         375
Renumerative Enterprises        3          5          9       1         32         183
Town Planning                   3          2          2        2        -           -
Others                        103         36          2      10         33          39
Total Capital Expenditures        926        376        324      241       746       1,011
C. CURRENT ACCOUNT 3/
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)
of which:
Water Supply &
Drainage                 N.A.       ( 31)     ( 27)   ( 44)       ( 49)       (113)
Education                N.A,       ( 74)     ( 62)   ( 55)       ( 71)       ( 99)
Debt Service as % of
Selg-generated
Revenues                  N.A.        11.7      27.8    22.7        15.3        17.8
1/ Budget amounts.
2/ Breakdown not available.
3/ Total revenues minus total revenue expenditures.
SOURCE: Madras Corporation



ANNEX 1 2
Table 3
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Madras Corporation: Existing Rates of Taxation
Annual value of             Tax Rate for       Water and Drain-
buildings & lands              general            age tax           Lighting tax    Total
purposes           rate                   rate        Rate
1.  Rs 500 and below          %% of Annual   7% of which 1a                            15i
value  shall be in respect
of Water Tax and
5$ Drainage Tax
2.  Over Rs 500 and           10I    Do              Do.                 Do.           21%
upto and inclusive
of Rs. 1 ,00'
3.  Over Rs. 1,000 and         12% Do                Do.                 Do.            22 
upto and inclusive
of Rs. 5,00
4. Over Rs. 5,000 and          14h  Do.              Do.                 Do.           25%
upto and incluaive
of Rs. 7,000
5.  Over Rs. 7,000             195o; Do.             Do.                 Do.           30%
Education tax under Section 34 of the Madras Elementary Education Act is levied
at 4% on A.V. of Rs. 500 and below, at 4L9    on A.V. of above Rs. 500 upto and inclusive
of Rs. 1,000 and at 5% on A.V. of above Rs. 1,000.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Madras Metropolitan Development Authority: Objectives, Work
Program, Organization and Staffing
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        During its relatively brief period of existence, the Madras
Metropolitan Development Authority (MMDA) has established itself as a
strong organization with competent staff. It has been charged with the
responsibility of preparing development plans for the Madras Metropolitan
Area (MMA). To date the main emphasis of MMDA has been on land-use planning
and development of new areas. It is now, however, extending its activities
from land-use planning to comprehensive urban development planning for
the MMA, including social and economic as well as physical planning. With
the preparation of the Madras Urban Development Project covering several
different sectors, MMDA has already begun to focus on the broader problems
of urban development. In order to complete this shift and to make the MMDA
a true development planning authority, it is necessary to:
(a) define its development objectives more clearly;
(b) prepare and execute a specific work program to
achieve the objectives;
(c) reorganize and strengthen its staff; and
(d) provide it with the necessary technical assistance.
2.        This note outlines a work program for the MMDA through March 31,
1979, indicating the key issues on which efforts will be initially concen-
trated and the principal staff required to carry out the work. Based on
this outline, M1DA will develop more detailed plans for specific aspects of
the work.
II. OBJECTIVES
3.        In line with National and State goals, the development objectives
of MMA can be broadly stated as to gairnfully employ and adequately service
its rapidly growing population over thie long-term, with particular attention
given to the poorer segments of the population.  The objective of MMDA is to



ANNEX 13
Page 2
prepare economic, social and spatial development plans for the metropolitan
area aimed at achieving the development objectives, keeping in consideration
the overall resource mobilization constraints.
4.        The development plans prepared by MMDA will primarily focus on pub-
lic investments in the key sectors, particularly employment, housing, water
supply and sewerage, transport and social services. However, the plans will
be complementary to the activities of the private and non-governmental insti-
tutions.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
5.        In order to meet the objectives defined above, MMDA will need to
shift its present orientation and emphasis and to develop the necessary exper-
tise.  It is expected that this would be done over a period of about two years,
at the end of which MMDA would have completed a comprehensive development pro-
gram for the MMA to be regularly updated thereafter and the implementation of
which would be continuously monitored and evaluated. As a starting point,
MMDA will monitor the implementation and achievement of the Madras Urban De-
velopment Project. Concurrently, it will monitor the overall government pro-
grams in the key sectors and evaluate their effectiveness in meeting the de-
velopment objectives. Future sectoral investment proposals will be made on
the basis of this review. Following this approach, the work program of MMDA
over the next two years (1977/78 and 1978/79) will consist of:
(a) monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of
the Madras Urban Development Project;
(b) review of the existing investment programs and policies
in the key sectors to determine their appropriateness
and financial implications for the State Government and
the various local bodies;
(c) review of local government finances in the MMA and
advice and assistance in augmenting financial resources;
(d) prepare a development program for MMA including a capital budget
for the next five years and an indicative program for the
next ten years; as part of the preparation, MMDA would also:
(i) develop financial implications of the proposed pro-
gram for the State Government and the various local
bodies and make further proposals for generating
the requisite resources;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(ii) discuss the various proposals with the State Govern-
ment and the concerned local governments and obtain
their approval; and
(e)  continue to work on land-use planning for the MMA.
6.        In carrying out its work program, MMDA will rely on existing sources
of information, including census reports, government and privately sponsored
studies and research and undertake selected surveys where necessary to supple-
ment data available. It will work closely with the concerned sectoral agency
in carrying out such surveys. Details of the individual items of work and
their expected times of completion are given below and also shown in a chart
in Appendix 1.
Monitoring and Evaluation
7.        Monitoring and evaluation of different sectoral programs will be
an important function of MMDA. The results of evaluation will be useful for
MMDA in revising/updating the development priorities of the MMA and in pre-
paring future programs. To initiate this process, MD4A has been assigned
the responsibility of monitoring the Madras Urban Development Project. Spe-
cific activities to be undertaken are:
(a) develop performance indicators for each individual component
of the project to assess the impact of the project (March
1977);
(b) develop a system of project implementation reporting by
each of the executing-agencies (April 1977);
(c) prepare quarterly progress reports giving details of the
project elements sanctioned, executed, expenditures and
progress made in achieving the specified performance
targets (quarterly); and
(d) prepare an evaluation report on the project at the end of
each fiscal year assessing the success of the project in
meeting its objectives and proposing any changes necessary
in the strategy (April 1978 and annually thereafter).
Review of Existing Sectoral Programs
8.        A review of the existing sectoral programs and policies will be
carried out in order to: (a) assess the overall flow of government and
private funds in the metropolitan area; (b) assess the benefits of the
programs and whether the benefits derived are consistent with the develop-
ment objectives; and (c) assess any changes in policy which could promote
sectoral objectives. Details of the review to be carried out for indivi-
dual sectors are given below.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
9.        Employment.  Creation of productive jobs for the growing population
of the TMMA will continue to be a major concern.  It is recognized that tra-
ditionally much of the emphasis in this area has been placed on employment
creation in the formal sector. But it is clear that in Madras the informal
sector will continue to play a significant role in absorbing a substantial
number of entrants to the labor force. In its review, MMDA will pay parti-
cular attention to ways of stimulating activity in this sector. Specific
aspects of the work will include:
(a) a review of investments by the various government agencies
for industrial development giving the sources of funds,
and an assessment of, inter alia, employment created,
investments per job, types of skills required and capital-
intensity of the industries included in the program
(December 1977);
(b) private investments in industry and commerce and an
assessment of the type and number of jobs created (De-
cember 1977);
(c) an in-depth study of the economic activity in the informal
sector and recommendations for training and financial and
technical assistance which would increase incomes and
stimulate greater employment (May 1978); and
(d) a review of the relationship between location of different
industries and commercial activities with other types of
activities to determine the appropriateness of the existing
land-use regulations and to recommend appropriate modifica-
tions, including proposals for better coordination between
the location of industrial and residential development
(August 1978).
10.       Housing.  The principal concerns in the housing sector are:  (i) to
ensure that the total housing stock in the metropolitan area is increasing at
a rate at least commensurate with the population increase; (ii) the housing
being provided is affordable by the various income groups, particularly by
the low-income groups, and (iii) government policies and programs are con-
sistent with the above considerations. Specific tasks to be undertaken by
MMDA are:
(a) a review of public and private investments in housing
to ascertain the sources of funds, types of housing
stock generated, the extent to which the needs of spe-
cific income groups are not being satisfied, and the
implications of the findings for the growth of slums
and for government finances (September 1977);



ANNEX 13
Page 5
(b) aerial survey of all slum areas and prepare a detailed
program for slum improvement (by June 30, 1978) incor-
porating the following considerations (see Appendix 2):
(i) all slums in the MMA would be improved by l4arch 31,
1985.
(ii) attention will be given to the need to provide
housing sites and services including open plots
affordable by the lowest income groups to reduce
the growth of slums;
(iii) most slums (possibly about 80%) will be improved
and the inhabitants given long-term security of
tenure; and
(iv) certain slums which are not viable and/or are
located on land required for other high priority
purposes would be cleared and the inhabitants re-
settled, but only after a detailed socio-economic
cost-benefit analysis has been carried out for
each clearance scheme, indicating that clearance
is justified.
(c)  review of government policies (e.g. rent control, taxation,
financing) affecting private investments in housing and
recommend appropriate changes to encourage private invest-
ments to be channelled into low-income housing (December
1977); and
(d)  an analysis of the existing housing patterns in relation
to employment opportunities and transport and an assessment
of the existing land-use and building regulations to see
whether they are consistent with the locational require-
ments of different income groups (December 1977).
11.       Water Supply and Sewerage.  A detailed study of the water supply
and sewerage sector is presently under way with assistance from UNDP/WHO.
This study is expected to provide an analysis of the investment requirements
in the sector. MMDA's role in this area will be primarily to coordinate with
the UNDP/WHO study team to provide them with information on the expected
physical developments in the metropolitan area and in directing attention to
the needs of the low-income groups. The investment proposals and financial
and administrative recommendations originating from the study will be compiled
by M4A (by December 1977) in order to determine their implication for the
local government finance.
12.       Transport.  Extensive studies have been carried out within the past
five years on the transport and traffic situation in the metropolitan area.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
These studies provide a data base on traffic patterns in the region, although
the need for investments in transport infrastructure appears to have been over-
stated. The studies also reveal that pedestrians, bicyclists and bus passen-
gers account for the major portion of the transport demand in the area. MMDA
will focus particular attention on these modes of transport in devising future
investment programs. Specific work to be undertaken will include:
(a) a review of public investments in the various modes of
transport and an assessment of their impact on the trans-
port requirements of the various income segments of the
population (June 1977);
(b) a brief survey of the transport needs of the different
income groups and its effect on their locational patterns
and travel costs (money and time) (December 1977); and
(c) based on findings under (a) and (b) and the data of the
transport studies (updated as necessary) and in collab-
oration with Madras Corporation and Department of Highways
and Rural Works, an assessment of the future (5-10 years)
role of the various modes of transport (December 1977).
13.       Social Support Programs.  A number of government programs exist in
the fields of maternal and child health, nutrition, public health, education
and vocational training. The main concern of the MMDA in these areas would
be to ensure that the programs are integrated into community development pro-
jects and that they are reaching the target population. It would also define
the proper role of the different agencies including the voluntary agencies
and community participation in program development. Specific activities to
be undertaken are:
(a) a review of the existing sources of funding for the
various programs and an assessment of their target
populations, including an assessment of the role of
the voluntary agencies and private foundations (October
1977); and
(b) an evaluation of the present coordination between the
social support programs and other community development
programs ahd recommendations for future administrative
arrangements (December 1977).
Local Government Finances
14.       The ability of the local governments to generate adequate resources
is a key constraint in meeting the development objective. It is necessary to
(i) reduce operating costs and improve standards of service, and (ii) develop
an expanding revenue base for local government services in the MMA. MMDA
would in parallel with its efforts in developing a future investment program,



ANNEX 13
Page 7
and in conjunction with the studies being undertaken as part of the UNDP/WHO
study of water supply and sewerage finances in the MMA, carry out:
(a) a review of present local government revenues and ex-
penditures (December 1977);
(b) a study of the alternative sources of revenue available -
particularly the property taxes and various direct charges
for services provided - and recommend to the State Govern-
ment and local governments ways in which the revenue base
may be enhanced, together with revenue projections (December
1977);
(c) make projections of expenditures, including expenditures
required to service an increase in the population as deter-
mined from the growth trends for each local government area;
debt service on the existing and anticipated debt; and ex-
penditures on replacement (December 1977); and
(d) provide advice and assistance to the State Government and the
local governments for implementing accepted recommendations
to augment their resources (continuously after January 1978).
15.       For the city of Madras, activities (b) and (c), except for water
supply and sewerage finances, would largely be carried out by Madras Corpora-
tion but MMDA would advise and assist as necessary and utilize the results in
its overall review of local government finance in the MMA.
Area Development Plans
16.       Under the provisions of the Town and Country Planning Act the MMDA
has to prepare a master plan and follow it up with area development plans
for the constituent units. The master plan has already been notified. This
plan would require it to be regularly updated. Area development plans for
97 planning units within the city and 60 planning units outside it is present-
ly being carried out and will be continued over the next three years.
Formulation of Future Development Programs
17.       On the basis of the preceding activities, MMDA will propose future
development programs including capital budgets. The concerned sectoral agen-
cies will continue to be responsible for preparing the detailed proposals.
The MMDA would offer guidelines to the agencies and will review all proposals
for their economic and financial viability and for their consistency with the
development objectives. Necessary steps to be taken by the State Government
agencies and the individual local governments to implement the programs will
be clearly defined and proposed.



ANNEX 13
Page 8
18.       The following specific activities would be required to prepare the
investment program (most activities would overlap substantially with much
iteration required, and the intermediate completion dates are only indicative):
(a) MMDA to translate the broad development objectives into
specific sectoral objectives and guidelines based on its
evaluation of the present policies and investment programs
and obtain Government approval (December 1977);
(b) the individual agencies to prepare programs on the basis of
the development guidelines and submit to MMDA (June 1978);
(c) MMDA to review the programs and propose to the Government
investment packages which fulfill the established objectives,
within the resource constraints (October 1978); and
(d) obtain Government approval and initiate preparatory work for
implementation (January 1979).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
19.       A proposed organization to implement the above work program is out-
lined in Chart 4. The present area development divisions would be conso-
lidated into one Area Development Plans Department. Three new departments
would be established for development planning, capital programming and finan-
cial management, and community-development programs. A separate unit will
be responsible for routine project monitoring and evaluation.
20.       The Development Planning Department will further define the devel-
opment objectives for the area and translate these into individual sectoral
objectives. It will evaluate government policies and investment programs in
each of the key sectors to determine appropriate changes and also have over-
all responsibility for proposing future development programs. The Capital
Programming and Financial Management Department will compile government and
private investment activities in the various sectors and determine existing
and potential sources of funds for these programs, and also propose the
capital budgets for the development programs. It will update this inform-
ation regularly. It will review the finances of the local governments in
the metropolitan area and of the government departments' activities in the
selected sectors. It will make the projections of revenues and expenditures
and advise and assist in augmenting revenues and in improving financial man-
agement in the MMA. The Community Development Programs Department will be
responsible for all work related to employment generation and social services,
and also identify and coordinate the preparation of comprehensive sites and
services and slum improvement projects. The Area Development Plans Department
will continue its present activities in land-use planning and area development
and will assist the Development Planning Department in identifying spatial
growth strategies for the metropolitan area.



ANNEX 13
Page 9
21.       The work of the technical departments will be supervised by a
Chief Urban Planner. The present staff from the various Area Development
Departments will be consolidated into one single department and strengthened
as necessary in view of the existing commitments of MMDA for land-use plan-
ning. In addition, the following professional staff has been identified as
required for the principal new departments:
Development Planning
1 - Senior Urban Planner (Head)
3 - Urban Economists
2 - Urban Planners
2 - Civil Engineers
2 - Municipal Engineers
I - Transportation Planner
Capital Programming and Financial Management
I - Senior Public Administrator (Head)
2 - Public Finance Specialists
3 - Financial Analysts
Community Development Programs
I - Senior Industry Specialist (Head)
2 - Small-scale Industry Specialists
1 - Sociologist
1 - Public Health Specialist
1 - Economist
1 - Planner
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1 - Economist/Planner (Head)
2 - Engineers
2 - Financial Analysts
2 - Accounts Officers
22.       In addition, the following key experts (see Annex 9 for job
descriptions) will be retained to assist MMDA for two years on a contract
basis to provide training to its staff and to assist in carrying out the
work program:
(a) Urban Development Planner;
(b) Urban Economist;
(c) Financial Analyst - Capital Programming;
(d) Financial Analyst - Municipal Finance; and
(e) Small-scale Business Expert.



ANNiEX 1 3
Appendiix I
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
Schedule of Activities
-19764        -------------_1977--------------1978 9--     -- t
1 (10         1  4           1  0        1  4/       1  0           1  4
Ref   Activity
Monitoring and Evaluation
7a    Develop monitoring indicators                           -
7b    Develop project reporting system
7c/d Prepare quarterly progress reports and
annual evaluation reports
Review of Existing Sectoral Programs
9a/b, Review and evaluate government and private           __   _  _
1Oa,11, investments in individual sectors
12a,13a
9c    Study of informal sector                                           __     ____
9d    Review of employment location issues
lob    Preparation of slum improvement program
loc/d  Review of government policies and regu-
lations in housing
12b/c  Assessment of transport needs and future
role of different modes
13b    Assessment of social support programs
Local Goverrment Financesi                                                                             il
14a    Study of present revenues and expenditures              _                                               . -
14b    Recommendations for augnentation of revenues
1lc    Projections of expenditures
14d    Advise and assist local governments in
augmentating financial resources                                                   -     i
Formulation of Development Programs
17a    Develop sectoral objectives and guide-
lines
17b    Prepare sectoral program proposals
17c    Review and select proposals
17d    Approval by Government and local bodies



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Preparation of Slum Improvement Program
1.        In collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Housing and Slum Clearance
Boards, MMDA is to:
(a) assemble and analyze basic information on existing slums
in the MMA and on the growth of slums; and
(b) prepare by June 30, 1978 a detailed program for the
improvement of all slums in the MMA by March 31,
1985.
2.        The program would prescribe appropriate improvements for each slum
and their timing, as well as financing and implementing arrangements. Atten-
tion would be given to the impact of sites and services schemes on the rate
of growth of slums and MMDA would specify the scope of the sites and services
program which would have to be carried out in parallel with the improvement
program. In general, the slum improvement program would adhere to the prin-
ciples of the Madras Urban Development Project and the experience gained from
its implementation would be utilized.
Surveys and Preliminary Analyses
3.        An aerial survey of the N4MA is being carried out to identify existing
slums and to provide basic data for preparing the improvement program. The
aerial survey is being complemented with sample ground surveys. This will
establish physical parameters, such as topography, density, floor areas, plot
sizes, type of building materials, existing infrastructure, etc. The physical
parameters will be linked to socio-economic indicators, such as tenure, hut
and land values, employment, income expenditure patterns, health, etc.
4.        A typology map of the MMA slums will be prepared, indicating for
each slum area: the area covered, number of households, number of dwelling
units, and the improvement potential considering physical and socio-economic
constraints. The number of open plots that can be serviced for new settlers
would also be indicated.
Determination of Levels of Improvement
5.        A determination of appropriate levels of improvement will be made
based on an estimate of the ability-to-pay of the slum dwellers and their
priorities for different types of improvement. Working drawings will be



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page 2
prepared for typical slums defined on the basis of the typology map, showing
the physical improvements to be made (drainage, water supply, sewerage, roads,
footpaths and community facilties). Proposals will similarly be prepared
for the necessary social support programs, including employment generation,
nutrition and health, and education.
6.        Any slum clearance schemes deemed necessary because the land is
required for higher priority uses would be separately evaluated and justified
against the alternative of locating the higher priority uses elsewhere. Any
clearance schemes deemed necessary for other reasons (such as the slums
being judged not to be viable communities or being located in flood-prone
areas) would be separately evaluated and justified against the alternatives
of (a) improvement, as outlined above, and (b) neither improvement nor clear-
ance, with the inhabitants offered a choice between remaining or moving to
a sites and services schemes.
7.        An assessment will be made of actual capital, operating and main-
tenance expenditures incurred in completed and ongoing slum improvement schemes,
and the extent to which hire-purchase payments and service charges cover these
expenditures will be determined. The assessment will be taken into account
in the design of the program.
8.        The financial feasibility of the program will be determined and
levels of improvements and payments adjusted if necessary. A financing plan
and a cash flow statement would be prepared.
Implementation
9.        A schedule for implementation would be prepared specifying (a) res-
ponsibilities for key activities such as surveys, land acquisition, engineering
design, construction, legal aspects, collection of payments, operation and
maintenance, monitoring and evaluation etc., and (b) the timing of improve-
ments for individual slums. Attention would be given to the need to revise
the program regularly on the basis of monitoring and evaluation findings. In
this regard, close coordination will be required with the sites and services
program to assess its impact on the growth of slums.






liART1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative          MADRAS HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION (I1 975)
percentage
100 
90 
80 /
70      _
60 
50 _
40L
30tr-
20
10
g~~~ I.I,,.,
100      200      300       400      500      600       700      800      900      1 000
Monthly household income (Rs)
World Bank- 16564






CHART 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (PHYSICAL ELEMENTS)
Calendar year            t 977                      i978                       ,979                       1 980
Component                                           _                          - I-                         -   1
Sites and Services:                                     I
Arumbakkam  .----                                                   - -- m----_---  r
Villkvakkam .. -   _ et-1--- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -
Kodungaiyur ---    .... .  .                                                                                        -  _-
Slum Improvement -------------- ------
Small-Scale Business:
Small industry plots and sheds --   -    -------
Cottage industry sheds---------------- -
Maternal and Child Healthi
Pre-school buildings ------------------ mWA
Water Supply and Sewerage:* ----    i-----
Road and Traffic Improvements .                         |
Inner Ring Road ...        . -- -------                       -      m      -    i
haPedestrian subways: a  b                                   i                                 m|
|Phase 1 (5) ------------------- ^-r 
Phase 2 (4)                                                                    in                    -    in- -----------
Grade separations and bridges ----     -                                                                                                           f
Footpaths and cycle tracks                                                                    in -          i - --
Carriageway improvements - - -                                    - --                                      i
Bus Transport:                                         i
Bus procurementI
Phase 1 (175)- -------------------
Phase 2 (tt10) --       --      ---    .         -- .   - ---------
Depots                                        1     1                                                        -
Phase 1 (2)       -- ------------ -
Phase 2 (1) -| ---                                                                                         - -  ----
|   Terminals.                                           I                                 |      |
Phase 1 (4) ---   ---    ---------   Fz A
Phase   2  (4) - -                                                            i n .- -  . ---------- ------- --
Passenger shelters:
Phase 1 (150)-- _m__ l------ ------  m
Phase 2 (125)- -- ---- ---  - ----------------------                                                            I -                 f--
Phase 3 (125)-- ---.-               --------            . .       ..........
*Schedule to be further reviewed by April 1977 on the basis of the JNDPIWHO study
Legend  ve  - ,  Design and tendering
Construction, delivery and installation
v      Entry of settlers and businesses                                                                               World Bank-1 6563






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Organization of Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
BOARD
SENIOR PLANNER                        ADMINISTRATION               ACCOUNTS
| AREA DEVELOPMENT  l   | AREA DEVELOPMENT |   r AREA DEVELOPMENT               NEW TOWN                 ENGINEERING    J   | URBAN OEVELOPMENT
PLANS (NORTH)             PLANS (CENTRAL)    |     PLANS SOUTH)                 DIVISION                 CELL                  PROJECT
L    MANALI  4    LrANNA SALAI                                                                                6
t    RBA  NOD           SCHEMEl
VVorld Bank-16527






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
BOARD
ADMINISTRATION                                                          PROJECT
AND ACCOUNTS                     MEMBER SECRETARY                     MONITORING/
|   -                 ~~~~~~EVALUATION
l   l    ~~CAPITAL_                 lI.ll
DEVEOMETPROGRAMMING                    COMMUNITY           AEANE
PLANNING            & FINANCIAL        DEVELOPMENT         DEVELOPMENT                  NENGINEERING
MANAGEMENT         PROGRAMS            PLANS                       TOWNENIERG
NORTH
DIVISION
MANALI
NODE
CENTRAL
DIVISION
ANNA SALAI
SOUTH
DIVISION
World Bank-16528                  1C)






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Madras Corporation
|         | ~~COUNCfL AND ITS    l
COMMISSIONER                       STANDING AND
SPECIAL COMMITTEES'
GENERAL DEPARTMENT         COUNCIL DEPARTMENT
P.A. TO COMMISSIONER       SECRETARY TO
LABOR WELFARE OFFICER      COUNCIL
DISTRICT OFFICE NORTH                                       |DISTRICT OFFICE SOUTTH
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER                                         ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER
(MAINTENANCE AND CONSERVANCY)                                  (MAINTENANCE AND CONSERVANCY)
FUNCTIONAL   DEPARTMENTS
CENTRAL                                                                                                                             MECHANICAL       SPECIAL X  H
ACCOUNTS-       RVEU             BUILDINGS        EDCTO             EAT            AE WRS          WRS              LCRCL           ENGINEERING      WORKSSTDU&
CHIEF            RVNE            BIDNEDCTO                         HELHWATER WORtKS                WORKS            ELECTRICAL       MEHAICL         DRINGEDRECORNDS
ACCOUNTS        OFFCERENINEE                      OFICROFICRENIEE                                  EGNER            NINE
OFFICER                                                                            ENGINEER                         ENGINEERENIEREGEREGNERNIER
|ASSISTANT  l|JUNIOR                                         l |EXECUTIVE  ||EXECUTIVE|
_ REVENUE                                      , HEALTH           ENGINER          ENGINEER,
OFFICER (131                                      OFFICER         SUPPLY (2)       CAPITAL
TREASURY                         ASSISTANT       ~~~~~~~~~~EXECUTIVE  EXCTIVE
OFFICER                                           HEALTH          ENGINER          ENINEER
OFICR          MAINTENANCE       BRDES
SPECIAL                                           SENIOR
_OF FItCER                                         LTOMO  
FOR                                            ENTOMO-
ELCIO                                          LOGIST 13)
SUP ER IN-
_TEN DENT
_1II.D.HOSP-
(TA LI
|CHILD     l
_WELFARE|
SCHEME   |                                                                    World Banik-16529
At preSent replaced by the Special Oflicer
To be incorporated in the new Financial Management Department






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Pailavan Transport Cor-poration (Metropolitan Wing)
BOARD
MANAGING DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL ADVISE1R &      CHIEF PERSONNEL         CHIEF SECURITY
TENICAL MANAGER        C           AER                                                                CHIF ACCOUNTS           OFFICER 
OFFICER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OFIE
RECONDITIONING                    DIVISION MANAGER                                                                STATISTICAL           LABOFR WELFARE
WORKSHOPS                         TRAFFIC ENGINEERING                                   SECRETARY                 OFFICER               OFFICfR
CHROMEPET
WORKSHOP
DIVISION MANAGER         DIVISION MANAGER|
OPERATIONS, SOUT-H       OPERATIONS, NORTH
STORES                                                                                    I T1 
6 BRANCH MANAGERS        6 BRANCH MANAGERS
MATERIALS1
World Bank-16530
DEPOTS (121
CIVIL WORKS
a'






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Tamil Nadu Housing Board
BOARD
CHAIRMAN
CHIEF ENGINEER                       ADMINISTRATION             ACCOUNTS
_ _ ... , ~~~~-                _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ * , _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
HUDCO CELL           CELLULAR CONCRETE                                DESiGN & INSPECTION        TOWN PLANNING            ARCHITECTUR
PLANT                                            WING                       WING                     WING
MADURAI    LE              A       CI R             SALEM CIRCLE
F         nX                                                                         World Ban [c - 16531
3 HOUSING UNITS              10 UNITS             4 HOUSING UNITS
COVERING 6 DIS-                                   COVERING 7 DIS-
TRICTS                                            TRICTS






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
BOARD
CHAIRMAN
ENGINEERING        jREVENUE & ADMINISTRATION
CHIEF ENGINEER     fiSECREITARY
SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
EXECUTION                                 DESIGN &    I                REVENUE                           !Al
(6 DIVISIONS)                        .         PLANNING    i           COLLECTION           ACCOUNTS             STATISTICS
SURVEY          TOWN PLANNING           PLANNING                                    World Bank-16532



I.



INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of Small Indtistriet Developnent Ctporation
CHAIRMAN
AND
MANAGiNG DIRECTOR
;MGENERAL MANAGER                                    F
IFINANCIAL ADVISER|               I        MANAGER L                                MANAAESSI
& CAIEF                               DEVELOPMENT                              INDUSTOIFAL                   MANAGER DIE REVENUE                                MANAGER
ACCOUNE   OFFICER                         SERVICES                                 ESTATEA                        MATERCIALS       OFMIAER                          EXPORTS
MADRAS LEVEL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MNAE
ASSASTANTI
1- O F F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  C    E R 
ACCOIJNTS   STOCK            ~~~F INANCI AL     ASSISTANT                                                                                                 _.
O FFIC ER         VERIFICATIO          TllC-StDCO         OFFICER                                                                                               M ANSSAGER         DEV ELOPME NT
STATEA LEVEL'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I IE _T _                                                          .]w
'I           =A    SSTNT               OEP:  >_  UPEI NETY|
|ENGIEE              D  EVELOPMENT  !      M8ANAGER             MAlGUNAGER       STOCK YARD,         T.SLA  (2T
ASSISTANT    |
ENGINEER
The organization below state level in areas other than Madras s not shown.                                                                                            World Sank-16533






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Highways and Rural Works Department
HIGHWAYS                                                                                          NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
CHIEF ENGINEER                                                                                    CHIEF ENGINEER
r-  - i                                    |                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~-                     I              - I
ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                           ADMINISTRATIONEXADRASONI OTHEESEARCHT 
DEPUTY|CHIL                                                                        ADEPUTY CHIEF |                                                         WINGS (4)
| ENGiNEER (2)  l                                                                                                      jENGINEER (2)
MADRAS WING                               OTHERPANNING                                          EXECUTION
WSI SUPRiTEDIN  |i UPESUERINTENDING                   SUPERINGTENDING
(4)            ~~~ENGINEER                       ENGINEER
E CITY  RDS         CINGSAIDAPET                          M ANNEALR            TIRU
DiViSiON    ~ENGINEER            ENGiNEER            ENGINEER        ENGINEER              ENGINEER
ASS iST A N T      WOR KS             ASS I STANT    l    AiSTAN              ASSISTANT
ENGINEER           ASSISTANT          ENGINEERENGINEER                       ENGINEER                                                      World B-nk-16534
ENGINEER                                                                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPACT ON THE GROWTH OF MADRAS' SLUM POPULATION
Million
persons
7
6
5
4                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Total populto (MUA
4
Impact of slum
clearance through 1980
3                            _Impact of sites and
_                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~services component (EWS)
~~~~~~~~~Impact of additional   impact of sluml
_                    ~~~~~~~~~GTN contribution   improvement compoonent 
2                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~to revolving fundL.
2                                    Slum population  \_ 
Actual     \    _      3
1t   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year
1961           1 966           1971           1976            1981           1986
Notes:-Second order effects on the potential growth ot slum population ignored.
-The effects of an estimated 10% annual inflation have been considered.
World Bank-16565






SKETCH 1
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLOT AND CORE OPTIONS                                                            w.c.
Plot Type A   40m' (13' x 33')
side wall                        ~~~~~shower
Plot Type B   47m2 (10' x 50')/
Plot Type C   4,7m2
(Three plots represented)
Scale: 11200






SKETCH 2
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POSSIBLE EVOLUTION OF PLOTS A AND E                                               >< 
second story
shower                   <I|
side walls
temporary roof
Plot A   40m2                                       0
1. plot as sold
2. first stage
3. second stage
4. third stage
\' --."  /  -   .i'             ".         -/
temporary hut    g'/'f ,
Plot B   47m2
1. plot as sold
2. second stage
3. third stage
4. fourth stage                                -f              I
Scale: 1/200






SKETCH 3
I NDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLOT C CLUSTER
(REPRESENTING ALSO THE FINAL STAGE OF EVOLUTION OF PLOTS B)
The isometric represents 15 dwelling units on 47m' plots.
Scale: 1/200






SKETCH 4
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL IMPROVEMENT OF LOW DENSITY SLUM  90
X~~~~~0 7 MWj,;@
- S _ ;: 1: 3 y                        UNIMPROVED
--------"----            /
Street
existing hut
0c~~~~~~s ~~open  plot
mu        ~         *      000                             I  IMPROVED
W0W-
\  paved road or path
communai toilets and baths
parking space for mobile health clinic
*    public water tap
culverts
_ _                10Z11  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~retaii area
prime commercial or small industry area
3li   nullah non aedificandi zone
_    _    limit of gov. land
0 5 101 5 20 m scale 1/1000






SKETCH 5
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL IMPROVEMENT OF HIGH DENSITY SLUM
UNIMPROVED
Street
IMPROVED
paved road or path
C3communal toilets and baths
parking space for moble health clinic
_   publ_ _water tap
-     hut to be relocated
--surface water drainage
~~~~~                                           ___  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  0mscalel1l1000






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL SLUM CONDITIONS (1I






INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL SLUM CONDITIONS (2)
.~~~~~~~~~~~i
.~ '
r              






IBRD 12401
", F   ,c9                              z. 
-7 ~   ~     N 
- b ~~o                b2 X ,9 i -~
E o                                   :
L   7        -                                                                                                                 N, i1   .,   
I:                                                                                                                        * :'V  0  ,',_-'-\>
''i,2t                            \'-       Jl o     > 1'/!1        f        }S  






IND IA 
Madras Urban Development Project                                                            ,4' *//                                                              /
ROAD AND TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
Project:                                                                                      A~4
Inner Ring Road                            Major roads (National Highways)                                          ,,       /  /
Footpath and cycle tracks                  Other roads and streets                                                  i                                          /
to be improved                  ------Railways                                                                                         ot
-Ctarrioges ays adrd intersections             Riv ens / ca,als    /I2 
to be improved                  - M       da        iybudr
Pedestrian subways and brodges                                                                                   -      /    pt boun/a/
Monor bridges                                                   \ 4'v,                                                    /          VMdstS/
Rail / road grade separations                                     o4 ,                                    J  -                    tI
O,0           1      2                     3 r-_  f_r |1; / 
Kiln meters                 2         8\                                  )        N       D                      c 1/       WI         /       .   /I
-'---On- Ar%<S- n oom;D 
0'~~~ p00                                                                        ~SOp                                             rr |/\1= 7
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       .
l.  1s  0   ,i'  /  0    X                    X t                              !/               0         00~/    0 ~ 
JJ
\\,g   ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cv                                                                                                  it     : j     -f     :''  
o e   00?0 g050a
1:, , > 7'---'- '-1 4R-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ak:*d)IStli'ANI/ 
</ \ / X 1 _ <_- %_J} { N D ~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                           s   M
d..> !.   '9  t    . _    +       i                           I                                            SURMA
P-<                                                                                  W \ r . )  \B  \  O /  ; Seo 0 , BAy  of   eao H  r
(,                               / X j              M L >ts   l LANGA  03
'-                  .                                                                                                              to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






INDIA                                                                \6KKoi                        e*c
Madras Urban Development Project                                                                                                    '
ARUMBAKKAM SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
AAMa1or highways                Ar-6b1kom  Sites and Services Component.                     -kk . t. t Rd                                    I N  D    A 
City roads and streets               Pro ecs site boundary                                 J'k                                      lt
Rivers and waterways                 Roods- rght of way 20 feet or more                            ,, ,ite I r
Madras Cty boundcry                 Land use:                                           5FS                                   i 
Land  se                               Residential
Residential                        'Co mercial                       I                                c                                   i
Co-erial                             St..ls indsisry                 po -                                 C25M   tyN,! C
Idustrial'1~      ~                 Com--nty fan-   e                                                              nt-! 
7   fnitstic,nal                       Parsn-oyee spoces                                                                      
7 1 Parks-open spaces                     Cattle sneds                                                                                A/.
CQ Pre schools                       0Pre-schools                       ISA5
Q  High schools                      (  P Hirgh  school stnod
C) Primar schools                       HI Pnta  chaols                                                  ~R LANK.
4  Medical facilities                4        a       t es                                                         -.-Riy
-__  0   troo      200       J00      400      ,r                                                             IA  n 2n,in,n,n n ti      7
;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~MTR                                                                                                                          R     .iPs  f c  < |//                        [_.\2 -1 _  < i
o       300      609      909       120
mm g_ Pns/                    =           B           0
olices  -$                                                   =/  1                                           t
JAGANATHA                                                VAISHNATA
NAGAR                               -COLEt                                     7
., r ,;t  ,4,,_   
An~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT
1C17 O- NAGAR\                                                                                                           4                          ,                                          5>
/substation                                   - ---s.      NAA
MADRAS                                                                                                                  PRESSpCeg
CORPORATION                                   purna ,,,
SEWAGE                                                          Helhnd
FARM                                                                                                                   d    -,           - 
//  /                                                  -      AVVAV  NA OAR           ~~~~~~~~~~MURUGAPPA                                 JKMRJRAA
SENTHIIL NAGAR
FT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T1
.5-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i  PAMAPABA1             5m.                                OWBKI'






INDIA
Madras Urban Development Project                                                    .v2                              _i
VILLIVAKKAM SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT.                                                                    '            ii          i' 
-;   Major highways               V11liavokkm Sites and Services Component:                                    I|
City roads and streets           Proiect site boundories
Railways                         Roads right of woy20feetor more
Canol                         Land use                                  C1e   r more
Land use:                          Residential                                                                 l>
Residentoial                    CommerciaiJ\l os 
Commercial                      Small industry                                     ~Ps
= Industrial                    Community facilities                          2                                      ' Office         \
Institutional                   Parks-open spaces
Parks-open spaces               Cattle sheds                                                                                                                      a
I0 Pe-school                    0 Pre-school                                                                                                    h
(  Primary schools              (D Primary schools k-.i                                               , -  -                                    !J               .
O  High schools                 Q High school                                          -- . I  i r
4 Medical facilities       +        Medical facilities t-
/                                                  t     ,          iW1'. 2   
F   ,_ - -i|   @      t    .f       -  ~~~~Vetnlamy Hospital    W s .       C i
--  ~ rL        >             (OKONNUR
- ~        -.                                                                        Villivakkam
Rouiwry Statio,
i           /                         *    c~~ ~ ~~~                                               ~~ t  *  4   li                      =
_~~~~~~~~~ 1>_cxwJ/                               X -F- /-+e
}~~~~~~esg -f _[ASi__ I                                                                                                             j       r1 +i 
and tank                                          i                                   Office
*Water well                                                                               Ps
/                       0 g    E        | 1     1Q        ]  S177d tonk     |0     X      *c O am
Sewage pumping staion-.-am al   and                            .                                                                  Comri-
T2 b-i  \,  1-ih  1-    -,                                                                                                                i 
1, 11, h, hc                                                     ntyt
I Nm
\'   - S  L    ,. eL           X    i S       S          ,                                        / / -         -      <          <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIES 
~~-2     /C>                                      iiii                       FiitCstOFOicecH                                           0. sO;
-_-== = = _ = 7= ea 0 ;$ if it        --                                     i--l--    Roa00                                                            r ?00  0  -    G 
LANA                        - .L-R - y
_______  |    __                      Cfi Cbde, 






IBRD 12405
I ND  IA                          OCTOBER 1976
Madras Urban Development Project
B                                                              gi <2 fl g) i ;KODUNGAIYUR SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
W  ~~~ Bsnn,,s OEBSI~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~                                                                                                               Major roads           Kodungayur Sites & Seruices Componeorrodsntcungnyr Ses& Sr~cesCoponnt
S."                                                                                                               City roads & streets          Project site boundary
Canals                     Rud-r.ghtof-my20 feet or more
/ ArumbLm    /                   k.~1   .d            i <   S   =    .  -    _lrtw=   Cz   -                                                                                                 L Lard  use.                 Land  use
-U  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ .A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Res,dential             Reside.tial
s~~~u'~~~~~~.g A,~~~~~~~nhokknn  -~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       Commercial                   Cammeccial~~~~~~~~~~~il  omeria
,~~~~~    /                                                                                                                                      Irdustrial                   Small industry~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In   ,Ir,c  Sal cusr
Madra  City                                                                                                                                                                                  Institutional         _         Community facilities
Parks-open, spaces           Parks-open spaces
Cattle sheds
-iD Pre-school
Th                                                                                                     (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Primary schools
DS High schools
- R--Bod                                                                                                                                                                                                 4   Medical facilities
p-'    a        --Cim                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
F:                                             t/;J    <                                                                  FjSw-?--+  3au;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ in
r   ;  N ' i zX  <   >4   S9\>t > iS        r           .e                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~grun
rpet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L-
A,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B,g
,!,,  g  iQ X   vD    __V:;                                                         ._-- ,p,  a. __-                         j-         O        100      200      3ao      400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    00 200 300 40
'  ' 6hOdr9  Xj0ts OQ''- , *-<' i: METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETR
Rl  LANKA   t            >    e  :    w         -    'g                              i  8                                                           0       3ro     600      9ro     1200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   3 0  00 90   10
-'5- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FE






IBRD 12407
7                     ~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1976
B.d~~ ~ ~ t  0                                                                      8 9 
SI                                                                                                                                                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
Ny-.                                                                                                          Copot p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~d.,~I..1  03    1492,,
its~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      53 ,                                                               M,7o,,h,oo .1424, -,    1 
M.   -       '.    414     i-       d-dh   2,W
B~~d -dlhtl b.11-p/y                                                    - 8         cto-,,I   425.5ATtAK
-,I,  1. 2"2  C......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                        ,,,,,d,,, bt,,,91,
-p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26                                                  IF'R                                P4Ot0P4-6 9/2
--                                      M,,dt,,,,,,o,,[,,Leoel  2223,,   '..,,..-              0o  2,,ptho  -,I,ttt,t,t  212,,~~~~~~~~TIONI
C.-;1,  76 50                                              14~~ ~~              ~        ~~~~~~~~~-,, o,  542  VVISER  R020111.0, F LTEES/ TIJVTYu
Cop,l        74.b -13 56,,,o                                                   .....d/161,                                                                IRVT~J
MttOto-o,   2038 325,40
K                                                                                                                   MA LA-IA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAPAM
CONDLIITJ                6,
A VA /jtf     1,  ~~~~~~~CONIDJIT 2  ,          477tIt,,
42' /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
/   I    >5                N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMSBATTUJR                                  d
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EK
\tT 5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 0
7                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Madras Urbanl Development ProjectAR                                                                                                         
22K    EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SOURCES FOR MADRAS    N,                                                                                                                               S
PAKISTAN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - <   I  -  2/s o   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   0,481  C 4t~~~~~I0fl  l~~~  -  t  ,   -                                       HEOjt25tSRttS~~~~~~H E
7  p ~~~  It A  -'  ~ ~  ~        NoMttonol ,nagwy                                hsbtmoko
5--                                                                                     Tool~~~~~~~~h-[
jo  NNE~~~~~~~1~~ouipi  -,,                GIs~~C.d.1tmontos-
2tsQ   ti    boots-                    -                                                                                                                                     El,- n  al
41,04,0,  MoI,o.                0      2      4~~~~~Mdrs etopht~ re bopdr                                                             PAL AVARAM
A,,,hi-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ soAM,,
52               4 
LANKA    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ,o~,TAMPARAMA                                                                                 - - -0-






INDIA
'OWEW   ROUGHING FILTERS                                                        Madras Urban Development Project
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE COMPONENT
FXIST,NG PROPOSED
i~ d!ie rG 0                                                        = |- Conduits -Kod.ngaiyur sewage treatment farm to be rehabilitated
-   Water mains (diameters in inches)                  -66  Veeranom water main under construction
H=sl__                                                             Storoge or service reservoirs;               92    Water distribution none boundories and numbers
Underground crapacity (milion gallons)             Rivers and canals                                                          t
11-O.L          -     Overhead capacity imillion gallons)        NH 5   National Highways
Other main roads
Railways                           ' 
-  -Madras City boundary              /                
SEWAGE I\    (  M:a^,>;_gR  <   X  0     /                          7
\ 3 4 ,2 g 1gl z H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EATWORKS |29,
COINDJT I
i 52_ r, 29r,
JONDUIT 2
1,97.  1.29,                                                                                                      /               10        /l
I OHlNSON PAR1K
On A,k.r-                !
/                               i l '                            C                   ;t0  9~~~~~~ `
r  ~               ~            /~nnr      --                                                           7' -I
INDIA     -~~~p-E7 '. .ju.  --   -     S
o                               a 
E  A0
rn                                                        1                      a 6, _.  ~   = , =    " >   <   .  'L 1 " |      :A'  /
TU, SMI
.1 ~       ~           ~           t                         - -=-  -  -: 8W i                                       \-t
-*N.ew e , Ev=5Wf
''I N   D   I A - ,JUfiI   '[ _ 
riR  / n-                                                               -1                                                                                                                   0 -X'' j
t   ~~~~- ?-.t, o' .5-  _:                                    i      Z E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K(tOMETERS                                                f 
,ILANKA                                                   |OdE2
______________________________                                                                                                                                   m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIF



