                       PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                                                   April 8, 2011
                                                                                            Report No.: AB6520
                                                  (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                        Emergency Recovery Support Operation
Region                                EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                               Kyrgyz Republic
Sector                                General public administration sector (25%);Other social
                                      services (25%);General energy sector (20%);General finance
                                      sector (15%);Public administration- Information and
                                      communications (15%)
Operation ID                          P125425
Lending Instrument                    Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                           KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                      Ministry of Finance
                                      58 Erkindik Boulevard
                                      Bishkek
                                      Kyrgyz Republic
                                      720040
                                      Tel: (996-312) 660-504       Fax: (996-312) 661-645
Date PID Prepared                     April 8, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal
Estimated Date of Board               July 26, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision             Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                      proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.      Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

1.       Kyrgyz is a low income country with GDP per capita of $880 in 2010. While Kyrgyz has made
significant advances to liberalize and modernize its economy, it has faced significant governance
challenges. In April 2010, following violent anti-Government demonstrations in several cities, the former
President was ousted and constitutional reforms took place creating the first parliamentary democracy in
Central Asia. In June, 2010 violent inter-ethnic clashes erupted in the south of the country and lasted 3
days, resulting in loss of life, displacement, and significant material damage. The two events led to loss
of confidence in the private sector and the disruption of business activities and caused a recession.

2.       A Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the period 2007-2008, which was presented to
the Board in October 2009 [Report No. 48300-KG] recommended policy based lending in FY 10 and 11.
This was in response to the budget needs resulting from the 2008/2009 global financial and food price
crises, as well as the readiness of the authorities to adopt reforms within a medium term development
strategy. The events of April and June 2010 led to a shift towards crisis response actions on the part of
the authorities and donors alike and additional need to provide budget support.
3.      This operation has been designed to support the government’s reform program aimed at
improving governance, restoring economic growth, safeguarding social expenditures and protecting
vulnerable categories of the population.

II.     Proposed Objective(s)

4.      This is a single tranche budget support operation for 2011 budget of the Kyrgyz Republic. The
operation will support policy actions implemented by the Government between April 2010 and May
2011. These policy measures are within the core of the new Government’s reform program aimed at a)
improving governance, c) facilitating economic recovery and c) protecting essential social expenditures.
Specific objectives of the operation are as follows:

       (i)     Strengthened governance in the management of public assets and revenues through
               maintaining Ministry of Finance total control over all capital spending by abolishment of
               the off-budget development fund and asserting stronger budget control, enhancing
               transparency in privatization process, establishing proper accounting and improving
               operational performance in the energy sector, and maintaining financial sector stability
               and increasing access to financial services; and

       (ii)    Safeguarding social spending by ensuring essential social protection spending, and re-
               establishing livelihoods and providing social compensation for the conflict-affected
               population and businesses.

III.    Preliminary Description

5.     The operation will support Government’s policies in two specific areas:

               •   Strengthened governance in the management of public assets and revenues. The
                   authorities have taken measures to re-assert ministerial control over capital spending
                   and its financing, and have tightened standards on management of public assets – all
                   areas of conspicuous weakness under the previous administration. Critically, greater
                   transparency has been established over energy sector accounts. Further institutional
                   reforms are to be designed and implemented. The national budget is now presented
                   on a consolidated basis. Reform measures have been directed at stabilizing and re-
                   tooling the banking sector and microfinance institutions for expanding lending – the
                   authorities have managed the liquidation of a major private bank successfully and
                   while a thorough assessment of its assets and liabilities continues, they managed to
                   shield the system from contagion.

               •   Safeguarding social protection and supporting conflict-affected population. The
                   authorities have raised the value of and reformed the criteria for general social
                   benefits to improve targeting and have provided additional support for conflict-
                   affected families. Moreover, livelihoods and housing for such families are being
                   supported. Social protection spending directed at post-conflict needs was rights-
                   based in nature and have now to be incorporated within a targeted means-based
                   system.

6.      In addition to providing support to particular policy actions taken by the authorities, this
operation is embedded in a macroeconomic framework developed by the Kyrgyz authorities to be
supported under a 3-year Extended Credit Facility by the IMF. The proceeds of this operation will be
used to support the 2011 government budget in a coordinated effort with the IMF and other multilateral
and bilateral donors, who are together expected to provide financing equivalent to 5.4 percent of Kyrgyz
GDP. The 2011 budget has been designed to support economic recovery following the 2010 downturn, as
well as to provide support for the most vulnerable categories of the population. As growth has been
instrumental to poverty reduction in recent years, this operation is expected to contribute to poverty
alleviation both by supporting economic growth, as well as specific policy actions aimed at providing
support to most vulnerable categories of the Kyrgyz population.

IV.     Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

7.      This operation is expected to have a positive and significant impact on poverty. It will support
poverty reduction in two principle ways: a) it will provide support to the government budget, which has
been designed to support growth and financing for the most vulnerable categories of the population,
including the increase in wages in health, education, and social sectors, where average wage is close to
the poverty line and b) by supporting policy actions aimed at improving the targeting of social benefits,
increasing payments to vulnerable households to soften the impact of the recent price increase, as well as
to provide adequate assistance to families affected by the 2010 conflict.

8.       Between 2006 and 2009, 15.5% real increase in GDP per capita in local currency was associated
with 8 percentage points in poverty reduction. Thus, the Government’s macroeconomic framework and
other reforms aimed at setting the conditions for strong economic growth are expected to result in
significant poverty reduction over the medium term, as growth is expected to average 6 percent between
2011 and 2015.

9.      The design of this operation has benefited from the analytical knowledge gained in the context of
the preparation of the Poverty Update 2011.


Environment Aspects

10.     The specific policies supported by the operation are not likely to have significant effects on
Kyrgyz Republic environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the ERSO
operation are intended primarily to ensure growth, stability and fiscal prudence, and to support the
government in strengthening governance in management of public assets and public finances, promoting
private sector development, and nurturing post-conflict recovery and safeguarding social protection. No
negative effects on the environment can be foreseen from these measures.


V.      Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                    ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                            0
International Development Association (IDA)                                                  30
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                           Total             30
VI.    Contact point

       World Bank
       Contact: Afsaneh Sedghi
       Title: Senior Economist
       Tel: (202) 473-7518
       Fax:
       Email: asedghi@worldbank.org

       Borrower

       Contact:        Melis Mambetjanov
       Title:          Minister of Finance
       Tel:            996-312) 660-504
       Email:          E-mail:n.akjolov@minfin.kg; m.baigonchokov@minfin.kg;
                              ch.ibraimova@minfin.kg

VII.   For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
