                                                                                63682

                                Kyrgyz Republic: Interim Strategy Note – FY12-FY13
                                                        and
                               Kyrgyz Republic: Economic Recovery Support Operation

                                                    Meeting of Executive Directors

                                                               August 2, 2011
                                                                                  
                                                       Chairman’s Summing Up

        The Executive Directors discussed the joint IDA/IFC/MIGA Kyrgyz Republic Interim Strategy
Note (ISN) for FY12-13 (R2011-0173[IDA/R2011-0256; IFC/R2011-0213; MIGA/R2011-0053]).

         Directors commended the Kyrgyz Republic authorities for their efforts to restore economic
stability despite the severe economic and social challenges that the country had faced since the violence
of April and June 2010. They also welcomed the progress in the preparation of a medium-term
development strategy. Directors noted the challenging fiscal adjustment envisaged in 2012 and 2013 in
order to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic trajectory. In this context, they highlighted the need for
tighter fiscal stance comprising ambitious tax and public expenditure reforms which should include
poverty alleviation, improved service delivery and strengthened accountability.

         Directors broadly supported the ISN, noting the scenarios presented and the pertinence of an
approach that could adapt to the government’s chosen policy direction after the elections of fall 2011.
They welcomed the frankness of the ISN’s assessment of the challenges facing the country, its use of
concepts drawn from the 2011 World Development Report on conflict and development, and the focus on
governance and transparency. However, Directors noted with concern the high levels of poverty
especially for the rural poor, and the high maternal mortality rates. They encouraged the Authorities to
prioritize these areas so as to ensure better outcomes and enhanced service delivery. The importance of
institutional capacity building was also stressed.

         Finally, Directors emphasized the importance of continued external assistance for the country’s
stabilization and strengthening partnerships with other donors to build synergies and enhance overall
development effectiveness.

                                                         Summary of Discussion*

        With respect to the Economic Recovery Support Operation, Executive Directors approved the
Credit and Grant to Kyrgyz Republic in the amounts of SDR 10.4 million (US$16.5 million equivalent),
and SDR 8.5 million (US$13.5 million equivalent) respectively on the terms and conditions set out in the
President’s Memorandum (IDA/R2011-0257).


        They expressed support for the program’s objectives, and noted the approach in promoting
economic recovery, strengthening accountability and good governance, safeguarding social protection, as
well as the efforts being undertaken to restore macroeconomic performance and measures aimed at
increasing transparency and accountability. Directors also noted the challenges facing the Authorities
going forward in ensuring the medium term fiscal consolidation and in safeguarding the stability of
financial sector. They acknowledged significant risks that remain but expressed satisfaction with the way
they were addressed in the operation. Directors urged continued collaboration among development
partners particularly in strengthening the government’s institutional capacity and promoting structural
reforms.
                                                            

  This summary is not an approved record.
