                                            CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 5009-KG
                                     GRANT NUMBER H730-KG




  Financing Agreement


    (Economic Recovery Support Operation)


                  between


            KYRGYZ REPUBLIC


                    and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




          Dated September 25, 2011
                                                            CREDIT NUMBER 5009-KG
                                                            GRANT NUMBER H730-KG

                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated September 25, 2011, entered into between KYRGYZ
REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

              ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II - FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit (collectively,
        “Financing”) in the following amounts:

        (a)     an amount equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special
                Drawing Rights (SDR 8,500,000) (“Grant”); and

        (b)     an amount equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand Special
                Drawing Rights (SDR 10,400,000) (“Credit”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.
                                           -2-


2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                             ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, the event
        specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
        of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
        the Recipient.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
                                          -3-


        out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                58 Erkindik Blvd.
                Bishkek City, 720040
                Kyrgyz Republic

                                        Telex:                       Facsimile:

                                        245-156 NUR KH               (996-312) 661645

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable:                  Telex:                       Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)                 1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.
                                       -4-


        AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.




                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC




                              By /s/ Melis Mambetjanov

                                                     Authorized Representative


                              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                              By /s/ Philippe H. Le Houerou

                                                     Authorized Representative
                                          -5-


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

1.      The Development Fund that was designed to hold and allocate incoming external
        finance to investment projects outside the budgetary process has been placed
        under liquidation pursuant to Interim Government Ordinance Number 31, dated
        April 30, 2010, and the audit of said Development Fund by an external auditor
        appointed by the Recipient has commenced.

2.      The following Resolutions of the Recipient have been passed to establish
        improved asset management norms and practices for the Ministry of State
        Property: (i) Resolution Number 178 of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic,
        dated August 27, 2010; (ii) Resolution Number 309 of the Government of the
        Kyrgyz Republic, dated December 8, 2010; and (iii) Resolution Number 104 of
        the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, dated March 14, 2011.

3.      The Recipient has achieved compliance with the Extractive Industries
        Transparency Initiative’s (EITI) global standards for improved transparency in
        the oil, gas and mining sectors as evidenced by the declaration made by EITI at
        the March 2011 Global EITI Conference.

4.      Recipient has adopted the Energy Sector Transparency Initiative (ESTI) pursuant
        to Presidential Decree Number 49, dated July 20, 2010, and the following
        measures have been carried out: (a) the Supervisory Council (SC) of the
        Ministry of Energy, comprising representatives of the Recipient, power
        companies and civil society, has been established to supervise ESTI
        implementation; (b) the SC has adopted internal regulations for its governance;
        and (c) a transparent and rules-based mechanism for managing and monitoring
        financial flows, particularly, electricity export proceeds in the escrow account,
        has been established.

5.      Performance Agreements that include indicators pertaining to losses and the
        collection of revenue in the energy sector have been signed and are in effect
        between the Energy Regulatory Authority and the energy companies.

6.      The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR), as the banking supervisory
        authority, has restructured the financially distressed OJSC AsiaUniversalBank
        (AUB) into a new entity, the Zalkar Bank, and has introduced direct supervision
        and temporary administration procedures for the rehabilitation of financially
        distressed banks.
                                            -6-


7.        NBKR has issued Directive Number 30, dated May 26, 2011, for improving
          supervisory response mechanisms to identify shortcomings in, and initiate
          prompt preventive and corrective action to, financially distressed banks in the
          Kyrgyz Republic.

8.        The Deposit Protection Agency has been reconstituted as an independent legal
          entity by Government Resolution Number 269, dated May 31, 2011.

9.        In its respective national budgets for 2010 and 2011, and pursuant to Resolutions
          Number 131 of July 20, 2010, and Number 134 of April 4, 2011, respectively,
          the Recipient has increased the Guaranteed Minimum Income (GMI) by ten
          percent (10%) during the mid-2010 to mid-2011 period, and by 19 percent (19%)
          from mid 2011 onwards, in order to maintain the value of Monthly Benefits for
          the Low Income Families with Children in real terms.

10.       Pursuant to Presidential Decree Number 795, dated December 22, 2009, On
          Providing Monetary Compensation to Selected Categories of Citizens in
          Connection with Changing Energy Prices, in-kind social benefits that would
          have been provided to beneficiaries have been monetized as direct cash
          payments to be made to beneficiaries, with the number of rights-based categories
          of said beneficiaries reduced from thirty-nine (39) to twenty-five (25).

11.       Pursuant to the Interim Government Decree Number 124, dated August 24, 2010,
          additional monthly social benefits for families affected by the national crisis of
          2010 have been introduced.

Section II.       Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.        General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
          accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
          the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.        Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
          tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
          allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table
          below:

                                                  Amount of the Financing Allocated
                 Allocations                            (expressed in SDR)
     Single Withdrawal Tranche                                18,900,000

              TOTAL AMOUNT                                    18,900,000
                                       -7-


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
     Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
     Association; and

2.   the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
     into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget
     management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                         -8-


                                    SCHEDULE 2

                                  Repayment Schedule

                                                     Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                repayable
              Date Payment Due                        (expressed as a percentage)*

On each January 15 and July 15:

commencing January 15, 2022 to and including                        1%
July 15, 2031

commencing January 15, 2032 to and including                        2%
July 15, 2051




*   The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
    repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b)
    of the General Conditions.
                                          -9-


                                     APPENDIX


Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Deposit Protection Agency” means the Recipient’s deposit insurance agency
        established by Government Resolution Number 387, dated July 18, 2008, or any
        successor thereto.

2.      “Development Fund” means the Recipient’s development fund established by the
        Law of the Kyrgyz Republic on the Development Fund, Number 135, dated
        August 6, 2007.

3.      “Energy Regulatory Authority” means the Recipient’s energy regulatory
        authority established by Government Resolution Number 722, dated November
        26, 2009, or any successor thereto.

3.      “Energy Sector Transparency Initiative” or “ESTI” means the Recipient’s energy
        sector transparency initiative pursuant to Presidential Decree Number 49, dated
        July 20, 2010.

4.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:


                        Group             Sub-group             Description of Item

                        112                                     Alcoholic beverages

                        121                                     Tobacco, un-
                                                                manufactured, tobacco
                                                                refuse
                              - 10 -



               Group            Sub-group           Description of Item

               122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                    (whether or not
                                                    containing tobacco
                                                    substitutes)
               525                                  Radioactive and
                                                    associated materials

               667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                    semiprecious stones,
                                                    unworked or worked

               718              718.7               Nuclear reactors, and
                                                    parts thereof; fuel
                                                    elements (cartridges),
                                                    non-irradiated, for
                                                    nuclear reactors

               728              728.43              Tobacco processing
                                                    machinery
               897              897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver
                                                    or platinum group
                                                    metals (except watches
                                                    and watch cases) and
                                                    goldsmiths’ or
                                                    silversmiths’ wares
                                                    (including set gems)
               971                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                    (excluding gold ores
                                                    and concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
      agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

(e)   on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
      Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
      United Nations; and
                                          - 11 -


        (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
                collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
                Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
                Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
                action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
                occur.

6.      “Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” or “EITI” means the extractive
        industries transparency initiative established under a multi-donor trust fund for
        providing countries with grant resources to implement EITI principles of revenue
        transparency as well as to implement global standards for improved transparency
        in the oil, gas and mining sectors.

7.      “Financing Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 of Section II of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

8.      “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
        modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

9.      “Ministry of Energy” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy, or any successor
        thereto.

10.     “Ministry of State Property” means the Recipient’s Ministry of State Property, or
        any successor thereto.

11.     “Monthly Benefits for the Low Income Families with Children” means the
        monthly benefits for the low income families with children under the Law of the
        Kyrgyz Republic on State Benefits, Number 3180, dated December 29, 2009.

12.     “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        protect basic services within a sustainable fiscal framework, and to lay
        foundation for post-crisis recovery and growth, as set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated June 21, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
        Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
        assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution.

13.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

        The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
                                       - 12 -


1.   The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
     Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.   Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
     in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
     accordingly.

3.   “Section 3.02. Service Charge and Interest Charge

     (a)     Service Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association a service charge on
             the Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
             Agreement. The Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates
             on which amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable
             semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Service Charges shall be
             computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

     (b)     Interest Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the
             Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
             Agreement. Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on which
             amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually
             in arrears on each Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis
             of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.”

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

             “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
             invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
             under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
             shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.”

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

             “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
                                      - 13 -


            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.”

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Financing Payment” is modified by inserting the words “the
            Interest Charge” between the words “the Service Charge” and “the
            Commitment Charge”.

     (d)    A new term called “Interest Charge” is added to read as follows:

            “‘Interest Charge’ means the interest charge specified in the Financing
            Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.02(b).”

     (e)    The term “Payment Date” is modified by inserting the words “Interest
            Charges” between the words “Service Charges” and “Commitment
            Charges”.

     (f)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project”
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program”.
                             - 14 -


(g)   The term “Service Charge” is modified by replacing the reference to
      Section 3.02 with Section 3.02 (a).
