Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFAL USiE ONLY
Report No. 11945
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1513-SU)
JUNE 7, 1993
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter         = 0.39 inches
Im - meter                = 3.28 feet
lm3 - cubic meter         = 264 US gallons
11 - litre                = 0.26 US gallons
1 bbl - barrel            = 42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram           = 2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer          = 0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer  = 0.39 square miles
It - ton                  = 2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt           = 1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt           = 1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour      = 1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour      = 1 million kilowatthours
ENERGY CONVERSION FACTORS
Fuel                Physical Units per TOE    Million Kcal per Unit
Petroleum
- LPG                       1.06                    10.8
-gasoline                   1.03                    10.5
- kerosone/jet fuel         1.01                    10.3
- gasoil                    1.00                    10.2
- fuel oil                  0.96                     9.8
Electricity (MWh)            4.00                86.0 x 102
Biomass (mt)
- charcoal                  0.68                     6.9
- fuelwood                  0.32                     3.3
- other                     0.26                     2.7
Other Items:
1 toe = 10.2 million kcal = 40.5 million BTU = 42.7 GJ
1 kcal = 3.968 BTU6
1 kcal = 4.19 x 10 GJ
1 MWh = 860,000 kcal = 0.248 TOE at 34% efficiency in thermal (oil) generation
FISCAL YEAR: JULY 1 - JUNE 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BC            before Christ
BOPD          barrels of oil per day
BTU           British Thermal Unit
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
GIIP          Gas Initially In Place
GMRD          Geological and Mineral Resources Department
GOS           Government of the Sudan
GPC           General Petroleum Corporation of Sudan
GRAS          Geological Research Authority of the Sudan
(successor to GMRD)
g/t           grams per ton
Ig            Imperial gallon
IPC           International Petroleum Corporation (Canada)
JOC           Joint Operating Committee
kgoe          kilograms of oil equivalent
km            kilometer
LPG           Liquefied Petroleum Gas
m             meter
M             thousand
MEM           Ministry of Energy and Mining
MM            million
MMM           billion
mt            metric ton
mtpa          metric tons per annum
NEA           National Energy Administration
PSR           Port Sudan Refinery
SRC           Sudan Railway Corporation
STBO          Stock Tank Barrels of Oil
STOIIP        Stock Tank Oil Initially in Place
toe           (metric) tons of oil equivalent
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WNPC          White Nile Petroleum Corporation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sudan
Petroleum Technical Assistance Prolect (Credit 1513-SU)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Sudan - Petroleum
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1513-SU)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project supported the Government's efforts to promote foreign
investment  in  petroleum  exploration  and  strengthen  the  Government's
administrative capability to negotiate with foreign companies, and to evaluate
the potential of recently discovered marginal oil fields. About 3% of the funds
were used to finance similar activities in the mineral mining sector.
The project met all its institutional objectives. It inventoried the
country's known petroleum resources, helped establish the legal and institutional
framework for promotion activities and carried out some promotion. The basic
elements for exploiting petroleum and mineral resources are now in place, as are
the institutions and local skill base. However, international firms are likely
to wait for a return to peace and security before becoming active again. The
performance of the project is rated as satisfactory, institutional development
as substantial and sustainability of benefits as uncertain.
The Project Completion Report is thorough and comprehensive.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Sank authorization.



I



SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity                                              1
2.   Background                                                     1
3.   Project Objectives and Description                             1
4.   Project Design and Organization                               2
5.   Project Implementation                                        3
6.   Project Results                                               5
7.   Project Sustainability                                         7
8.  IDA Performance                                                7
9.   Borrower Performance                                          7
10.  Project Relationships                                          8
11.  Consulting Services                                            8
12.  Project Documentation and Reporting                            9
13.  Conclusion, Lessons Learned and Follow-Up Action               9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Accuracy of Part I of the PCR                                12
Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance                 13
Impact of the Project                                        13
Effectiveness of Consultants                                 14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Loans and Credits                                15
Project Timetable                                            15
Credit Disbursements                                         15
Project Implementation                                       16
Project Costs & Financing                                     17
Project Results                                              18
Studies                                                      18
Training                                                      19
Status of Covenants                                          20
Use of IDA Resources                                         21






SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum  Technical
Assistance Project in the Sudan, for which Credit 1513-SU in the amount of SDR
11,600,000 (US$12.0 million equivalent), was approved on December 7, 1984. The credit
was closed on June 30, 1992 (original closing date was June 30, 1989). The credit was 97.1
percent disbursed and the last disbursement was on September 10, 1992.
2.    Parts I and III were prepared by the Public and Private Enterprise Division
(AF2PE), based on information available in the project files and information contained in
the draft project completion report prepared by the project's technical consultants (Simon-
Robertson) in April 1992.
3.    The borrower completed Part II of this PCR on the basis of draft project
completion report prepared by the technical consultants.






- ii -
SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen the national petroleum
administration; (b) support the government's efforts to promote the exploration for
hydrocarbons; and (c) help address issues that have been raised by the discovery of oil and
gas in the country.
2.    The project included: (i) assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
through provisions for experts, training, equipment and other facilities; (b) exploration
promotion; and (c) oil and gas utilization studies. In addition, in response to a GOS
request, IDA agreed to finance from the existing credit, mining sector promotion activities
(para. 5.05).
Exprience and Results
3.    The project was originally scheduled to be completed in June 30, 1989 but
completion date was later revised to June 30, 1992 because the mineral investigation and
promotional activities in late 1990/early 1991 was delayed because of the "Gulf Crisis." The
technical consultants, Simon-Robertson (SR) (originally known as Robertson Research
International Limited of U.K (RRI)Jj) had to withdraw from Sudan after mobilization
and only returned to Khartoum in May 1991 to resume its work.
4.    The estimated project cost at appraisal was US$13.3 million of which US$ 12 million
(90 percent of total costs) would come from IDA and about US$1.3 million equivalent of
local cost to be financed by the Government. Final Bank disbursements totalled $13.5
million corresponding to the foreign exchange component.
5.    The project adequately carried out a comprehensive technical audit of the
petroleum prospectivity of the whole country and promoted open acreage to the industry
which among other things led to the launching of operations in 1991 of a new oil company
in the Sudanese Red Sea. The project also strengthened the Government of Sudan's
(GOS) technical capability in actively promoting open acreage through a well-structured
relinquishment mechanism and effective negotiating procedures. The technical audit of the
Sudan's own petroleum resource has enabled GOS to formulate an adequate power and
1/ The name Robertson Research International Limited of U.K (RRI) changed from Robertson
Group plc in 1988 to Simon-Robertson (SR) in 1991. For historical reasons, the company will be
referred to as RRI in this PCR.



- iii -
energy sector plan and pursue a strong strategy towards public and private investment in the
petroleum sector. The completed Oil and Gas Utilization Studies under the project
provided GOS with valuable options for local utilization of discovered oil and gas reserves
in the country. Furthermore, the beneficiaries' institutional capability was strengthened
through extensive training programs for well qualified geologists, geophysicists and engineers
and investment in laboratory and other equipment.  Lastly, the mineral exploration
component which was included in the project during the latter part of the implementation
period helped in the production of valuable mineral inventory map sheets. It also assisted
GOS in formulating its basic strategy towards exploration and development of Sudan's
mineral resources.
Conclusions. Findings and Lessons to be Learned
6.    On the whole despite a difficult political environment, as well as the advent of the
Gulf Crisis in 1991, this proved to be a successful project. Nevertheless, it is important to
note that at present there is little active interest by international oil firms in Sudan, and the
full benefits of the project will be known only when they begin to draw on the information
and human skills developed by the project. This is likely only when a broader sense of
political stability evolves in Sudan.
7.    While actual exploration by oil companies will depend on external factors such as
the success of the country's economic stabilization efforts and on improved political climate,
the project generated basic geological and geophysical data and developed a local skill base
in petroleum and mining, which are likely to have a long term impact on the country's
development.  It also developed the country's capability to negotiate with foreign oil
companies and oversee their activities.



SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity:
Name          =      Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.    =      1513-SU
RVP Unit      =      Africa Region
Country       =      Sudan
Sector        =      Energy
Subsector     =      Petroleum
2.       Background
2.01     The Sudan is the largest nation in Sub-saharan Africa, encompassing some 2,505,813
square kilometers, approximately one million square miles. Much of the country is very
sparsely populated and there is relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much
of the country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural
development. The Agricultural sector contributes roughly 40% of GDP. About two-thirds of
the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, a major
commodity from  irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum  arabic.   The
manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing agricultural commodities
such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to production of consumer goods and building
materials. Sudan is also modestly endowed with energy resources, in relation to its large area.
Oil has been discovered in commercial quantities and significant additional reserves of oil and
gas are believed to exist. It has been a traditional, but relatively small-scale producer of
chromite and gold.
2.02     During the period between 1972 to 1975, Sudan was faced with a balance of
payment problem. The crisis was largely the consequence of inadequate economic management
policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased cost of petroleum
imports, which constrained Government's ability to respond quickly with effective remedial
action. In addition, the rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially because of
the steep rate of international inflation.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1513-SU) for which this is the
completion report, was the first IDA operation in the petroleum sector in the Sudan. The
project was designed to assist the Government in defining and implementing sector strategy that
would reduce Sudan's heavy dependence on imported oil.



3.02     The project was identified during the visit of an IDA mission to Sudan in May 1983.
An appraisal mission visited Sudan in February 1984, and found that the project was suitable
for financing. The Credit was negotiated in June 1984, approved in July 1984, signed on
December 7, 1984 and became effective on March 18, 1985. The delay between approval and
effectiveness was due to delays in domestic ratification procedures such as obtaining the legal
opinion on the credit documents.
3.03     Project Objectives:  The objectives of the project were to strengthen the national
petroleum administration, support the Government of Sudan's (GOS) efforts to promote the
exploration for hydrocarbons, and to help address issues that had been raised by the discovery
of oil and gas in the country.
3.04     Project Description: The project consisted of the following parts:
(a)     technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy and
Mining, including the provision of resident experts,
training, equipment and other facilities;
(b)     an exploration promotion component, including gravity
field surveys and technical studies (320 man-months),
an updated interpretation of Sudan's petroleum geology
and a detailed assessment of the petroleum potential of
Sudan;
(c)     oil and gas utilization studies; and
(d)     mineral exploration and mining development strategy
component.
4.       Proiect Design and Organization
4.01     The project was designed to support sector objectives described in paragraph 3.03.
All relevant parties shared and understood these objectives. It was clear to all concerned,
especially those involved in project implementation, that the project would: (a) help GOS to
attract and increase foreign private oil company participation in the petroleum exploration; and
(b) enhance GOS' knowledge in the use and development of the country's petroleum resources.
The timing, scope and scale of the project was appropriate in light of these goals despite slight
disagreements between the GOS and the technical consultants, Robertson Research International
(RRI), regarding: (a) the technical consultant's proposals to re-evaluate completely the existing
analysis and interpretation of oil companies operating in the Sudan (RRI argued that the re-
evaluation could serve as the GOS' independent audit to assist in future promotion of
relinquished acreage); and (b) GOS' plan to procure a large quantity of computer equipment to
assist them in processing and reprocessing large volumes of seismic data (GOS recommmended
extensive computer hardware investment which RRI considered unjustified). After extensive
discussions, all parties concerned agreed to have all of the data generated by the foreign oil
companies which had operated or planned to operate in the Sudan completely re-evaluated. It
was also decided that the investment in computer equipment be reduced to a more justified and
economic level.



-3-
4.02     The project was designed to be implemented for a period of three years after which
time the promotion of open acreage in the Red Sea and the Northwestern Sudan would start.
4.03     To ensure effective project management, IDA recommended the establishment of a
project group reporting to a Joint Operating Committee (JOC), which included representatives
from Geological Research Authority of Sudan (GRAS)2/, General Petroleum Corporation
(GPC), Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, and the National Energy Administration
(NEA)3/. The JOC was headed by the Director General of GRAS who was also responsible
for the daily operation and management of the project.
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     Implementation.  Project implementation was generally satisfactory except when
GRAS failed to fully utilize the expert assistance of RRI for the final selection/contract
negotiations for petroleum exploration promotion contracts. GRAS negotiated and awarded a
contract, which IDA did not finance, with a Swiss corporation (PANOCO) for the Sudanese
Red Sea Suakin acreage without seeking adequate advice. As a result, the Swiss contractors
failed to properly carry out the required seismic work which caused extended delays in the
scheduled exploration activities and a new contract had to be negotiated with International
Petroleum Corporation in 1991.
5.02     In 1986, a mid-project budget review was undertaken by GRAS to relocate the
Resident Adviser of the technical project management unit from Khartoum to RRI's head office
in the U.K.  The action was taken due to the following reasons: (a) there was lack of interest
by the petroleum industry in undertaking promotion work in the Sudan; (b) funds originally
intended for the Resident Advisor were reallocated to activities associated with promotion of
open acreage; and (c) the Resident Adviser's participation was urgently needed by the project
management team in the U.K. for the preparation of technical evaluations of open acreage in
the Sudanese Red Sea and Northwestern Sudan.  The relocation of the Resident Adviser,
however, partly affected access of GOS to essential technical assistance especially when it
needed prompt advice on matters pertaining to exploration contract negotiations with oil
companies seeking acreage.
5.03     During the initial project implementation period, GPC expressed its intention to
initiate the development of several small black oil discoveries made in the Muglad and Melut
Basins by Chevron, the major operator in the Sudan. The discoveries at Abu Gabra, Sharaf,
Adar and Yael were appraised by Chevron. GPC wanted these reserves to be quickly and
independently audited to help determine: (a) whether these could be developed to produce crude
for direct combustion in regional power plants that were running at very low capacity due to
lack of fuel supplies (diesel and fuel oil); and (b) whether there were good prospects for the
development of three refineries (at Bentiu, Muglad and Kosti, respectively) with a total capacity
2V The Geological Research Authority of Sudan (GRAS), successor to the Geological and Mineral Resources Department
(GMRD) of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), is responsible for policy matters in the mining and petroleum
sectors, for the collection, storage and management of technical data, and for negotiations with and monitoring of oil
companies.
3/ The National Energy Administration (NEA) was created in May 1980 as the planning organ of MEM.



-4-
of either 15,000 or 22,000 barrels per day. With respect to the refinery proposal, GPC
recommended a study program which would consist of: (i) reservoir analysis of marginal fields;
(ii) design of refineries; (iii) transport and distribution; (iv) crude transportation; and (v)
economic analysis. GPC requested assistance from IDA to finance the studies. However, IDA
pointed out that the proposed study program was designed too narrowly (only considering the
refinery option), did not take into account likely resource constraints and seemed to approach
the issues in the wrong sequence with the economic analysis last. In addition, GPC was vague
as to the likely relationship of any refinery investment projects to Chevron as concession
holder, and also as to whether or not the projects were dependent on an export pipeline. For
these reasons, IDA declined to finance from the Credit the proposed study program (apart from
the mini-refinery study which was covered under RRI's technical assistance contract with
GRAS), but IDA supported the technical/economic analysis to identify Sudan's alternative
options for utilizing the crude oil resources and to develop investment priorities. As a result,
GPC did not pursue their original study program.
5.04     RRI completed the mini-refinery study during the last quarter of 1985. The study
concluded that although proven reserves were found in the Abu Gabra and Sharaf discoveries in
the Adar/Yale structure, the reserve levels were too small and that further drilling would be
necessary before a development program could be recommended. It was also concluded that
careful economic studies should be undertaken in order to determine the viability for
commercial exploitation of these fields.
5.05     In a letter dated August 24, 1987, GOS requested assistance from IDA for the
evaluation and promotion of mineral resources. The principal components of this request were:
(a) the compilation of mineral inventory map sheets using as a base the geological maps of
Sudan prepared under the existing project; and (b) the preparation of strategy for exploration
and development of mineral resources. The work inter alia included a review of the role of the
public sector institutions, the mining law, investment taxation and incentive regimes. IDA
agreed that prospects for mineral sector development appeared promising, especially for gold,
and responded positively to an initial proposal that funds from Petroleum Technical Assistance
Credit 1513-SU be used for the promotion of mineral resource development. IDA, therefore,
amended the Credit Agreement on November 29, 1989 and reallocated about US$550,000
(SDR420,000) for this purpose. Inasmuch as the amendment was minor and did not severly
alter overall project objectives, the change did not require Board approval.  It was also agreed
that the existing consulting contract with RRI be amended because RRI had ready access to
much of the relevant data and had years of experience working with GOS. The proposal for
the contract amendment with RRI was discussed and was found acceptable by IDA.
5.06     Proiect Risks. One of the risks stated in the appraisal report was the possibility that
the prospects uncovered by the surveys and studies may not attract companies to enter into
exploration contracts. Based on the results of the evaluation and studies conducted under this
project, the areas identified were indeed inherently prospective. Unfortunately, international
exploration and production companies were reluctant to participate in extensive exploration
activities and to invest in the Sudan due to the political instability resulting from the change in
government in 1989 and the on-going civil war. Consequently, despite commercial discoveries
in the south of the country and in the Red Sea there is still no commercial production of
petroleum.



-5-
5.07     Project Cost. The estimated total cost of the project at appraisal was about US$13.3
million of which US$1.3 and US$12.0 million was financed by the Borrower and IDA
respectively. While local costs remained stable, the final foreign cost was US$13.5 million.
Total financing of IDA expressed in US dollars was higher than estimated because the value of
the US dollar in comparison to the SDR (in which the Credit was made) depreciated during the
life of the project. A comparison of the project costs, as estimated at appraisal and actual
costs, is shown in Table 5 of Part III. Project Financing is also detailed in Table 5.
5.08     Allocation of Credit Proceeds.   The original allocation of funds and final
disbursements for the loan are shown in Table 3 in Part III. As stated in para. 5.05 above, the
mineral exploration component was included in the project in 1989 and approximately
US$550,000 was reallocated to finance this additional component of the project. The Credit
was formally closed on June 30, 1992 and an undisbursed balance of SDR 43,591.48 was
cancelled on May 8, 1992.
6.       Project Results
6.01     The objectives of the project as described in para. 3.03 were successfully achieved
through: (a) an independent and comprehensive evaluation of the petroleum prospectivity in the
Sudan; (b) completion of essential studies on oil and gas utilization; and (c) strengthening of the
petroleum sector administration through a management reorganization study for GRAS and
successful completion of formal professional and participatory training abroad of laboratory
managers, supervisors and engineers of the relevant agencies under MEM.
6.02     The mineral exploration component which was undertaken during the latter part of
the project implementation (paras 5.04) achieved the following: (a) compilation and preparation
of selected pilot mineral inventory map sheets using as a base the geological map of the Sudan
prepared for the completed petroleum evaluation by RRI; and (b) review and analysis of the
role of the public sector institutions, the mining law, investment taxation and incentive regimes
which assisted GOS in its formulation of a mining exploration and development strategy.
6.03     An achievement of the project was the completion of the technical audit on the levels
of Stock Tank Oil Initially in Place (STOIIP) and reserves at the Chevron Unity/Talih complex
in the southern part of the Sudan. Other smaller discoveries in the Chevron acreage were
evaluated in the audit. The exploration potential of contiguous areas was also evaluated. The
consultants advised that further exploration in the Chevron acreage was warranted, particularly
those areas away from the dangers of civil war. In the acreage formerly held by Sun Oil six
wells were drilled, one well had encouraging shows of oil but no commercial production has
been established.  Although these areas were identified as good prospects for further
exploration, the government has not yet made any effort to promote them.
6.04      The Suakin gas-condensate discovery in the Sudanese Red Sea was also fully
evaluated. The reserve determination demonstrated 3OBCFG of proven reserves of wet gas to
be present, with a much greater potential for additional possible and potential reserves through
further drilling would be needed to confirm such potential. Gas Initially in Place (GIIP) could
speculatively range up to about 3 TCF but the recovery of these reserves greatly depends on the
most effective mechanism developed for this purpose. It was decided that the Suakin gas-
condensate discovery and contiguous acreage should be promoted to the industry.  RRI,



- 6 -
therefore, recommended a comprehensive promotion campaign including: (a) preparation of a
promotional brochure to be mailed out to prospective oil companies; and (b) promotional
meetings with oil company executives in Houston and London. These recommendations were
carefully evaluated by IDA and GOS and it was agreed that the most economic way to conduct
the campaign was the distribution of brochures to prospective oil companies.  This effort,
however, was not very successful because there was minimal response from the industry. This
initial lack of success in promotion was not followed-up by the consultants and GOS.
6.05      The project provided GOS with valuable information to assist in its petroleum
campaign to promote the northwestern Sudan and the Sudanese Red Sea to the industry. As a
result, part of the Sudanese Red Sea was licensed to the International Petroleum Corporation.
The work program of International Petroleum Corporation has, however, ceased in the northern
portion of these two contract areas due to the ensuing border dispute with Egypt. Discussions
between government and several oil companies concerning possible exploration in Northwestern
Sudan were also undertaken although no contract has been signed at this time. GOS, however,
decided to develop for its own account a few small discoveries in the northwestern Muglad
basin which was relinquished by Chevron but RRI was skeptical with respect to the commercial
viability of these discoveries. These conclusions by the consultants regarding the economic
viability of local development of Chevron's small discoveries should be revisited in light of the
increasingly common practice of installing pre-fabricated, skid mounted modular designed mini-
refineries under such circumstances. Both the length of time for design/fabrication/installation,
and the economics of such installation have radically changed with this innovative methodology.
6.06      Project Impact.   GOS' commitment to private investment in hydrocarbons
exploration was reinforced by the project.  The project provided GOS with the following
benefits: (a) enhanced negotiating skills on exploration promotion activities; (b) strengthened
ability to effectively monitor the operation of foreign oil companies; (c) increased awareness of
the Sudanese technological environment vis a vis the petroleum and mineral sector; and (d)
boosted understanding and knowledge of the potential benefits of geological field mapping
results as an important tool to be utilized in the further development of its mineral resources.
6.07      Institutional Strengthening. Scientists of GRAS and GPC participated extensively in
the execution of various tasks during project implementation.  Various comprehensive and
formal technical training schemes within and outside Sudan were al so conducted under the
project. These aspects of the project helped strengthen the nationall|etroleum administration.
It would have been more beneficial, however, if formal training had also been provided to
middle management staff of GRAS, and if there had been stability in the upper management
staffing. The Director General incumbency changed at least twice during the life of the project,
with considerable time being lost during each change.
6.08      Rate of Return. The project was not designed to yield a specific rate of return.
Government, however, gained marginally from the project as a result of the sale of reports
which amounted to about US$331,000. The project also indirectly provided employment
benefits when it employed various local staff during project implementation (i.e. various cooks,
drivers, helpers, laborers, etc. were hired by GRAS during the extensive geological and
geophysical field work).  Foreign oil companies such as PANOCO  of Switzerland and
International Petroleum Corporation of Dubai injected hard currency into the Sudanese



-7-
economy when these firms hired local skilled and unskilled personnel and funded various
training schemes.
7.        Project Sustainability
7.01      As previously discussed, the project provided a suitable foundation for GOS to
continue its work in promoting petroleum and mineral exploration prospects in the Sudan.
However, two basic issues could affect sustainability of the results of the project. (a) The civil
war in the south very much affects the most prospective area for exploration. The companies
which have been active there, particularly Chevron, withdrew when several expatriates from
one of the service companies were killed while on location. The return of the industry to this
area will not occur until the civil war is settled, and peace, law and order return to the area.
(b) The positive impact of the proposed stabilization program and of the economic policy
reforms needs to be felt.
8.        IDA's Performance
8.01      IDA involvement in this project began when an identification mission visited Sudan
in May 1983. Throughout the project, IDA was able to make a positive contribution to the
development of the sector during a period which experienced a change in government and
reorganization of sector management responsibilities. IDA also quickly responded to the urgent
sector objectives of the Borrower when it favorably endorsed the approval of an Advance from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of about US$190,000 in May 1984 for an independent
evaluation  of the Suakin discovery, a discovery made by Chevron in the Red Sea and
subsequently acquired and evaluated by Total.  The study confirmed the existence of
hydrocarbons and recommended the drilling of at least one additional well to evaluate the
discovery. IDA facilitated the appointment of consultants to undertake other preparatory work
for the proposed Petroleum Technical Assistance Project/Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project.
8.02      Supervision missions of at least twice a year between 1985 to 1988 were conducted
by IDA (Table 8) to: (a) evaluate the technical results of the project; (b) perform the running
audit of all project finances; and (c) analyze and discuss matters which affected the smooth
physical implementation of work and proposing appropriate action to resolve these issues. The
ratio of supervision to Preparation/Appraisal was 2.9:1 (79.2 staffweeks of supervision against
27.6 prior to Board Approval).  Such intensity of supervision contributed considerably to
project success.
9.        Borrower's Performance
9.01      Government was the Borrower and GRAS was the implementing agency. Table 7,
Part III, contains a review of the performance of the Government and GRAS in complying with
the covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Borrower's compliance with
covenants was satisfactory except for: (a) delay in completion of the core storage facilities; (b)
delays in submission of required audited project accounts because of the borrower's weak
project filing and financial tracking system; and (c) the Government's effective refusal to accept
the services of a petroleum negotiations advisor during its negotiations with Panoco and other
companies interested in obtaining exploration and production rights in Sudan.



- 8 -
9.02      During project implementation, the Borrower appointed project counterparts who
worked efficiently with the consultants. The support needed was provided to IDA by the
Government and GRAS during project preparation, appraisal, revision and supervision.
10.       Project Relationship
10.01     IDA's relationship with the Borrower on the project was good.  Good rapport
prevailed, adequate liaison and communication was established and maintained under the project
between the IDA, Government and consultants, and to the extent possible appropriate advice
was considered.
11.       Consulting Services
11.01     Technical.  Technical assistance of about 320 man-months was provided by
consultants (RRI). The consultants satisfactorily completed the following tasks: (a) designed,
supervised and implemented a first order triangulation net and associated gravity surveys of
hitherto unknown areas; (b) collated, interpreted and evaluated past exploration data and
proposed and published new geological map sheets of the entire country; (c) identified
prospective areas and potential hydrocarbon bearing structures; (d) prepared reports on the
petroleum potential of Sudan together with area reports as required; and (e) promoted the
prospective area to attract interest in oil companies.
11.02     Studies. The technical assistance provided for various specific studies (fable 6-C)
concerning sector policies, crude oil evaluation and gas utilization. The studies which were
completed between 1985 and 1986 are as follows:
(a) Suakin Study - an independent and comprehensive petroleum
geological, geophysical and engineering evaluation of the Suakin
structure in the Sudanese Red Sea;
(b) Sudan Study: Geochemical Well Report - identification of oil resources
in Sudan;
(c) Gravity and Magnetic Studies - analysis of potential field data of the
Interior Basins;
(d) Sudanese Red Rea: Gravity and Magnetic Studies - identification of the
basement topography over the continental shelf area in Tokar Delta;
(e) Geochemistry Current Studies - analysis of source rock and some
migrant oil stained samples;
(f) a complete, modern, landsat imagery-based geologic map folio of the
entire country; and
(g) a 3-volume report on minerals development as follows:



-9-
Volume 1 - Review of sector institutions, mining activity, exploration
and development strategy and proposed strategic plan for the sector;
Volume 2 - Review of the legal and commercial aspects of mining
investment in Sudan; and
Volume 3 - Trial 1:250,000 scale mineral inventory programme over
four selected mapsheets (including mineral inventory thematic maps).
12.   Project Documentation and Reporting
12.01     The DCA contained adequate provisions for achieving project objectives aimed at
developing the sector through comprehensive institutional support and effective exploration
promotion operations. The appraisal report for the project provided a useful framework for
review of project implementation by both the Bank and the Borrower.  Quarterly reports on
the progress and status of various activities which facilitated assessment of project performance
were regularly sent to IDA.
12.02     RRI prepared a project completion report (Petroleum) dated April 6, 1992 and their
evaluation of project implementation and outcome has been reflected in Part II of this PCR.
Minerals Exploration Promotion Project reports were presented by RRI to IDA and the
Borrower in November 1992.
13.       Conclusion. Lessons Learned and Follow-Up Action
13.01     The Government was able to use almost the entire credit (97.1%) to finance the
required tasks under the project.
13.02.    During project implementation, there was a change in the government resulting in
the reorganization of the petroleum sector in 1985 with the removal of the Minister, Vice-
Minister and Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Energy and Mines and the Managing
Director of General Petroleum Coporation of Sudan (GPC)4/. The "Gulf Crisis' in 1991 also
affected project implementation on the minerals component when the consultants were forced to
pull out from the country.
13.03     These risks were not apparent when the project was appraised.  When the
government reorganized the petroleum sector in 1985, IDA strongly advised that the
organization of the sector was not fully satisfactory.  IDA, therefore, recommended the
implementation of organizational changes at GPC in order to help strengthen the sector. IDA's
recommendation, however, was not immediately addressed by GPC because GPC argued that
previous organization studies were already undertaken and these were not yet acted upon. IDA
nevertheless kept the issue on the table and regularly discussed with GOS other action plans for
I/ The General Petroleum Corporation (GPC) is Sudan's national oil company, and is associated with GMRD (later GRAS)
in the negotiations with and monitoring of oil companies. GPC also controls the distribution, allocation and pricing of
petroleum products, and a department of GPC operates the products pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum.



- 10 -
strengthening the organization of GPC.  Ultimately, training and other technical assistance
programs financed by the project subsequently helped overcome the perceived weakness of the
institution, without the need for a reorganization.
13.04     Other events which have affected project results include: (a) the poor macro-
economic situation in Sudan; (b) the current civil war; and (c) the political instability in the
country. These incidents have negatively affected the inflow of foreign capital for promotion
and exploration activities for both petroleum and minerals.
13.05     The sustainability of the accomplishments of the Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project in the long run will depend, to a large extent, on the government's continuing success
in implementing its program  of stabilization and macro-economic reforms.  The reform
program can provide one of the necessary incentives for increased foreign investment.
Furthermore, a permanent cessation of the civil war in the South is essential for the exploitation
of the country's petroleum  resources.   Lastly, the government needs to address the
recommendations made by the consultants regarding the mineral sector before significant
investments are made.
13.06   The main findings and lessons to be learned are:
(a)  Although comprehensive formal training was provided under the project to
technical staff of the borrower, the same should have been done for the
borrower's middle management staff;
(b)  IDA, apart from  ensuring that qualified accountants with petroleum
experience were retained by the borrower, should have also examined the
adequacy and proposed appropriate modifications in its project monitoring,
disbursement processing, filing and financial tracking systems system so
that delays encountered by IDA in receipt of annual audited reports for
project resources and expenditures would have been minimized and/or
avoided;
(c)  during project preparation, IDA  was correct in its optimism  about the
country's potential for discovery of exploitable hydrocarbon reserves, based
on encouraging shows of oil in areas which had been explored.
(d)  the effort and expense which was put into the expansion and organization of
the basic geologic and geophysical data base of the country is likely to have
a long term positive impact; and
(e)  the independent review of Chevron's exploration history and methodology
in the South of Sudan, as well as a formal reserve determination of the
discoveries was aimed to allow the government to make a focussed,
effective promotion to selected industry representatives.  In addition, by
having studied the methodology of Chevron's efforts, the consultants have
opened up many exploration conceptual types of plays which Chevron has
not tested.  However, now  that Chevron has withdrawn from  Sudan,
probably permanently, the foreign-based knowledge of what they have



- 11 -
discovered, how much reserves are in each field, what the required
conditions for economic production will be, etc., have become permanently
outside of the Government's reach and, therefore, beyond their ability to
make use of this information. The insistence of IDA and the consultants on
making an independent study of these discoveries, and developing a second
opinion of their value, will allow the Government to act on its own with the
idea of having the fields developed along lines which will promote political
harmony, rather than improvement in the financial rate of return for the
operator.



- 12 -
SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part 11 of this PCR has been prepared by staff of the Borrower, MEM and its implementing
agencies, GMRD, now GRAS, and GPC, and with the permission of the Minstry of Finance and
Planning.
ACCURACY OF PART I OF THE PCR
Project Background
Whilst agreeing that the current civil war undoubtedly affects GOS' plans to develop the Sudanese
economy, it is fair to point out that there are large areas of the northern Sudan unaffected by any
insurgency where economic investment can take place safely.
Project Objectives and Description
GOS has felt that an important objective of projects of this kind is to present an opportunity for
GRAS and GPC staff to participate on a technically well-conceived petroleum exploration project
such as this one. This has a beneficial effect on staff morale contributing to employee stability.
Proiect Design and Organization
The consultant has noted that the training program failed to adequately address management-
oriented training for senior staff of GRAS and GPC. This should have been done.
Project Implementation
The project involved a great deal of surface geological and geophysical surveys in extremely
remote parts of the Sudanese Sahara. GOS was extremely cooperative in the supply of travel
passes, fuel permits to the project. There were no delays to project implementation.
Project Relationship
Despite the change in the relationship between GRAS and the GPC and the shift in project control
away from GPC, their role was vital. Because of chronic fuel shortages in the Sudan, the field
surveys could have been delayed if GPC had not arranged for the project to receive large
quantities of diesel and gasoline prior to field work.
As a result of technical work carried out in the project, in particular the construction of the 1:1
MM scale geological map of the Sudan, GRAS felt that the groundwork had been laid for an audit
of the minerals potential of the Sudan. IDA was very supportive of this notion and moved rapidly
to supply the technical support and to modify the DCA.
Lessons
The main lesson from the project is that the IDA's Supervisory Missions can provide a
profoundly beneficial impact on the timeliness of overall project implementation and its quality.



- 13 -
EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
The Borrower's own performance through the life of the project is felt to be good.
-  A management team was implemented to supervise the project from the
Borrower's perspective.   There was good coordination between the
Borrower, IDA and the consultant.
-  Changes of project emphasis were promptly implemented.
-  The Development Credit was almost fully (97%) disbursed.
It is felt that the original project did not concentrate on strengthening of middle management
sufficiently. In future projects this task should be strengthened by more on-the-job and formal
management-style training.
IMPACT OF PROJECT
Recent petroleum discoveries in the southern part of the Sudan have meant that the country could
be a net exporter of hydrocarbons.  This export should generate foreign currency and help
ameliorate the country's acute balance of trade deficits. In the Sudanese Red Sea an unappraised
gas and condenstate discovery awaits delineation drilling.
In order to implement an orderly short- and long-term development of the economy as a whole
(and of the energy power/petroleum in particular) GOS needs to be informed about the magnitude
of its hydrocarbon resources. GOS need to know the magnitude of discovered reserves of oil and
gas at the proven and other levels and in addition to have an evaluation of the exploration
potential of the under- or unexplored portions of the Sudan (the magnitude of the undiscovered
resources of the country). All of these need to be coupled with an understanding of the various
options open to GOS for the best utilization of its resources either by state or domestic and
foreign private capital investment.
Micro-economic effects of project on the Sudanese Economy
The project has provided Government with an audit of its petroleum natural resource. This will
enable the MEM to advise Government on its strategy for the exploration for and development of
these resources and for planning an orderly development of the petroleum sector in its overall
macro-economic context. The audit has and will materially assist the Government to place a
value on its acreage.  It has strengthened its ability to negotiate effectively with foreign oil
companies seeking acreage. In addition, the Government has been provided with the tools to
oversee petroleum activities in its national territory. It is now in a position to effectively monitor
all E & P Operations.
In addition to the technical results of the project listed above, the sector administration has been
strengthened through participation, formal training and upgrading of facilities.



- 14 -
Macro-economic effects of project on the Sudanese Economy
The Government is now properly equipped to decide the technical and economic aspects of all of
its petroleum policy options including:
- Licensing of open and relinquished acreage to foreign oil companies for
exploration.
- Hydrocarbon production for local use in power-generation and mini-refining.
- Production for export and foreign currency revenue generation.
- Production for self-sufficiency, local refining and exportable surplus.
EFFECTIVENESS OF CONSULTANTS
The performance of the consultants has been effective.  They have provided GOS with the
technical audit of its resources needed.  The consultants have outlined the various energy
utilization options available to GOS.
Tlhe technical audits have been effective in assisting GOS to promote its open acreage and to
negotiate with FOC's operating in the Sudan.
Follow-up work in connection with a similarly structured Minerals Exploration Project is urgently
needed.



- 15 -
SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1513-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Te Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1513-SU) was the first IDA operation
in the petroleum Sector in the Sudan.
Table 2. Project Timetable
Date Planned        Date Revised         Date Actual_l
Identification      May, 1983                                May, 1983
Preparation                                                  Jul. 1983
Appraisal Mission    Jan. 1984                               Jan. 1984
Negotiation         Jun. 1984                               Jun. 1984
Board Approval     Jul. 31, 1984                             Jul. 31, 1984
Credit Signature    Dec. 7, 1984                             Dec. 7, 1984
Credit Effectiveness  Oct. 1984         Mar. 18, 1985        Mar. 18, 1985
Credit Closing      Jun. 30, 1989       Jun. 30, 1992        Jun. 30, 1992
lCredit Completion    Jun. 30, 1988       Jun. 30, 1992       Jun. 30, 1992
Table 3. Credit Disbursement (US$ 000)
Bank Fiscal Year         Appraisal            Actual         Actual as % of
Annual Cumulative  Annual Cumulative  Appraisal Estimate
1985         2,000    2,000      3,498    3,498              29
1986         5,000    7,000      4,198    7,696              64
1987         3,000   10,000      2,634   10,330              86
1988         2,000   12,000      2,302   12,632              105
1989                 12,000        128   12,760              106
1990                 12,000       283   13,043               109
1991                 12,000       296   13,339               111
1992                 12,000        236   13,575              113



- 16 -
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators             A|                     d
Oil and gas utilization study                      Completed in 1984
Technical evaluation of Suakin gas                 Completed in 1984
condensate discovery
Suakin promotional brochure                        Completed in 1984
Preliminary evaluation of suakin gas market        Completed in 1984
Evaluation of Abu Gabra/Sharaf/Adar/Yael           Completed in 1985
discoveries
Training                                           Completed in 1992
Purchase, installation, of major laboratory        Completed in 1987
items and other equipment
1: 1,000,000 scale geological atlas of the         Completed in 1988
Sudan
Evaluation of the Sudanese Red Sea                 Completed in 1988
Evaluation of NW Sudan                             Completed in 1988
Evaluation of the reserves at Unity Field          Completed in 1988
Evaluation of Chevron and total acreage            Completed in 1988
Evaluation of the Sun Acreage                      Completed in 1988
Formation evaluation manuals                       Completed in 1988
Sudanese Red Sea and NW Sudan                      Completed in 1988
promotional brochures
Promotion of Sudanese Red Sea and NW               Completed in 1988
Sudan
Petroleum exploration promotion project            Completed in 1991
close out report



- 17 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ 000)
ApDraisal Estimate            Actuall
Loal   Forignl    Total  Local   EFreign  Total
A. Assistance to the
Ministry of Energy and  930    4,080    5,010
Mines
B. Exploration Promotion   140    5,170    5,310
C. Oil and Gas Studies      20      410      430
Baseline Costs      1        20 9Q   10.750            12.991
D. Contingencies           110      650      760
Physical            100    1,160    1,260
Price
E. PPF Refinancing         -        530      530              584
Total           1,300   12,000   13,300           13,575
B. Project Financing (US$ 000)
Sources                  Planned                    Actual
lLocal    Eorign   Total  Local   Eorn   ToQta
IDA
Civil works                      248                       19
Vehicles and equipment           962                       806
Consultant's services and
training                        8,396                   12,166
Refunding of PPF                 527                       584
Unallocated funds               1,861                       0
Tota                    12.000   -12.000         13.575
GOS                       1,300     -       1,300
Total            1,300  12,000    13,300         13,575
Note: Actual local cost data is not presently available.



- 18 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators              Appraisal Estimates    Actual at Completion
No. of new companies attracted for           N/A                     2
exploration                          ___
Financial benefit by the sale of reports     N/A                US$ 330,885
generated under the project
No. of professional staff received           N/A                    42
training
B. Economic Impact
[                           l     Appraisal Estimate    |Ac
Economic Rate of Return               N/A                         N/A
C. Studies
Title                 Purpose           |                         ImDc
Suakin Study      Conduct an independent and    Completed in     Provided information
comprehensive petroleum       1986.            for exploration.
geological, geophysical and
engineering evaluation of the
Suakin structure in the
Sudanese Red Sea.
Sudan Study:      Identify oil resource in Sudan.  Completed in  Provided information
Geochemical                                     1988.            for exploration.
Well Report                                                                           l
Gravity and       Analyze potential field data of  Completed in  Provided a guide to
Magnetic Studies  the Interior Basins about NW  1988.            future studies about
Sudan.                                         NW Sudan.
Sudanese Red     Identify the basement          Completed in     Provided a guide to
Sea: Gravity and   topography over the          1986.            future studies about
Magnetic Studies  continental shelf area in Tokar                the area.
Delta.                                                             l
GeochemistrY      Analyze source rock and some  Completed in     Provided data and
Current Studies    migrant oil stained samples.  1985.           research results on
four Interior Basin
l______________________________  _________________   W ells.



- 19 -
D. Training
|   Discipline                No. of Staff Received Training
Tectonics/Mapping Structural Geology                     7
Reservoir Studies                                        4
Seismic Studies and Computer Studies                     5
Potential Field Geophysics                               4
Geochemistry                                             3
Laboratory Geochemistry                                  1
Biostratigraphy                                           1
Sedimentology-Well Logging                               3
Lab. Management/Supervision, Analytical                  3
Chemistry, Maintenance
Biostrat. Lab. Management                                2
Core Lab./Core Analysis                                  1
Carto./Reprographics                                     2
Training Related Visit by Senior Staff                   3
_____ W



- 20 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement                          Status of Compliance
3.01(c)  The Borrower shall, by 12/31/1987,          Compliance.
exchange views with IDA on the contents of the
programs to be undertaken for the promotion of
petroleum exploration.
3.01(d)  The Borrower shall, by 6/30/86, exchange    Compliance.
views with IDA on the results of the project studies.
3.01(e)  The Borrower shall deposit into the         Due to GOS foreign currency
GMRD's special account all proceeds arising from the   shortages, funds from the sale of
sale of reports produced under the project.          reports were largely used to
finance training in foreign
universities.
3.01(f)  The Borrower shall, by 12/31/1985,          Compliance.
commence the construction of the well core storage   Construction was completed in
facilities in Khartoum North.                        January 1992.
3.01(g)  The Borrower shall, by 12/31/1987, prepare   Compliance.
for the long term training program and ensure its    Training program was on-going
implementation.                                      until 1992.
3.03(a)  The Borrower shall insure the imported      Compliance.
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery.
3.03(b)  The Borrower shall cause all goods and      Compliance.
services financed out of the proceeds of the credit to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the project.
3.04(a)  The Borrower shall furnish to IDA the       Compliance.
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the project.
3.04(b)  The Borrower shall maintain records on      Compliance.
proceeds; enable IDA's representatives to visit the
facility and construction site; furnish project
information.
4.01     The Borrower shall maintain records on      Withdrawal applications were
project resources and expenditures; and furnish the  adequately filed but the project
annual audit report.                                 filing system was felt to be weak.
Audits were carried out but audit
reports were not promptly
submitted.



- 21 -
Table 8. Use of IBDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
1984   1985    9       1987            1989             = M I    2    _QW
Preparation    1.3                       _                                               l
Appraisal     18.4   ___
Negotiation    5.7     2.2       ====_
Supervision    =      18.5    15.3   19.9   13.8    5.7    2.0    0.2    3.8  _
Total         25.4   20.7    15.3   19.9   13.8    5.7    2.0    0.2    3.8   106Q8j
B. Missions
Stan of       Month/Year   No. o    Days in         Specialization     Performance
Project Cycle                 Persons  Field         Represented a/      Rating b/
Identification   May 1983         2        10     Geol, Eco
Appraisal       Jan. 1984         4         8     Geol, Eco, FA, Geoph
Post-Appraisal   Nov. 1984        4         5     Geol, Geoph, Eco, FA
Supervision     May 1985          4         4     FA, Geol                      1
Supervision     Jul. 1985         3         4     FA, Geol, Leg                 1
Supervision     Dec. 1985         3         4     FA, Geol                      1
Supervision     Jan. 1986         2         5     FA, Geoph                     2
Supervision     Sep. 1986         3         5     Eng, FA, Geol                 1
Supervision      Dec. 1986        1         5     Geol                          1
Supervision      Apr. 1987        3         5     FA, Eng, Leg                  1
Supervision     Jul. 1987         2         7     Eng, Leg                      1
Supervision      May 1988         1         7     Geol                          1
Supervision     Jun. 1988         1         7     Eng                           1
a/ Eco=Economist, Eng=Engineer, FA=Financial Analyst, Geol=Geologist,
Geoph=Geophysicist, Leg=Legal Specialist/
k/ 1 =Problem free or minor problems; 2=Moderate problems.



