Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3753-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 11.6 MILLION (US$12.0 MILLION) CREDI'
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit       =       Sudanese Pound (LSd)
LSd 1.00   =       US$0.77
US$1.00    =       LSd 1.30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GMRD       =       Geological and Mineral Resources
Department
GPC        =       General Petroleum Corporation
MEM        =       Ministry of Energy and Mines
NEA        =       National Energy Administration
NEC                National Electricity Corporation
PSR        =       Port Sudan Refinery
WNPC       =       White Nile Petroleum Corporation
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl        =       barrel
BD         =       barrels per day
GWh        =       gigawatt hour
kgoe       =       kilograms of oil equivalent
KW         =       kilowatt
LPG        =       liquid petroleum gas
MMCFD      =       million cubic feet per day
MT         =       metric tons
MW         =       megawatt
NGL        =       natural gas liquids
TCF        =       trillion cubic feet
toe        =       tons of oil equivalent
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1     -    June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            : Democratic Republic of Sudan
Amount              : SDR 11.6 million
(US$12.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary         : The Ministry of Energy and Mining
Terms               : Standard
Project Objectives : The project would strengthen the national petroleum
administration, support the Government's efforts to
promote the exploration for hydrocarbons, and help
address issues that have been raised by the discovery
of oil and gas in the country.
Project               The project includes:
Description
(a) technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy
and Mining, including the provision of resident
experts, training, equipment and other
facilities;
(b) an exploration promotion component, including
gravity field surveys and technical studies (320
man-months), an updated interpretation
of Sudan's petroleum geology and a detailed
assessment of the petroleum potential of Sudan;
and
(c) oil and gas utilization studies.
Benefits              The project would enhance the capacity of the
petroleum sub-sector organization, help determine the
existence of potentially significant sedimentary
basins and help attract foreign capital for intensive
exploration work in areas that have been relinquished
and other areas not yet contracted out to private
companies. The oil and gas studies would attempt to
resolve the uncertainty concerning the potential for
using Sudan's oil and gas resources to meet its own
energy needs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks                  One of the project's risks is that the prospects
uncovered by the surveys and studies may not be
attractive for companies to enter into exploration
contracts. Given the results of past explorations,
this risk is considered acceptable. Since the surveys
will be located in the north of the country, they
would not be affected by the recent security problems
in the South. Local unrest could make Sudan less
attractive but is unlikely to stop exploration.
Estimated Costs
US$ Thousand
Local Foreign Total
A.  Assistance to the Ministry of
Energy and Mines
(1)  Contract Economics                       15        180    195
(2)  Contract Monitoring                      15        240    255
(3)  Data Collection                          10        140    150
(4)  Resident Advisor                        200        640    840
(5)  Promotion                                20        530    550
(6)  Training                                 40        920    960
(7)  Vehicles, Laboratory Equipment
and Other Facilities                610      1,210  1,820
(8)  Organization Study                       20        220    240
Subtotal                 930      4,080  5,010
B. Exploration Promotion
(1)  Sedimentary Basin Mapping                15        360    375
(2)  Gravity and Magnetics                    50      1,400  1,450
(3)  Seismic Studies                          20        630    650
(4)  Geological and Well Studies              20      1,825  1,845
(5) Data Interpretation and
Exploration Potential Assessment        5        185    190
(6)  Project Administration                   30        770    800
Subtotal                 140      5,170  5,310
C.  Oil and Gas Studies                              20        410    430
BASELINE COSTS                             1,090      9,660 10,750



-- iii -
US$ Thousand
Local    Foreign    Total
D. Contingencies
Physical                                     110       650        760
Price                                        100     1,160      1,260
Subtotal                 210      1,810      2,020
E.  PPF Refinancing                                 -         530        530
TOTAL COST                                   1,300    12,000    13,300
Financing Plan:
IDA                                             -     12,000    12,000
Government of Sudan                          1,300        -       1,300
Total                  1,300    12,000    13,300
Estimated Disbursements:             FY 85      FY 86       FY 87     FY 88
Annual                      2,000     5,000       3,000      2,000
Cumulative                  2,000     7,000      10,000    12,000
Rate of Return:           N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
Maps                      IBRD Nos. 18059 and 18102






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan for SDR 11.6 million (US$12.0
million equivalent) to help finance a Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission vislted Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
("Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$460 (1982 Atlas methodology)._/  Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d will be constructed, and export
is expected to commence in 1987. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
1/ Based on the official exchange rates for the period 1978-1980/81.
Based on the exchange rate as of November 15, 1982 of LSd 1.00 =
US$0.769, per capita GNP for 1981/82 would have been about $278.



enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments situation. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
tlae deficit to over US$900 million. A further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficit of US$809
m:illion in 1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves
have fallen to only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external
payments arrears had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces --
reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and
absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices a:nd the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981/82.  The
decline was concentrated in cotton; this occurred because of a shift from
cotton to other crops and aLso because of falling cotton yields.  The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline,, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over
100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to



- 3 -
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.
8.         The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion has slowed in succeeding
years, the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged
nearly 25 percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again
rose to around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in
1982/83 by around 30 percent.  This contributed to an acceleration in
annual price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent
in the past two years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have
been for social and community services, transfers to local government, and
general administration. The sharp increases in general administration
expenditures were due in large part to rising wages and salaries of
civilians in the central government, cost of living subsidies and
extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues have
increased over the past few years but since the tax system is relatively
inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with frequent new
tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the relative
contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.         Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, to
restore export growth through appropriate policies and public investments,
to improve the performance of the public corporations, and to install an
adequate system for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.        In June 1978, a stabi'lization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.        In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a



- 4 -
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11; (ii) removal of budgetary subsidies
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii) measures
designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion.  These measures,
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible in the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of the Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 = US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (see
para. 18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this
Meeting, together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the
Paris Club in February 1983 (see para. 17), enabled the IMF to approve a
Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million. The terms
of a new Standby Arrangement for 1984 have been agreed between the
Government and the IMF staff, and has recently been approved by the Fund's
Board, subject to payment of all arrears owed to the Fund.  In May, 1984
the Paris Club again etgreed to reschedule Sudan's official external debts
falling due in 1984 on te!rms which were consistent with the proposed IMF
Standby Arrangement.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 50 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 25 percent increase, and the total seed cotton
production is now close to 85 percent of the original target in the Export
Action Program. Several investments in the irrigated subsector are
supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be
carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit
1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects
for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, is currently underway. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provides much needed foreign
exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the sub-sector. In
addition, several policy measures have been taken in the areas of cost
recovery, cotton marketing, and institutional reform.



- 5 -
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the Government prepared the first Three-Year
Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81. This
Program has been updated three times; the latest investment program,
covering the period 1983/84-1985/86, was incorporated into the updated
medium-term recovery program presented to the Consultative Group Meeting
held in December 1983.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. The Government has abolished a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in agriculture and
replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational
reforms have also been implemented in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. During the past year the Government has substantially increased
the prices for products of public corporations to improve their financial
positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1983 amounted to around US$8.0 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1984 exceed US$1.0 billion. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. A new
unit, the Directorate for External Finance, is now being established,
directly linked to the Minister of Finance's office, to remedy this
situation and will be supported by a technical adviser provided by the IMF.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981, A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "External Finance
Coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to



Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with a six-year grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
were made with the commercial banks and other creditors.  More recently,
the Paris Club met and agreed to reschedule Sudan's 1984 payments on a
basis similar to that agreed in 1983.
New Recovery Program
18.       In October 1983, the Government issued a new medium-term recovery
program entitled Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic
Development: 1983/84-1985/86.   In addition to a  realistic three-year
public investment program focused on economic recovery, primarily through
rehabilitation of the export sector and economically efficient import
substitution (especially in sugar), this document contained macro
projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term nature of the
recovery process and a set of short and medium term policy objectives
covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand management,
resource allocation and external resource mobilization.
19.       At the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on December
14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program, as well as debt relief through
rescheduling. At this meeting, the Government was commended by many donors
for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its recovery program. If
the Government builds on the progress which has been made by staying within
the terms of the IMF Standby Arrangement which has just been approved,
keeping the exchange rate realistic, continuing to encourage agricultural
output by maintaining adequate price levels for crops, and by adhering to
i=ts announced development strategy for the next several years, a slow but
steady improvement in the balance of payments situation can be anticipated.
PART II  - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$949.5 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 35 credits for a
total of 38 projects. Twenty one projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; a livestock marketing project; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, three education projects, three highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industrial credit
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.



- 7 -
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Largely as a result of these problems, the
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU of June 24, 1977) has had to be
redesigned into a much smaller pilot project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976)
encountered serious delays and cost overruns and has had to be terminated.
There have also been lengthy delays in meeting effectiveness conditions,
mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions or project
accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation, or
concluding required co-financing arrangements. These problems have been
brought to the attention of Government authorities, and steps have been
taken to resolve some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal
opinions.
22.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but in FY82 the
rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent. The FY83 disbursement rate was
25.8 percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4
percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a Standby Agreement
with the IMF (para. 12). This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing an updated version of the recovery program for
1984/85-1986/87 and in chairing another Consultative Group meeting in
December 1983. In broad outline, this program concentrates Government
resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital investments,
particularly those which can contribute to expanding export earnings, while
restraining investment in new projects. At the project level, IDA has
continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's
major export earner, plus improvements in infrastructure needed to service
the agricultural sector. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit
1000-SU of April 4, 1980) was effective in providing badly needed spare
parts and replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, as well as
encouraging the Government to take some important steps toward improving
incentives to farmers through better cotton prices and costing arrangements
for the irrigated schemes, and the Second Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up this earlier effort with the



- 8 -
financing of recurrent agricultural inputs. We will continue to
concentrate IDA lending on the agricultural sector and critical
infrastructure during the period ahead, with proposed projects in
agricultural research and ex-tension, agricultural recurrent cost financing,
and electric power.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
24.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
onLy about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR2/
Resources Potential, Production and Demand
25.       Sudan is modestly endowed with energy resources, in relation to
its large area. The country has a productive forest area of about
500,000 sq. km, but this resource is distributed unevenly between regions
and provinces.  Commercial energy resources are limited to hydroelectricity
and the recent discoveries of oil and gas. The Nile and its major
tributaries represent the most important resource for hydroelectric
development in the Sudan.  The hydroelectric potential is limited due to
the low river gradient and high development costs. The total technical
hydroelectric potential of the country is about: 2,000- 3,000 MW, of which
only a small portion has been developed.  Oil has recently been discovered
in commercial quantities. Significant additional reserves of oil and gas
are expected to be found, if the exploration efforts undertaken over the
past three years can be maintained. Sudan receives high insolation, which
could be a valuable energy resource when appropriate technologies are
developed.
26.       In 1981, Sudan's final consumption of primary energy was 6.1
million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Fuel wood, charcoal and biomass
provided 82 percent of final energy consumption, while the balance 18
percent was provided by imported petroleum and hydro. The per capita
energy consumption (about 324 kgoe) is comparable to that of similar
developing countries. Imported petroleum accounted for 95 percent of
comimercial energy consumption (excluding fuel wood and charcoal), while
hydro accounted for only 5 percent. The largest consumer of commercial
energy was transport (62 percent), followed by industry (17 percent) and
agriculture (10 percent). Total electricity generation was about 1,000
GWh, NEC's total generation capacity (1982) was 311 MW, of which 160 MW
was hydro and the rest thermal. Privately installed generation capacity is
estimated to be about half the capacity of NEC. For the country as a
2/ This section is based in large part on the Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment
Report on Sudan (July 1983).



- 9 -
whole, per capita consumption of electricity in 1981 was about 60 Kwh, but
only about 8 percent of the population had access to a public supply.
27.       Petroleum.  Sudan's petroleum requirements are met entirely
through imports of crude oil as well as refined products. In value terms,
the petroleum imports grew from LS 6.7 million (5 percent of total imports)
in FY73 to LS 162.8 million (21 percent) in FY81; in the latter year, they
would have been substantially larger in the absence of foreign exchange
restrictions and import controls. In FY81, petroleum product re-exports
amounted to LS 17.6 million, and consisted mainly of fuel oil produced by
the local refinery (see para 33).
28.       Net of refinery losses, total sales of refined products in FY82
were slightly above 1 million MT; gasoil accounted for 50 percent of total
petroleum consumption, gasoline for 20 percent and fuel oil for 18
percent. During the 1970s, the consumption of petroleum products recorded
an increase from about 670,000 MT in 1970 to about a million MT in 1980 or
of 4 percent per annum. The growth in the consumption of gasoline and
gasoil, however, was well above this average rate, reflecting the rapid
growth of the transport sector during the decade. On the other hand, the
consumption of fuel oil and kerosene either declined or grew only slowly;
this reflects in part the restrictions on supply availability for these
products.
29.       Assuming a modest economic growth rate of 2 percent per annum
through 1986 and then 3 percent per annum through 1996, and an
elasticity of 1.5 for the aggregate final demand of petroleum products
(excluding electricity generation) with respect to GDP growth, Sudan's
petroleum products requirement would be 1.3 million toe for 1986, 1.6
million by 1991, and 2.0 million by 1996. Product composition could
change, however, with the demand for gasoline dampened through more
emphasis on public transport and a greater restraint on the growth of
private transport. The petroleum import requirements would be partly
offset by the export and/or domestic use of the Unity-Talih crude
(para. 43) and the offshore Suakin gas field if reserves are confirmed
(para. 50). In the longer term, the prospects for additional
discoveries are reasonably good given sufficient Government exploration
promotion and adequate security. The proposed project would, inter
alia, promote the exploration for oil and gas in Sudan.
Energy Sector Administration
30.       General.  The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) has the
overall responsibility for policy formulation in the energy sector and
regulates the activities of institutions operating in the sector. MEM
suffers from resource constraints and low public service salaries, which
discourage qualified professionals. There is also no integrated system
for controlling all on-going activities and projects within MEM and
several recommendations have been made under the Bank/UNDP Energy
Management Assistance Program to make MEM more effective. A National
Energy Administration (NEA) was created in May 1980 as the planning
organ of MEM. NEA receives substantial technical assistance, financed



- 10 -
by USAID. NEA is now in the process of preparing Sudan's first energy
plan, which should be ready towards the end of 1984.
:31.       The Geological and Mineral Resources Department (GMRD) of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines is responsible for policy matters in the
mining and petroleum sectors, for the collection, storage and management
of technical data, and for negotiations with and monitoring of oil
companies. Negotiations with companies are coordinated through a
steering committee of concerned ministries and agencies, which makes
recommendations to the Minister concerning the awarding of contracts.
GMRD is divided into two divisions, the Mineral Resources Administration
and the Petroleum Administration, with the latter employing eight
geologists and three geophysicists. In 1983,/84, the overall budget for
GMRD was LS 1.1 million (US$837,000 equivalent). Although one of the
oldest establishments in Sudan, GMRD has not yet had much experience in
petroleum matters. It needs to be strengthened in contract economics,
monitoring, assisted in developing a long term strategy for development of
the petroleum sector, and in compiling, and analyzing and evaluating all of
the geological, geophysical and well completion data provided by oil
companies. The now somewhat overlapping activities and functions of GMRD
and the General Petroleum Corporation (GPC), which is the country's
national oil company (see para 33), is a result of the limited qualified
technical personnel available in the country and because the more
experienced professionals are with GPC, which is in the position of paying
better salaries. The Government would like to study this aspect further so
that their roles are properly defined and has requested that funds for such
a study be included in the proposed project. In the meantime, staff of
both GMRD and GPC will be involved in the proposed project but the main
beneficiary will be GMRD which will continue to be responsible for policy
miatters, including the formulation of the petroleum sector strategy.
32.       Another organization under the MEM is the National Electricity
Corporation (NEC). Its main responsibilities include the construction,
management and operation of the power facilities of the national grids and
the Khartoum distribution area. The administration of forest land is the
responsibility of the Central Forest Administration. However, many forest
operations are the responsibility of the provincial forest services.
33.       Petroleum Sector.  There are three public corporations operating
in the petroleum sector:
(a) The General Petroleum Corporation (GPC) is Sudan's
national oil company, and is associated with GMRD in the
negotiations with and monitoring of oil companies. It has
a carried (non-paying) interest (normally 10 percent) in
most current exploration contracts, and has also built up
a core cadre of petroleum exploration and production
personnel. The corporation also controls the
distribution, allocation and pricing of petroleum
products, and a department of GPC operates the products
pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum. (The actual
distribution of petroleum products is carried out by four



- 1I -
private companies, but the market share of each is
determined by the allocation of petroleum products to them
by GPC);
(b) The Port Sudan Refinery (PSR) started operations in 1964,
and is now owned equally by the Government and Shell. The
refinery is managed like a private sector enterprise and
is well run. However, for technical reasons, its output
pattern does not correspond to that of domestic product
consumption; as a result, fuel oil at present is exported
while Sudan has to import substantial quantities of
petroleum products;
(c) The White Nile Petroleum Company Limited (WNPC) is a newly
formed corporation which will own the proposed pipeline
from Chevron's Unity-Talih oil fields (para. 43) to a Red
Sea terminal. The Government equity stake in the Company
(42 percent) is expected to be funded from a loan from Saudi
Arabia. Other partners include Chevron, IFC, Shell and the
Arab Petroleum Investment Corporation.
Sectoral Objectives and Issues
34.       Sudan's present economic crisis is in no small measure due to the
crippling energy shortages that have affected the productive sectors during
the past few years. There are some encouraging signs for the short-and
medium-term energy supply; thus, power shortages are likely to be relieved
during FY85 with a 60 percent increase in installed capacity, and domestic
crude could possibly augment petroleum supplies and export earnings as soon
as the proposed pipeline is completed.
35.        Oil and Gas Utilization.  The discovery of crude in the southern
part of Sudan, the construction of an export pipeline and the discovery of
gas in the Red Sea area have made certain options available and raise some
issues as well. Under the contract with Chevron and at a production level
of 50,000 bpd, the net crude available to the Government may amount to a
little over 17,000 bpd and provide Sudan with the alternatives of: (a)
setting up a topping plant at Kosti, and (b) utilizing part of the
indigenous crude at the Port Sudan Refinery, together with imported crude.
36.       The discovery of oil and gas also raises major issues concerning
investment strategy in the power sector, given the impact of fuel imports
on the balance of payments and given the high cost of developing
hydroelectric capacity in Sudan. There is also the option of developing
the gas found in the Red Sea area (Suakin) for power generation at Port
Sudan and other areas. The Red Sea gas could also be used as a feedstock in
the urea fertilizer plant. Another option that needs examination is the
construction of a bitumen plant, since all bitumen is currently imported
into Sudan, and Sudan produces a surplus of residue at its refinery from
which bitumen can be made. The proposed project includes studies that will
attempt to provide the Government with the information and assistance
needed to help resolve issues raised by the discovery of oil and gas in the
country.



- 12 -
37.       Energy Pricing.  During recent years the average tariff of NEC
has been inadequate to meet its financial requirements. It has recently
implemented substantial tariff increases, but further increases will be
needed to help finance NEC's investment program and to achieve a
satisfactory rate of return on assets. The present tariff is below the
long--run marginal cost for power, although at USc1O/kwh for low voltage
supply, it is among the highest in Africa.
38.       The prices of petroleum products are fixed by GPC in accordance
with Government policies. There has traditionally been a reluctance to
pass onto consumers the full delivered costs of these products.
Significant price increases took place in 1981, 1982 and early 1983, but
these were partly offset by a concomitant devaluation of the Sudanese
pound. However, these actions underlined the Government's intention to
minimize or eliminate the subsidies on at least some petroleum products.
This was confirmed through further substantial price increases in December
1983, when Khartoum retail prices were increased by between 17 percent (for
kerosene) and 70 percent (for fuel oil). As a result, the official prices
to consumers are above economic costs (CIF imporl: value, transport and
distribution) for gasoline (about 140 percent), slightly below costs for
gasoil and kerosene, and significantly below economic cost for diesel and
fuel oil. Thus, while the average weighted petroleum prices are above
economic costs, there is a need1 for further increases for some products
(although a special case could be made for kerosene, due to its social
importance and its impact on fuel wood consumption).
39.       The US Agency for International Development (USAID) is assisting
Sudan's National Energy Administration in developing a comprehensive energy
pricing policy in the context of the first national energy program that is
expected to be ready in draft later this year. These questions will also be
addressed in the context of IDA's projects in the transport and power
sectors, particularly as far as diesel and fuel oil are concerned whose
prices are below economic costs. The pricing of transport fuel is being
addressed under the Third Highway Project which includes a credit covenant
providing for (a) completion of a Transportation Cost Review by the end of
December 1984, and (b) subsequent maintenance of appropriate fuel prices.
With regard to fuel oil used mainly for power generation, the Association
expects to consider with the Government of Sudan the upward revision of
fuel oil prices in connection with the proposed Plower IV Project. USAID is
also assisting NEC in carrying out a power tariff study.
40.       Allocation of Petroleum Products.  The distribution of petroleum
products is inefficient due to allocations and quotas caused by foreign
exchange shortages. There is no satisfactory way of quantifying the impact
on the economy of energy shortages and allocation problems, but it is clear
that these are very important. Also, prices now paid by Sudan for its
petroleum exceed world market prices. Accordingly, regular supply and a
more rational allocation and distribution system for petroleum products are
questions of high priority for Sudan. Efforts led by USAID are now under
way to arrange substantial additional financing for crude oil imports in
the context of the establishment of a petroleum fund that would provide
financ:ing for the purchase of Sudan's imported petroleum requirements. IDA



- 13 -
has been consulting with USAID, the IMF and other agencies on ways to
support the establishment of the fund which is expected to save the
Government over US$30-50 million this year on a total petroleum import bill
of US$360 million.
41.       Investment.  There has been serious public underinvestment in the
energy sector. Between FY76 and FY82, public investments in the power
sector varied between US$3-11 million annually and averaged less than 5
percent of total public development expenditures.  Power investments in
this period never exceeded 0.5 percent of GDP3/. At the same time there
were minimal investments in the non-commercial energy sector; in
particular, the funding for forestry activities has been inadequate in
relation to the size of the forest resource and its rate of depletion. In
contrast to this low level of activity, international oil companies have
since 1975 spent over US$500 million for oil exploration, representing by
far the largest single investment in the energy sector. The only other
investment in the petroleum sector has been in distribution facilities.
42.       In view of the Government's budgetary and foreign exchange
constraints, a realistic public energy investment plan should be prepared
with a strict order of priorities. The IBRD/UNDP energy assessment report
provided a framework for such a plan, which is now under preparation by
NEA, assisted by its consultants. A draft of the plan, prepared with the
help of numerous Government working groups involving concerned ministries
and entities, is expected to be ready later this year.
43.       More recently, plans have also been drawn up, with IFC as one
participant, to build a crude oil pipeline to make early use of the crude
discovered by Chevron in the southern part of Sudan. Following extensive
analyses and further discoveries by Chevron, it was concluded that a
project based on an export pipeline would give the greatest economic
benefits and would be much easier to finance than an inland refinery.
Accordingly, in January 1983, GOS and Chevron signed an agreement for the
construction of a 1,440 km crude oil pipeline from the Unity-Talih oil
field to a coastal terminal to be located near Port Sudan. The pipeline
diameter would be 22" to 24", with an initial design capacity of 75,000
BD. By adding pumping stations, the capacity could be increased to over
100,000 BD. The current estimated cost is US$910 million. It would be
owned and operated by WNPC, while most of the financing would be arranged
through borrowings against the proceeds of crude oil exports. Chevron and
lFu are arranging the necessary financing. While the Government and
Thevron Sudan will be given priority, the pipeline will also be available
to transport oil tendered by other parties. The pipeline was scheduled to
have been ready for operation as early as 1986, but work on it has not yet
srarted. Once completed, the project will generate an average of US$170
million of net foreign exchange earnings a year, which is over one-third of
the receipts from all merchandise exports in 1982.
3/ Investment in the power sector, however, has increased subsequently,
e.g., NEC's Power III program (FY82-85) is scheduled to cost about
US$300 million.



- 14 -
Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
44.       Hydrocarbon exploration and production activities in Sudan are
governed by the Petroleum Resources Act of 1972, its 1973 regulations and a
1975 Amendment to the Act that provides for a production sharing type of
contract for petroleum operations. Ownership of hydrocarbons is vested in
the State who may enter into agreements (through GPC) under which foreign
contractors carry out exploration and production on behalf of the State at
contractor's risk in return for recovering costs and a share of profit out
of future production. Contractors are subject to minimum work and financial
obligations during the exploration phase. GPC does not participate in
exploration but has the right to acquire a negotiated percentage of State
participation (up to a maximum of 50 percent) upon commercial
discovery4/. Under recent agreements, the contractor recovers his costs
out of a maximum 30 percent of total crude oil production, the remainder of
which is split with the Government in accordance with a sliding scale. A
12.5 percent royalty is levied on total production and the contractor is
subject to a 50 percent income tax on his net profits.
Statuis of Exploration
45.       As the largest nation in Africa, Sudan has an area of 2.5 million
sq krm of which about 830,000 sq km may have potential for hydrocarbons from
what is known at present. The shelf area in the Red Sea, to the 200 m
water depth, is believed to contain an additional 20,000 sq km with
hydrocarbon potential, with more than 4,000 m of sediments in some places.
Annex IV discusses in detail the geology and status of exploration in
Sudan.
46.       Petroleum exploration in Sudan began in 1959.  In spite of the
exploration efforts of the last: 25 years, relatively little is known about
the geology and hydrocarbon potential of Sudan, particularly in the
northern part, compared to what is known in neighboring countries such as
Libya and Egypt. Since 1959, 76 wells have been drilled in the country;
twelve in the Red Sea basin and 64 in the south/central part of the
country. Results, especially onshore, have been favorable as oil and gas
accumulations have been successfully encountered or tested in about
one-third of the wells.
47.       At present three companies are exploring in Sudan: Chevron, Total
and Sun Oil. Chevron's licensed area covers 250,000 sq km in the three
main graben trends of Southern Sudan: The Muglad, Melut and Blue Nile
basins (see Map)5/. Chevron's first discovery was made in 1979, and since
then it has been carrying out a very active exploration program, and was
recently operating three seismic crews and drilling at the rate of 15-20
wells per year. However, following recent local unrest in the South,
Chevron temporarily suspended all field operations. While the company
4/ The contract with Chevron is a production sharing contract with no
provision for State participation.
5/ Recently, the Company sold 25 percent of its interests in Sudan
(including the pipeline) to Royal Dutch Shell as a farm-out.



- 15 -
since then has started up some limited activities in the northern part of
its concession, it is not clear when the security situation will improve
sufficiently to permit the company to. recommence normal operations.
48.       A group led by Total was granted in 1979 an area of 171,000 sq km
surrounding the acreage held by Chevron (see Map). This group is at
present carrying out aeromagnetic and seismic surveys, and has plans to
start drilling in late 1984. In 1981., Sun Oil acquired areas (218,000 sq
km) in the northwestward extension of the Blue Nile graben. Following an
aeromagnetic survey (jointly with Phillips, which has since withdrawn from
its own concession), the company now plans further geophysical work.
49.       Of the area considered at present to have hydrocarbon potential,
518,000 sq km are under permit, while approximately 312,000 sq km are still
open. However, these figures do not include substantial tracts of land
which are largely unknown from a geological point of view, and which would
be examined unider the proposed project.  Also, it is expected that out of
the area now under concession, close to 150,000 sq km would be relinquished
in the next 4-5 years. Thus, large areas would be available for promotion.
50.       One of the most attractive structures that needs to be promoted
is Suakin located in the Red Sea area. The Red Sea has been explored by a
number of companies, and several wells have been drilled, mostly with gas
shows.   One well (Suakin-1, drilled by Chevron in 1977) tested gas and
associated oil or condensate (520 API) at 6.9 MMCFD and 1,158 BD. Based on
about 1,000 km of new seismic and the reprocessing of 2,000 km of old data,
the oil company, Total, which had acquired the acreage, carried out a
comprehensive reinterpretation which gives a new structural picture and
shows the Suakin structure to be larger than previously expected.
According to this interpretation, the structure could contain recoverable
reserves of more than 0.5 TCF of gas and 40-100 million bbl of condensate
or light oil. However, additional work needs to be carried out on the
structure (including drilling of at least one well) to determine the nature
and extent of hydrocarbon reserves.
51.       Until the time Total relinquished the Suakin area, it had tried
to farm out part of its interest to various partners to complete its
contractual obligations. In exchange for 50 percent of the rights to the
permit, the farm-out proposal required the drilling of one well offshore on
Suiakin. Iotal was not successful in its efforts to farm out its interest
in Suakin, however, primarily because of the likelihood of finding mostly
gas. Xs a result, Total relinquished the area in November 1983. Total's
unwillingness to drill the well was basically because the Company decided
to concentrate all of its exploration efforts onshore, due in part to a
reduced exploration budget as well as because the onshore area promised
substantially larger returns to Total than Suakin.
52.       The Government, however, attaches high priority to appraising and
developing this discovery. From the Government's point of view, even gas
resources, if confirmed, would be a valuable domestic energy source which
could be used in power generation and fertilizer production after
conversion or modest adaptation of existing plants. Also, it could be



- 16 -
brought into production over a relatively short period of time and would
help alleviate Sudan's energy constraints until the income from oil exports
from other areas reach significant levels.
The Government Approach to Hydrocarbon Sector Exploration
53.       Petroleum exploration has been going on for some time, and oil
exports should begin once the pipeline is completed. The Government
intends to continue to rely on private companies for petroleum exploration
and development, and it would like to attract more foreign companies to
undertake petroleum exploration on equitable terms. While the pipeline and
related infrastructure will in itself be an incentive for further
exploration, large areas with hydrocarbon potential will have to be
promoted actively, and the Government should be equipped to promote, based
on the analysis of past exploration efforts, a good understanding of the
geological problems, and the evaluation of new data acquired on a selective
basis to encourage company interest. In order to implement such an
exploration promotion program, as well as monitor properly the exploration
and subsequently production contracts, the Government needs to strengthen
significantly the petroleum administration. Assistance is most urgently
needed to develop an updated understanding of the prospectivity of each
area and to process the information generated in the areas under contract
as a basis for contract supervision and assessment/approval of work
programs, development programs, and relinquishments. The Government also
needs assistance in defining a long term policy of petroleum development,
export and domestic utilization and to assess the need for Government
participation in future investments to ensure that Sudan's potential
petroleum resources are explored and exploited adequately.
IDA's Role
54.       The Bank Group's previous lending in the energy sector has
focused exclusively on the power sector through three loans/credits (US$112
million) for power generation, transmission and distribution. IFC is now
preparing a US$406.4 million investment proposal, including US$336.9
million in participations, for the export pipeline. An energy assessment
report was completed last year and follow-up on1 this report through the
Energy Management Assistance Program has begun.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
55.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA
mission to Sudan in May 1983 and appraised in February 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington during the period June 4 to 6, 1984. The Sudanese
delegation was headed by Dr. E.A.A. Zaki. A credit and project summary
appears at the beginning of this report, a supplementary data sheet is
given in Annex III, and a technical discussion in Annex IV. No Staff
Appraisal Report has been prepared.



-- 17 -
Project Objectives
56.       The proposed project would be the first for IDA in the petroleum
sector. It would primarily assist the Government in the definition and
implementation of a subsector strategy that would seek to reduce Sudan's
heavy dependence on imported oil. The Association's involvement in this
project would help the Government to attract and increase foreign private
oil company activity in petroleum exploration and development and in
improving the Government's knowledge and use of the country's petroleum
resources. Specific objectives of the project are to: (a) strengthen the
national petroleum administration; (b) support the Government's efforts to
promote the exploration for hydrocarbons; and, (c) help address issues that
have been raised by the discovery of oil and gas in the country.
57.       The exploration promotion objectives are not the same for the
open areas and those under contract with private companies. For the open
areas, the objective is to obtain information through the surveys and
studies so that the Government could assess the value of possible prospects
and use that knowledge to attract private companies for exploration. For
the areas under contract, the project work would improve the Government's
understanding of the petroleum geology and prospects of the various regions
and the country as a whole, and increase the capability of the Government
to monitor exploration and production contracts and deal effectively with
the International companies. In addition, the work on the areas under
contract would provide information on the adjoining open areas which could
then be promoted once they are relinquished over the next few years.
Project Description
58.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) Assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines
The component makes provisions for experts, training,
equipment and other facilities. Experts would consist of
exploration personnel that would reside in Sudan and other
experts that would visit the country occasionally to help
coordinate project activities, train local staff, assist with
contract economics and monitoring, and help with the
management of geological and geophysical data. Training
would be both of a formal nature and on-the-job, both in
Sudan and abroad. This component also provides for the
procurement of laboratory and other equipment, vehicles and
other facilities as well as the construction of storage
facilities to store well core samples. It would also
fund an organization study of GPC to help improve the
internal operations of this Company, as well as a study of
the functions and activities of GMRD and GPC. The terms of
reference for these studies were agreed during negotiations.



- 18 -
(b) Exploration Promotion
Under this component, consultants (320 man-months) would be
retained to help design and carry out gravity field surveys
and a number of geological and geophysical studies that would
provide the Government an independent and comprehensive
evaluation of the hydrocarbon prospects of Sudan.
(c) Oil and Gas Utilization Studies
Specific issues concerning sector policies and oil and gas
utilization would be addressed through special studies, which
would include a crude oil evaluation and a gas utilization
analysis and which would be coordinated with future studies
on power development. The terms of reference for these
studies were agreed during negotiations.
A detailed description of the Project is given in Annex IV.
Project Implementation
59.       The project will come under the responsibility of the Geological
Mineral Resources Department (GMRD) in the Ministry of Energy and Mining.
A group consisting of representatives from GMRD, GPC, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning and the NEA will be formed that would help
implement the project. Actual establishment of this group will be a
condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01, draft Development
Credit Agreement). It will report on project implementation to a joint
operating committee consisting of representatives of, inter alia, GPC,
GMRD, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the National Energy
Administration and headed by the Director of GMRD. The local staff will be
assisted by a firm of qualified exploration consultants, who would
establish an office in Khartoum for the duration of the project, headed by
a senior geologist/explorationist. The signing of a contract with qualified
consultants satisfactory to lDA would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 5.01, draft Development Credit
Agreement). It is likely that the Government will be able to sell some of
the reports/data generated during project implementation.  The Government
has; agreed that the proceeds of any such sales would be placed in a special
account of GMRD and used only for further investments in the petroleum
sector (Section 3.01(e), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government has also agreed that not later than December 31, 1987 the
Government and IDA would discuss the programs f-or the promotion of
exploration based on the technical work done by the consultants and by June
30, 1986, the conclusions and recommendations of the organization and gas
and oil studies (Sections 3.01(c) and (d), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Status of Project Preparation
60.       The preparation of the technical assistance component of the
project was financed with an advance of US$340,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility that was approved in July 1983. A further PPF advance



- 19 -
of US$190,000 was granted on May 23, 1984, to finance a technical
evaluation of existing data pertaining to the Suakin structure. Earliest
possible completion of this evaluation is important to obtain a clearer
understanding of the potential and options resulting from the Suakin
discovery and to develop a rational scenario and strategy for its
promotion, appraisal and eventual development.
61.       The geological, geophysical and well data needed for the studies
have already been identified and a detailed work program drawn up to be
carried out over a period of three years. Building space has been set
aside for the laboratory and other facilities required under the project.
Preliminary plans for storage of well core samples have been drawn up for a
hangar-type structure to be located on an identified Government lot in
Khartoum North.  Because of its importance, the Government has agreed to
commence construction of the building, in accordance with plans
satisfactory to IDA, not later than December 31, 1985 (Section 3.01(f),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       The Government and the consultants have already identified the
staff to be trained under the project, and a detailed training program has
been drawn up, based on the Government's requirements and the
qualifications of its staff. The details of the program are described in
Annex IV. For most of the participants, the program would consist of a
broad introductory program in petroleum exploration, followed by
specialized courses. There would also be training for technicians such as
laboratory and core store supervisors. The well-conceivcqd nature of the
training program should ensure that it will have a beneficial effect on
Sudan's petroleum administration. It would need to continue, however, on a
more permanent basis. Hence, during negotiations, it was agreed that a
longer term program will be drawn up by December 31, 1987 and implemented
by qualified and experienced personnel (Section 3.01(g), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
63.       The detailed work program and costs for the gravity survey have
been worked out based on the use of vehicles rather than airplanes or
helicopters, which would have been more expensive. The design of the
gravity survey calls for 1,000 stations in the Gedaref district, 500
stations in the area northwest of Khartoum and about 5,600 stations in the
northern Darfur regions. While the consultants would manage and coordinate
the survey, staff from GMRD and GPC would be used extensively in order to
impart training on a large scale and also contain costs. The Association
will be informed of any change in design or location of the survey.
Project Costs and Financing
ID4.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes which are
not applicable, is estimated at US$13.3 million. (A detailed breakdown of
the costs is provided in Annex IV). The local costs consist of counterpart
staff, administration, right-of-way for survey crews, laboratory
conversions, the construction of a new core storage and the costs of
maintaining the office of a resident advisor for a period of three years.
The gravity survey has been calculated at an average cost of US$175 per



- 20 -
station (plus mobilization), which is reasonable compared to similar
surveys elsewhere. A detailed list of the equipment to be acquired has
been prepared, and the list was agreed upon during project appraisal. The
cost of training is high (US$4,200 per trainee man-month), but is justified
by the specialized nature of the training, which involves a considerable
amount of both theoretical and on-the-job training closely supervised by
senior experts. The costs also include travel and living expenses abroad
of Sudanese personnel. The cost estimates include physical contingencies
of 10 percent for civil works and equipment, and 5 percent for services,
and price contingencies of 8 percent per annum for 1985 and 9 percent
thereafter, Total contingencies amount to US$2.0 million, representing 19
percent of baseline cost, or 15.2 percent of total project costs.
65.       The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project, amounting to US$12 million (90 percent of total
costs). The credit will be made to the Government who would then channel
it to MEM. The local project costs of US$1.3 million equivalent would be
financed by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       The equipment and supplies to be financed under the technical
assistance components oE the project are relatively small items (less than
US$200,000 per contract and US$1 million in aggregate), for which
international competitive bidding would not be suitable. All equipment and
supplies to be financed under the project, therefore, would be procured on
the basis of price quotations from at least l:hree qualified suppliers. The
construction contract for the core store facilities (US$600,000) would be
awarded following local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable
to the Association. The Government has decided to retain Robertson
Research International (U.K.) as its exploration consultants. This firm is
highly qualified for the task and has considerable experience in Sudan.
The signing of a contract with the exploration consultants satisfactory to
IDA would be a condition for credit effective!ness. All consultants will be
selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants, and
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements would be made against up to 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 50 percent of local expenditures for civil works and 60
percent of locally procured vehicles and equipment. The proceeds of the
credit are expected to be disbursed within four years after credit
effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
6;7.      MEM would require the consultants to submit semi-annual work
programs that would be discussed with IDA, as well as annual audited
accounts for its expenditures under its contract with MEM in a form
satisfactory to IDA. MEM would also keep separate project accounts which
would be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Ministry and the
Association, and the audit reports would be submitted not later than six
mcnths after the close of the fiscal year (Section 4.01(c), draft



- 21 -
Development Credit Agreement). To help them with the accounts, as well as
to monitor the expenditures of oil companies, MEM will retain qualified
accountants with petroleum experience. The Ministry would also submit a
project completion report not later than six months after the closing date
(Section 3.03(d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       The main benefits of the project would be an independent and
comprehensive assessment of the petroleum potential of Sudan, the
definition of an appropriate strategy for the exploitation of Sudan's
petroleum resources, the strengthened management of the sector, and the
implementation of a promotional campaign to attract more private
exploration interest than would otherwise be available, and on appropriate
terms in view of Sudan's petroleum potential. Any ensuing hydrocarbon
discoveries could have a significant impact on the country's economy.
69.       Several companies are already actively exploring for petroleum in
Sudan. The short-term risk of the technical assistance components (no
interest from companies on geological grounds) is therefore negligible.
The longer term risk (no discoveries of exploitable reserves) is low in
view of Sudan's petroleum potential and the discoveries that have already
been made.   The present local unrest in the South is not likely to affect
implementation of the project since the field surveys under the proposed
project would take place in the northern part of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Sudan and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on petroleum technical assistance projects. Special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III to Annex III to this
report.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement to the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 19, 1984



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
T A 8 L E  3A                                           PAG E 1
SUDA3                    - SOCIAL INOICATO.IS OArAS SET
SUUAN                                    REFERENCL CKVUPS (WEIlGiTEU AVERAGLS) ia
'lOST                       (KjST KC9NT 6Sr[MATE) lb
b  RECENT   bLO  INCOME                        MID2L  1.COML
19bC/b       1970-  ESTINlATF,-       AfRICA S. Vf SAnARA        AFKICA a.  f SAhL\RA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. I)
TOTAL                                 2505.8       2505.6       2505.8
AGKICULTURAL                           671.8        677.0        684.2
GON  PR CAPITA (US$)                      15V.0        190.0        380.u               2b4.b                      1147.9
ENEIGY IDIISUMPT1O  PER CAPITA
(KILOGiDUtS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         58.U        170.0        101.0               79.3                        724.2
POPULALTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,KILLYEAR (THOUSANDS)   11228.0         13U49.U      19242.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           10.3         16.4         25.i                19.5                        28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION 1N YEAR 2000 (HILL)                                  33.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                                  111.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IQI.                           4.5          5.5          7.5               .19.5                       56.5
PER SQ. K.4. AGRI. LAND               16.7        20.5          27.3               94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7.)
0-14 YRS                            43.7          43.7         44.2               45.0                        45.9
1S-64 YRS                            53.2         53.4         53.0                52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3.1          2.9          2.8                2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GKOOWTh RATE (7.)
TOTAL                                  2.0          2.1          3.0                2.8                         2.8
JREA                                   6.9          6.7          7.1                6.2                         5.3
CRUDE dSIRTI  RATE (PER THOUS)          46.5         46.7         46.t               47.9                        47.6
CeIUUE DEATH RArTE (PER THOUS)          24.5         22.1         16.3               19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION SATE                  3.3          3.l          3.3                3.2 2.2
FAMILY PLAIJN1I6
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..          ..
USERS (. OF MARRIED  OMEN)              ..          ..W
FOOD AID WiTRITION
.N0EX OF FOOD PROu. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           92.0       100.0        104.0                67.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          83.0         91.0       101.0                88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.0         66.0         69.0                51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANI:4AL AND PULSE           24.0        22.0         22.0/c              18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             40.1         32.4         20.8               25.7                        23.6
BEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTN (YEARS)           39.6         4i.8        46.o                47.4                        51.9
INFATr MORT. RATE (PER TROUS)          168.0       150.4        121.L               126.5                       117.b
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                              19.0        46.0/d              24.7                        25.4
URBAS                                   ..        61.0         49.67i              56.8                        70.5
RJURAL                                  ..        13.0          45.077             18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
S  TOTAL                                ..        16.0         22.U/e              26.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                65.7
RURAL                                   ..          ..           ..                21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33420.0      14060.0       8800.0             27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER XURSING PERSON              3030.0/f    1720.0        1410.0              3456.2                      2292.0
POP. PIR iOSelITAL BED
TOTAL                               960.Ofg      920.0/g    1010.0/c             1183.2                      1075.4
'JRBAN                              130.L.    190O.O         450.07E             380.6                       402.3
RURSAL                             4400.O/fIg  5120.0/gL&    1760.O/c            3177.5                      3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED               ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..         5.1
URBAN                                  ..          5.7/h
RURAL                                   ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROO0
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..         2.5/h
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..         26.4/h
RURAL                                   ..          ..



- 24 -
ANNEX I
T A   i L E  3A
3UA:-                      - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SlEE.
SL0'kD                                     REFrSEN(E CAROi!PS (WlIGHTED AVERA,Ei) /a
SJ 'AIS                      (w.47T AECcT   bSTITL) lb
RECEN-  rb           L..  INCOM.L                NIDDL. INC0oF
194U6-.      1A0'9 -  ZS7I'ATA -        AFRICA S. OF SASAnA        AFRICA S. OF SAAARA
EDUCATION
P R L.A;    bUA-                       25.3          3 .)          51..               63.9                         Y7.2
:,ALE                      35.u          .6.0         r u.v                73.o                        '03.1
F'UAL                     ,4.u         29.0          43.0                Sl.b                          SD.5
i__C . DARY:  TOTA,                ... 3.D       7.ou    l      .0                12.5                          17.2
x2.Ll .                      .. 5.0      1l.u         20.0                 16.7                         23.5
FEtL_ ...  I  .u4.0       1I.u                 3.1                          14.1
VOCAT1UNAL (7 OF SECJA;A.RY)               3.4           1.4/i        4.0/i,               7.3                          5.2
YFPIL-Tt AC,ILi .ATIC
PRLA"y                                L.1.0          47.0         34.                  46.4                         42.9
SECuNDARY                              20.u          17.U          20.U                25.1                         23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   L3.1         14.7/h        32.0                36.5                          37.1
coasutnoi
PASSESGER CARS/TIIOUSAND POP               ;.4           2.0           ..                 3.3                          18.8
RAJIO RECEIVERSfTROUSAND POP              L7.0/k       80.4          71.2                45.3                         97.8
TV RECEIVEAS/THOUSASD POP                  o.871-       3.2           5.6                 2.2                          18.6
NEiSPAPER (-DAILY LENERAL
INTEREST-) C7RCULAll0!i
PER ThOVSAIJO POPULATION                 4.4            ..           1.0                 4.7                         18.2
CINEMA A.NUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           0.9             ..          0.6                 1.0                           U.6
LA4R FDRCE
TUTAL LASOR FORCE (CHOUS)              3722.0        4544.0       60E6.0
FEMA1LE (FERCiNT)                       9.6          10.2         10.9                 34.j                         36.1
AORICULTURE (PERCiST)                  86.0          82.0          72.0                76.9                         56.8
I.DUSTRY (PeKCe6T)                      b.0 )         8.0         10.0                 9.8                          17.5
FAATICIPATION .iAfE (?ERCENT)
IOIAL                                  33.2          32.r         31.6                 40.9                         37.0
MALL                                   59.3          58.2         55.0                 53.0                         47,1
FSMAL,                                  5.4           6.8           7.0                28.9                         27.0
rCVNOMIlC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.64         l.4           l.5                 1.2                          1.3
INCOME DLSTRlBUTIlo
PE&CE.S' OF FRIVAT0' INCOME
dDCiLVEO SY
IGACREST 52 OF hU4SEROLDS              20.8/1.m        ..
RIG86EST 20% OF hOUSEliOLDS            50 1/1 a    49.2/n
LOWEST '20% OF dOUSEHOLDS               5:oT          5.i7..
L0OWEST 402 OF ROUSEIUOLDS             13.9/2,o      14.57..
POVErTY TUGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUrE POVERTY lNCOME
L.EVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
JRBAN                                    ..            ..        137.0/o              165.9                        534.2
RURAL                                     .o. ..                  8.O/e                87.4                        255.9
iSTItMATEL) RELATIVE PoVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     .,           ..        115.0/o             100.8                         491.5
RIJRAL                                    ..           ..         u o.o73             64.6                         288.2
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOnS LEVEL (2)
Ur'AN                                     ..           ..            ..               39.5
RURAL                                     ...          ..          5.0/e              69.0
.. 0  AVAILABLI
iot APPLICABLE
0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are pop.lacion-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries ameng che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data rfor 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970  bet-er. 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; fg Government hospital establishments; /h 1966; /i Beginning 1970, the duration of
general-secondary ed.cation was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /, Includes programs of 5 training centers operated by
Department of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by ttinistry of Youth and Sport; /k 1963; /1 1964;
/a Omdurman, urban; /n 1967-68; /o 1978.
mSay 1983



-25 -                                                                                   A.NNEX I
-ote     Alhog  fTe                re.  fa   soIoo*s generl t_  Isdie   oN  net        Ioo hotstesdrt161    oeota  ohaoto ttN sytt  stte,     oa
descrIbesodere  f asgootuds, to orate  reode, sd ott. sossols  cane to*.ajrtodtffeontoas botaco  't'.oo -ts           t
otfeos-oce grh-o-IdpL.
tOf  st   98  dta                                                                             Ppotttt  aoOtolot  Posoh-Pocctoo   tote bby ofbs  ofph                          tt.
strttttltors   - fattes. of s. oot I      rs   aot Prsffo   e.tsot                                    sl   ndfel    ros attt  Peastors
196,170 ad19   aa                                                                                      yplto    e  topt_td-toa,utt   oo   us       optstt   tol
1960,  1950. sod 1991 dat.                                                                                 b   ttatot 0,    oa     ea   .ses    rodlo    rnbptl   ti    a
tateerarot   otlded.root hopotls .odoret   tteod....c   soo...
_.bg   1%0, 1970  11   -1   -  -E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atalabo  tt 1t  rot ol tat  at  seoca  sotI2 stlO
ocP'Jcdz:oo 000 trIll. tf.ofttOlCS                                                               tr""ta Itos  hosp thaOs coi ue   ootudrttl
~rt o.o o-0 eto oa   e,- o  ofroO  0  191.   70.aM   OS                       Mstseooo  pa  hoap te  Be  -   tt  ostatof  osltlte   oorttsrtssA
fats,                                                                                                     to.hopoaeottsof  tetost  fbes
ff6.0 Ptolarloo Irceot Ct total  -P .db   of.   os   toIIP tots ' l  poph.otattoot.;-Y                                                                       --
tt   toarte   140   97. o_   98  dc.                                                                  tesIdtr  o  -eetttlorateto   cuso,th    ttl,utsP   odros
Poorstat-ho-  Pr sttt                                                                             ooeootttt    f Oot  fttlttaeut  etr    tot    ttat
.poroltlo   tts   00-Creoporltooposco                             r LNaso oooo 19`7.                   sd-' otI    t    ot. 0 ore.otoeosyo   a,totNltu                                    o
tooslpoatttt  y  ss550ee  sd   ottroort lhtfso  feolc o_hoacl   o    tolto                                                  upss
rots.  Prjeolos   aoast     ILLto   e -ts`t rI e   uplso   ts                              Oesoatto   eet  pttostt  .tN   sdrrlsoatrtt
terteseosho   lIeeseret  atI Stoto tItrootelno sot   totf    s                                      f Psoao     P.rtosI   l   roo    o _O     tupa.orot  o
Itlaboseltt.ad  oself   soopetota retlbt tit                          - at -7.5doo . too...                       reetol.te  bosso jd   oor  etoertoe
ytao.  Th  parao.ser  fot ttl Ity  IeNe                                                               C.oNr   toslitell.ttopac
asoig   slt   t   eclifstrdo    otote   ooe   o  ps   alt                                    ceetteotor _oeto   attst-  os,tta,sd  os 
plo q pa'or"'             It sooooor . e tie  ace    h.edto.  oftte    faCtottcltolto    toaetttft  tco   t  ct   spoecg
ttlaboo  f stlt   to1 fetit Ity oZI          o   rttitptpee.o   os     ta,adpos   at  oetepotst
dlost toat.  h r oeio-toitattsP   zopol-totttreI                         too
sosoe Pi                                                                                         ......o.t hedahote.sd  lo   tt   5  ttt2t
detr,    ooeiltolt1 5   fottts   cordolo   as  dttttotoool     co,    .   ot  esstre    os .st  sdfnl
sat  goirbto  o  rosobe tate   ttt  esol. fteuloo                                                to  s't   false   tte-tot   oo)a   eotae    foest
vototclo   aoe  eeoeolttstOstN   oee o  ts pojoce   tat ctr-yr sd  y  ctol~fetootaloo  lotonl tololods  oc ooo -sdi1
toiaofrdpoptatt   tto    er700    M   r   so  fOott   ffet   ot  dtt  o   ootf eetttfb    f  tsr dialo    o
foroll by  rate  to rottlsosteot letel.                                     oouocrtaeoftboctoeoss I edttcattto ehotti lso'ttosyaoooeed..-I,    100I parteot  g.,   I  t
ftottaetlO.170    r   otOt.pttaedl    t                                                                                             t   f   eno         .coe potot-tote coopees sotI
ft rlyt  100,   Ols-hIOOds   .-1taotdsttP                                                                              tts  -t ooory ;fetot-ooa-                  odltst-tt
op`allsot  10      0O   o    01dt.tuplt-cs  o   e  t-ttor.sd totolt-fo ~bsl   I ettot   rot.tedt
fatpoosto  Ifoo.% 57P6    196-'. sd   0ffSt                                                        repotoPogleole
papottio.e  for t1950-O   lo-fO   ad..O.fl                                                                -orotcs  of Ius   dl0totlOtoastt   or   o
ro:petlatiot  1060.  1070.  o   19LdSt dO.                                                               tr    tot    setctot   eso;souost -e
te-unsosgeottehoo  of OL og.ter. .                   ns   sOIltestIt                          ot Oar-oetttt
fsordoaodtjts    tldleotrecoe                              otstg-e.ofttet   rylerItronsootttt)-ttpef   aotrefosl
tsnltrietoutb   I's  erseat    stsI   96817,stOtdceetgeooltt  ortottioto   oua   o;aooa    0
los.                                                                                     totsdtteteattout.tsssodltese   ttt P ......o  o  tdl
Pito   looitAoetot.ftulIrtsrd)-Sout  tbo  fetstraac  otIte-ot    uo  I-ooo   yas  a   oth   obos- ecot   s
of hlttfo-tortrot datloec 0od50 sooploes of tsoltoal fislly  pt500000          toutt tIes obti lettet I Loeoattg.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ~ -  I.-
poogesa            Htteotsrrto"'tMotatr  Toc   oosft TotVos   o
otondlpocoutlor t  atO  lot omaltlst    Ptoottlotsolade   esoc  td                  fthe  taly"  Itto otoate  5  leaett.ct  less    seek
rets d Iso     PoIta   rearI  Nets ..  dinttctt   coerrLsar  -oo   cg                            oc Otd   -lctttt  peI             soco  t Y..r"          st  t  oh dtoato
Nedb     roatoa    gteas   poodoooprtt Lb oigtgb; 1961-65, 1970. sod 19f1
reote, co   boge!ocoo. Steprlte ctta.  aoe    f_n  ase                                                 -oopa...ole    19600  1970'cot toot dsLts.
"oltr    o   oali  ttid=        r  sriooattlosprt-r, body selgot,                                        ftchlto                   PIpooo.set  toaI ao   ot;160.  070so  198   dec.
at ho-shod  Isrel It 1961465. 1970 std'1990 dor.                                                          soP iltty    se    Msea   aooog   f tota  lab or fore                            6 0,
Ifoad    r   oe   boooe   o  tgaso   oa    1000sd1   rs                                         o  e t 0  tos to-rIstoto   of ottl.    Th...   aolooP  soo  tots   oo  oeo
NotrO.otoef   otto tru   atea  sod71    tle-      Poore1"to suP,ly  fbocilb I letot ttro.tt,                                            f-~                d            I       I
okra.                                                                                   ,tCoob tlo,zftr  "yotbo...
Child  ac   I-I) fado  ~tot  (pot th-oosdd  -   -oos  4tuths per too.tao -          rt 1P~e                      ,,oseoy  oeeiOt     oo   oce   o  to.-ttoedb                             te
soogtoo-..peso.  tttlt_    a     tttrusdeoaut r         restdseottpoao,ltstooooe-ts                                                  .-   20ooeao -ctt toeo.   oo-e-  ttereo    f
osaras  dbstete   ttslIfe  tattest 1960. 1070 Od 10981 doahoeod.
foat rltolito  Utot  (Ze  thoostot  - -.-Io ds-of  oi Lofarte  -ir  o                                 ststd  Abeloe ttoro  fooebot'OS  e   ooOtuootuI    00 
Otes   f rore pais  (pet orot of rt        tt-ttl  uts, o  o.ta -I                                     oafrtt......   adquat  dts- Pl- e--tLa  tor-fooddo9taib    tr
sataroopl   tOotMestresbed  -urst  users or  obtOe   but                                        Isleos  betasi -ebo-rloesLot,Otpa   sla                              oa  sotros   -
aooanslNedsero  oot  a  tN   to.  roeord   sooole.  rrrge  ad                             Pos  teator   ootryItce..ial  s  o'-toa o  sososeparoiot
,Ptay   eIl  eprPioga   ftboospote   oaatta    fts                                                  sooo  tteothccor. Pot   s-ll  detd   oeo                                       - oa
foam     bose  soy  o oostdere  so blhgrobstseia         ote   tfI.I..    I N               eoattPoplt   bols   tetoc -              Ptoboft- Looe doel lot Iorot
-bes of bbs  -oseo4 do to  ton   so apart a dis,Ipropoti-or   pert ofpoor.
the day Ls fstobtg  tbe feeily's seso or         e
amy  rtoods  ho  oltas to sdidoeosa, atob o   titon   oaa          Io    f                                                             rotot   o    -1tIda   Obo-t-
taos arreraadd nsss-'tebaoby oaste-booo  eyseo  the use of poo                                                                   Edoosel  osslyal   o   Posolt    epoe
potte   so   Iia    rabldood                                                                                                                              ly 1993



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOkIESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981/82 1/                             (Z, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.      %          1977/78-1981/82       1977/78-1981/82
GDP at Market Prices            8,894.4    100.0                  8.0                  0.1
Gross Domestic Investment        1,051.7     11.8               11.4                   4.4
Gross National Saving            -248.6    -2.8                - 2.6                 -24.8
Current Account Balance        -1,300.2   -14.6                -30.6                 -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS              787.8      8.9              - 2.7                   1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           2,246.3      25.3                9.8                  11.9
OIITPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1931/82
Value Added 2/       Labor Force 3J           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.     %        Mln.         %         US$   X (of average)
Agriculture        2,989    36.5        3.93       70.3         760         52.0
Industry           1,139     13.9       0.40        7.2       2,840        194.5
Services           4,052    49.5        1.26       22.5       3,210        220.0
Total        8,180   100.0         5.59     100.0        1,460       100.0
GoVERNmFeNT FINANCE
Central Government - 19EI/82
(LSd. Mln.)        % of GDP4j
Current Receipts                     890               12.3
Current Expenditure                  975               13.5
Current Surplus                     - 84              - 1.2
Capital Expenditures 5/              512                7.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  77/78   78179      79/80    80/81      81/82
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Honey Supply                             669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government        593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                           490.8   652.9       814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)            17.0    25.6        25.9      28.1       24.9
Bank Credit to Central Government         27.4    54.0         23.8      23.7       13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                        13.5    33.0         24.7      37.4      39.5
NOTE. All conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average effective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Bank staff estimates.
2/  The last year of officially published national accounts is 1977/78; c   data
presented here are the Government's own estimates presented in Prospects.
Program-es and Policies for Economic Devclopnent; 1982/P3-1984/85.
3/  Total labor force (est.); unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal
occupation.  "Unallocated" concists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their
first job.
4/ At m~.rket prices.
5/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other
public entities).
EA2DB
November 10, 1983



SUDAN - COIJNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81    1981/82        MERCHtANDISt EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
(Millions IUS$)
US$ Mln.           x
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798        801        788
Imports Goods, NFS               1,321      1,564      1,827      2,246       Cotton                     179.1           35.9
Resource Gap                     - 622      - 765    -1,026    -1,458         Sorghltm                    70.2           14.0
Interest, MLT Debt (net)          - 72       - 60       - 79      - 184       Groundnuts                  47.1            9.4
Other Factor Paymelents (net)    - 69        - 59       - 88      - 192       Gum Arabic                  41.5            8.3
Private Transfers                  240        209        305        350       Sesame                      40.7            8.1
Current Balance                  - 451      - 615      - 809    -1,300        Other                       91.0           18.2
Public Grants                       17         84        122        174              Total               477.0          100.0
Direct Investment                  --          10         20         70
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618        615        540        420       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Public MLT Loans, amort.            30         42         52         97
Total Public Net                   588        573        488        322                                              US$ Mln.
Net Credit, IMF                     58        115        165        --
Capital Flows (inci. errors                                                   Public Debt, DOD, MLT                  5.096.0 I/
and onissions)               - 160      - 113        - 52        499
Change In Net Reserves                                                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82
(- indicates increase)        - 50       - 54          66        235                                                    2
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             18.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annual Averages end Period
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82.        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
Official:                                                                                                           IBRD       IDA
LSd 1 - US$         2.000/1.250  1.250/1.111    1.111         0.769
Effective:                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed             46.8    339.6
LSd 1 - US$             1.580         1.230        1.111      0.769       U1idisbursed                            2.6    259.0
Free Market:                                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         49.4    598.6
LSd 1 - US$              ---           ---        0.769       0.556
. Not available.
l/ Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitary debt) is, however,
estimated to USS7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
November 10, 1983



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                          Undis-
Credit No.      Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Bank          IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and fifteen Credits fully disbursed:         139.0         256.1
Credit 547      1975   Sudan      Education II                          10.0    0.6
Credit 614      1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance                   4.0    0.1
Credit 782      1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing                   25.0   12.2
Credit 804      1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III                16.0    7.7
Credit 834      1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research                 15.0    7.8
Credit 882      1979   Sudan      Highway II                            41.0    2.7
Credit 904      1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture                15.0    7.6
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan       Third Power                           65.0   30.3
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan       New Halfa Rehabilitation              40.0   30.8
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                 32.0   25.5
Credit 1119 71 1981   Sudan       White Nile Pump Rehab.                35.0   27.3
Credit 1153 71 1981   Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance                6.0    4.1
Credit 1181 /1 1981   Sudan       Western Savannah                      13.0    4.5
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan       Agricultural Services                 18.0   15.7
Credit 1233 71 1982   Sudan       Second Port                           25.0   10.2
Credit 1388 /1 1983   Sudan   **Gezira Rehabilitation                   80.0   80.0
Credit 1389 f1 1983   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program II              50.0   49.4
Credit F011*71 1984   Sudan   **Third Education Project                 10.0   10.0
Credit 1451 /1 1984   Sudan   **Third Education Project                  5.4    5.4
Credit 1450 _1 1984   Sudan       Third Highway Project                 16.0   16.0
Total                                         139.0         777.5  343.8
of which repaid                              96.4           4.2
Total now outstanding                          42.6         773.3
Amount sold                     5.8                   8.3
of which repaid               5.8              -   8.3      -
Total held by Bank & IDA                       42.6         773.3
Total undisbursed                               Nil         343.8  343.8
/1 IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 11 credits are: SI)R 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.4 million, SDR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
million and SDR 15.5 million respectively.)
** Not yet effective.
*/1 Special Fund Credit



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                 (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                   Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and        Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972            Textiles                                 1.9    0.3       2.2
1976            Cotton Textile Mills                       8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.               11.0    1.2    12.2
1978            Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.            6.7    1.4       8.1
1980            Sudan Cement Company                        -      0.2      0.2
1982            White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.               -      0.3      0.3
Total gross commitments                   28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                    6.7    0.5       7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC         21.6    4.2    25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                   1.9    0.2      2.1



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Ten months
(b) Project prepared by: Government, Consultants
(c)  Identification mission:  May 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission:         February 1984
(e)  Negotiations:              June 4-6, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1984
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action: None
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) Before credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(i) Sign a consultancy contract satisfactory to IDA with
experienced and qualified exploration consultants
(para 59); and
(ii) Establish a project group and an operating committee
headed by the Director of GMRD (para 59).
(b) During negotiations, the Government has agreed:
(i) To place the proceeds of any sales reports/data
generated under the project in a special account of
GMRD to be used only for further investments in the
petroleum sector (para. 59);
(ii) To discuss with the Association not later than
December 31, 1987 the programs for the promotion of
exploration based on the technical work done by the
consultants (para. 59);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii) To discuss with the Association not later than June
30, 1986 the results and recommendations of the oil
and gas and organizational studies (para. 59);
(iv)  To commence the construction of a new core storage,
in accordance with plans satisfactory to IDA, not
later than December 31, 1985 (para. 61);
(v)  To prepare a long-term program for training by
December 31, 1987 (para. 62); and
(vi)  To require the consultants to submit semi-annual work
programs that would be discussed with IDA, as well as
annual audited accounts for its expenditures in a
form satisfactory to IDA (para. 67).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8 pages
TECHNlCAL ANNEX
1. HYDROCARBON GEOLOGY AND STATUS OF EXPLORATION
Petroleum Geological Framework
l.          Sudan, the largest nation in Africa, has an area of 2.5 million
sq km, of which about 830,000 sq km may have potential for hydrocarbons
from what is known at present. In spite of the exploration efforts over
the past 25 years, relatively little is known about the geology and
hydrocarbon potential of Sudan, particularly in the northern part, compared
to what is known in neighboring countries such as Libya and Egypt. The
continental shelf area, to the 200 m water depth, is believed to contain up
to an additional 20,000 sq km with hydrocarbon potential, with more than
4,000 m of sediments in some places.
2.          The mainland of Sudan, which is separated from the coastal area
by an uplift of Paleozoic and volcanic rocks, contains series from
Pre-Cambrian to Younger Tertiary age. It can be subdivided into two main
basinal areas, possibly separated by a relatively positive trend of the
basement oriented in a SW-NE direction and running from the boundary of
Sudan with southern Chad to the coastal area. To the south of this trend,
three basins have been identified, but only partly explored; they are
oriented in a NW-SE direction and separated by faulted uplifts. The
southermost Muglad basin is the largest, reaching more than 200,000 sq
km.l/ Drilling there has reached Lower Cretaceous series at a depth of
4,500 m. It is estimated that in parts of the basin the total sedimentary
sequence may reach more than 7,000 m in thickness. Discoveries with a high
success ratio have been made by Chevron in the Upper Cretaceous; the
company was, however, active only on development drilling prior to its
suspension of activities.
3.          The Melut basin and the Blue Nile basin which run parallel to
the Muglad are less extended, their area being of the order of 100,000 sq
km each.  They are at present less known.  Drilling by Chevron has found
the Upper Cretaceous series at some 4,500 m and recently oil has been
encountered in the Lower Tertiary of the Melut basin.
4.           To the north of the basement trend,, the Darfur basin extends
over a large area (some 300,000 sq km at least). lt is, however, separated
into two parts by a central swell of Paleozoic rocks. It extends towards
the SW into Chad. Rocks outcropping at the surface are of Mesozoic Nubian
series, their facies consist of an alternation of sandstone and shale with
a possible greater marine influence to the SW. An early
1/ This compares to less than 20,000 sq km in the Gulf of Suez basin,
where prospects may be of a similar nature.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8 pages
aeromagnetic survey estimated that sediment thicknesses would not exceed
3,200 m. However, it is doubtful whether a sufficient effort has been made
to properly evaluate this huge basin, since it might present a secondary
objective in the Paleozoic series and be subdivided by grabens in the same
way as can be observed in the southern part of the country. Further work
would therefore be required.
5.          Petroleum exploration in Sudan began in 1959.  Since then, a
total of 76 wells have been drilled in the country; 64 in the south/central
part of the country, and 12 in the Red Sea area. Results onshore have been
good as oil and gas accumulations have been encountered or tested
successfully in more than 30 percent of the wells, while gas and possibly
oil accumulations have also been encountered offshore.
Exploration Onshore
6.          In November 1974, Chevron was granted over 520,000 sq km of
acreage that covered almost the entire sedimentary outcrop area of the
country south of latitude 140 north. After relinquishments, Chevron's
licensed area now covers 250,000 sq km in the three main graben trends of
Southern Sudan: The Muglad basin, the Melut basin and the Blue Nile basin.
Chevron's first discovery was made in 1979 on the Abu Gabra field, followed
by the Unity-Talih field (1980), both in the Muglad basin.
7.          After these discoveries, Chevron intensified its activity and
discovered a further 9 fields in Upper Cretaceous fluviatile sands of the
Muglad basin and 2 fields in the Melut basin, while drilling in the Blue
Nile basin has not been successful so far. (Dinder, the one well drilled
there had only significant wet gas shows). ln general, the oil has a
gravity varying from 30-40 API, a rather high wax content and is produced
with a low gas/oil ratio.
8.          Prior to the recent suspension of activites for security
reasons, Chevron had recorded about 35,000 km of seismic and three seismic
crews were operating (including one crew handling 3D seismic). The rate of
drilling was about 15-20 wells per year with four rigs. It is estimated
that Chevron has invested more than US$750 million in Sudan. In January
1984, it was announced that Royal Dutch Shell had taken a 25 percent
interest in Chevron's Sudan investments, including the pipeline project.
This would strengthen further Chevron's ability to mobilize large amounts
for investments in Sudan.
9.          In 1968, CONOCO carried out an areomagnetic survey over NW
Sudan, the Darfur basin. Their conclusion of a maximum depth of 3,200 m
subsurface for the basement, the expectation that most of the sediments
would be of Paleozoic age, considerations of remoteness, scarcity of water,
dunes or sheet sand coverage led them to suspend any exploratory activity.
However, it is not clear that this area has been explored sufficiently. At
the end of 1979, Total received two blocks of acreage for a total of
171,000 sq km in the vicinity of the Chevron acreage. Total is at preblcnt



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8 pages
finishing its geophysical surveys and plans to drill in the near future.
In1L 1981, Sun and Philips obtained areas in the northwestwards extension of
the Blue Nile graben. They have completed aeromagnetic surveys, and
Philips has relinquished its area, whereas Sun is proceeding with further
exploration.
Exploration Offshore
10.         Oil exploration in the Red Sea area has been undertaken, off
and on, since 1959. A number of companies have had concessions and
undertaken geophysical sirveys, and 12 wells have been drilled, some with
gas shows.   The most important discovery was at Bashayer-1 and Suakin-1,
both tested by Chevron. These results are discussed below. The latest
concessionaires, Total, drilled an outpost to the Bashayer discovery
without sufficient seismic control, and therefore with negative results.
The Red Sea area is at present entirely free as open acreage, primarily
because the oil industry considers the area as gas prone and therefore of
limited interest. However, Total has indicated a continued interest in the
further exploration and development of the Suakin structure, if partners
could be found.
The Suakin Structure
11.         The Suakin structure is located irn the offshore Sudan, on the
western side of the Red Sea rift, at some 40 km from the coast offshore
Trinkitat, south of Port Sudan. The water depth in the structure area is
about 75 m.  The area was surveyed by detailed seismic in the years
1975-77, when Chevron shot some 6,200 line-km, then by Total in 1980, which
shot an additional 987 line-km.
12.         As to drilling, wells in the area were already drilled in 1964
by Agip, at Durvara, then in 1977 by Chevron, who found gas at Bashayer-I
(9.7 MCFD) and gas and condensate at Suakin-l (6.9 MCFD and 1,158 BD,
respectively) and a dry hole at South Suakin-1. In 1980, Total drilled a
poorly located outstep to Bashayer-1 which resulted in a dry hole.
13.         The Suakin struc:ture, at the level of the producing horizon,
appears as a large dome elongated in a NW-SE direction, with a gently
folded, nonfaulted central zone, which area exceeds 40 sq km.  Along its
northern and southern flanks, the structure is cut by tension (listric)
faults, which in turn might provide favorable trapping conditions for
hydrocarbons in the shallower objective sequence.
14.         The objective consists of sandstone layers, with thicknesses
varying from 8-20 m interbedded with shale and some evaporite layers. The
sequence was deposited in the Upper Miocene time, and the sands show good
petrophysical characteristics, such as 20 percent porosity and relatively
good permeability. Numerous shows were recorded while drilling Suakin-1,
but only one test was made on a 17 m sand interval at a depth of 2,300 m
(perforations on 10 m). In 6 hours, the test produced gas and condensate



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8 pages
at favorable rates. The gas produced was wet and had a small percentage of
carbon dioxide, its composition was as follows:
Cl (methane)         72%        C4 (iso-butane)         3%
C2 (ethane)          10%        C5 + (sio-pentane)    4%
C3 (propane)          6%        C02 (carbon dioxide)  5%
15.         At least five other sand layers were recorded in Suakin-1 with
50-60 percent hydrocarbon saturation (computed from log analysis) and with
thicknesses varying from 2-12 m. The condensate produced (520 API) is of
such quality that it is quite likely to be light oil.
16.         It has been estimated from the pressures recorded at Suakin
that the hydrocarbon column trapped into the main reservoir could be such
that the accumulation would extend, in the central part of the structure,
over an area of 40 sq km. This indicates that at least 40-100 million
barrels of oil/condensate could be recovered, together with 0.5 TCF or more
of natural gas. However, at least one well drilled at a distance from
Suakin-I is required to appraise the field. Such a well should be situated
some 2 km to the NW or to the SE.
17.         Prior to any drilling, however, it would be important to study
in detail the geophysical data at hand to better delineate the trapping
possibilities which may occur in the direct vicinity of the structure, and
in the reservoirs which are truncated at Suakin-1 but recognized in the
Bashayer area. Possibly, these could contain an additional reserve of the
order of at least 100 million barrels.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
18.      The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) Institutional Support. The project would provide for (i) a
resident exploration adviser for a period of three years, as
well as other management and technical assistance (46
man-months) to coordinate project activities, train local
staff and provide the Ministry (MEM) with expert advice and
assistance when needed; (ii) assistance on contract economics
and negotiations (11 man-months); (iii) assistance in
monitoring of petroleum exploration and production contracts
(10-man months); (iv) assistance in organization and filing
of geological and geophysical data (7 man-months); (v)
assistance in the organization of the petroleum sector (20
man-months), including a specific organization and management
study of GPC; (vi) training of 26 professionals in geology,
geophysics and petroleum economics; and (vii) procurement of



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8 pages
laboratory and other equipmen; computer facilities, well core
storage facilities, field vehicles, office equipment and
supplies.
(b) Exploration Promotion. Consultants would be engaged (320
man-months) to: (i) design, supervise and implement a gravity
survey of h:[therto unknown areas; (ii) collate, reinterpret
and evaluate past exploration data; (iii) identify
prospective areas and potential hydrocarbon bearing
structures; (iv) prepare an overall report on the petroleum
potential of Sudan together with area reports as required;
and (v) promote the perspective areas to attract interest in
oil companies.
(c) Studies for the utilization of oil and gas for domestic
consumption.
The detailed costs of the project are provided in the attached
Table.
III. TRAINING PROGRAM
Introduction
19.      It is proposed to train 26 members of the professional staff of
GMRD/GPC, including laboratory managers/supervisors. Training will be
completed during a 27 month period. Both groups would undergo formal
abroad and training on-the-job. The on-the-job training would entail 20
percent of the above 27 month period abroad and 80 percent of the time
period in the Sudan. The scheme of training abroad is shown in Chart 1.
Professional Staff Training Abroad
20.      This will consist: of a formal training period of four months
abroad, probably England, divided into two stages. Stage 1 will comprise
20 days of formal classroom instruction in Petroleum geology (10 days),
Exploration Geophsics (5 days), and Petroleum Geochemistry (5 days). The
period of classroom instruction will be fol:Lowed by a 24 day period of
field based programs designed to provide experience of field relationships,
structural and sedimentological environments and reservoir facies which
have important parallels in the Sudan. Time allocation will be as follows:
(a) Detailed field mapping in an area of structurally complex
evolution with major sedimentological and stratigraphic
problems (9 days).
(b) Quantitative field study of modern and ancient Fluvial
Sedimentation (4 days).



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8 pages
(c) Influence of basement upon sequences in the sedimentary cover
(3 days).
(d) Control of sedimentary basin development at rifted
*                          continental margins (3 days).
(e) Reservoir Models: Fluvial-Estuarine Sedimentation (3 days).
(f) Reservoir Models: Carbonate Platform/Reefal/Basinal
environments (2 days).
21.      The timing of the above Stage 1 program is shown in Chart 2.
22.      Stage 2 of the Formal Training period will comprise a program of
thirteen specialized courses. The program is arranged in order to provide
at least one month of intensive training in a single sub-discipline and to
allow flexibility for each trainee to attend an additional shorter course
or courses in essentially related fields.
23.      The proposed schedule of courses and timings are shown in Chart
3. The courses offered and theiLr lengths are as follows:
(a) Clastic sedimentology: environments; diagenesis and reservoir
characteristics (15 days).
(b)  Carbonate sedimentology; environments; diagenesis and
reservoir characteristics (10 days).
(c) Facies, environments and diagenesis of Evaporitic rocks (5
days).
(d) Well-log interpretation, correlation, electrofacies, etc. (10
days).
(e) Reservoir studies: Evaluation, Engineering and Field
Development (20 days).
(f) Biostratigraphy: Protistan microfossils, foraminifera,
ostracoda, palynology (20 days).
(g) Interpretation of Regional Gravity and Magnetic Studies (20
days).
(h) Principles of Seismic Interpretation (20 days).
(i) Tectonics and Dynamic Stratigraphy; Principles of Plate
and Regional Tectonics. Tectonic frameworks for
hydrocarbon exploration (10 days).



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8 pages
(j) Exploration applications of Structural Geology (10 days).
(k) Analysis and interpretation of Geochemical data (20 days).
(1) Geochemical analytical techniques (10 days).
(m) Computer Applications in Petroleum exploration (10 days).
24.      The above scheme will provide specialist training and allow
individual trainees to contribute significantly in the following sub-
disciplines during the on-the-job phase of training:
Tectonics, Structural and Field Gieology (4 persons)
Sedimentology                               (4 persons)
Biostratigraphy                             (3 persons)
Seismic Interpretation                      (3 persons)
Gravity and Magnetic Studies                (2 persons)
Geochemistry                                (3 persons)
Reservoir Engineering and Evaluation        (4 persons)
On-the-Job Training Abroad
25.      This will involve all trainees.  Initially, seven trainees will
remain abroad after completion of the Formal Training Period. The
remaining sixteen trainees will return at intervals during the course of
the project, these intervals being timed to coincide with stages of the
work of the consultants involving particular sub-disciplines. At other
times, all trainees will be assigned to aspects of the project upon which
work will continue in the Sudan with regular supervisional visits by the
consultant's specialist staff.
Training of Laboratory Managers/Supervisors
26.      It is proposed that six individuals be trained in the following
fields:
(a) Core analysis
(b) Petroleum Geochemistry



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 8 pages
(c) Micropalaeontology
(d) Palynology
(e) Computer Applications
(f)  Carto-Reprographics
27.      Training periods will range from one to three months.  The periods
abroad will be timed to coincide with processing of samples in the
consultants' offices for the project or, in the case of items (e) and (f)
above other appropriate phases of the project. Details are shown in Chart
1.
Training of Laboratory Managers/Supervisors in the Sudan
28.      This will be largely achieved in the Sudan and will be closely
integrated with the commissioning of laboratory facilities. Experienced
consultant personnel will spend a total of 8 man-months in Khartoum
specifically related to the on-the job aspects of laboratory supervisory
training.
Engineering
29.      It is anticipated that engineering training (reservoir and
production engineering and conceptual development engineering) will be
presented both within the formal training course for all Sudanese
participants (an overview) and in detail for selected Sudanese engineers in
a 2-week formal training.



- 40 -
TABLE
SUDAN: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Costs:                                               US$ Thousand
Local   Foreign   Total
A. Assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(i)  Contract Economics                             15       180      195
(ii)  Contract Monitoring                            15        240      255
(iii)  Data Collection                                10        140      150
(iv)  Resident Advisor                              200        640     840
(v)  Promotion                                      20       530      550
(vi)  Training                                       40        920      9b0
(vii)  Vehicles and Gravity Equipment                 -         390      390
(viii)  Lab. & Office Facilities & Equip.             610        660   1,270
(ix)  Other Equipment & Supplies                     -         160      160
(x)  Organization Study                             20        220     240
Sub-total                             930      4,080   5,010
B. Exploration Promotion
(i)  Sedimentary Basin Mapping                      15        360     375
(ii)  Gravity and Magnetics                          50      1,400   1,450
(iii)  Seismic Studies                                20        630      650
(iv)  Geological and Well Studies                    20      1,825   1,845
(v)  Data Integration & Exploration
Potential Assessment                         5        185      190
(vi)  Project Administration                         30        770      800
Sub-total                             140      5,170   5,310
C. Studies
Oil/Gas Utilization Studies                   20        410      430
Base Line Costs                            1,090      9,660  10,750
D. Contingencies
Physical                                     110        650      760
Price                                        100      1,160   1,260
Sub-total                               210      1,810   2,020
E.  PPF Refinancing                                         -         530      530
TOTAL COSTS                                1,300    12,000  13,300



S                                                       1 I<~~~~~~~~~~~~TAINI NG
DESCRIPTION                  1  2  3  -A  5 u     7   .   1  0 11  12 13 1 4 15 1121711O 21  22  31L2P2J1            23      O31
-             ~~~Pa rt_i cijtionad  tra inim Unhlroad
_   _  _  foinlttinA                                          J    -at(i;.t/l LriTlZ lAI>;I_-,_ 
trainiing abroad.                                    Ef:
. _ _C_ _ _    E- _ _ _ _
jrt,In'g  jitrr.d vd;ts by &w;r$do, -we staff
ICnPtl                      I W                                   
of                 2IIg 
aibroad           .nIo~
Cotnsultant         &.I,c'o.
pIv.,d--p    ~ pjI-.,n191ogy
Ub dtartat"                 prfvolirut                                                   -                               
in it1d Sod &A    GeodhamI I II                                                                    I   pll.io  I At I ont p1tdo  .1
) V."u to Ihe S.udM'by IttSni6g c*oId4Aa1OI



- 42
TIZA IN I ~~~, I", ~CHARIM.2
NtNE WORKING VEEKS
ELEK 1        >WEEK2  |        EE        J    4E  |  WEEK 5         WJEEi 4 6    WEEK 7        WEEK 8  |            EE  9
Pe:rateium Geoilcqy4
Petroleum
Geochermistr,
Field Evaluation ard
Detailed Field t'ang.*i
Ouantiiative Snitr M,cdern
nd Ancient Fiuvial S:inmentation
influence of Sav'!ntmt
Structure and CorncIrensei
Margin Rif:in; cn Salrienrary 'ecuenc-
Reservcir Mcodt.
(a) Fluvi3l Es*_;rine t
(b) Carbornate ;eerri
Enviroiren
CouJrzes I -
Cour,es 4 -
Cours 7



-43-
FORMAL TRAINWMr STAGE 2
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                      CHART  3
EiGHT WORKINC G EEKS
WEEK 1       WEEK 2        WEEK 3        'WEEK 4  |WEEK S  |V_ EEK 6              'WEEK 7  |  WEEK 8
Claitic         t                      Carbonate          IEyaporite  '
Sedimentology        Petrography)       Sedimentologt        Sedimentoloqy
Log Interoretation
and Wfell Correlation
Res*sfvcr Stud;n *- Jluatian and Enginvering
Profnsa motsils-Fwaramnif                   patGsraoc molnoiov
Gravity and              ti.agnetics tt
4-                             i 
Sitsmic In-erore2t1icn
?rrczples - Frameeworks       Strucwunl Studier
a nd Synrtes es        Ex;.o?aF,on A:2piicatorns
SeGcied GevarT cticu
G;COChem;C;I ArIn 1w i and  t nte r^ r~:c-3tn         Teccnnicu es          Compu te r AcDOJ3j; Cz OrS






On'          ~~~28'             30                  2                                     6                  0
ARAB  REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P   SJLA
L         1                                                    DC4o--A-N------
f-Is'                                                                                            -                     01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O T UA
f-I6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'I                                                                                              B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  L
14                     61                                        >50                                         'VA~K,  MADA',       '
14'                                                                                                   El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLd)[ -scsi,etJ  4'-
-2'     >Lo,             ' T~~NAL AI,                                                                                                                        12'
oy                    E/THTI                                               v PI 
A F R I C A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo>  ALL,I-
R E PU B/                                                       N        Plob  /f-I--ID
CENTRALEUMTEHNCA                                                                       JUB/
APRICAN~~~~~~~~AMI
A'          REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~.zr.N,,.'                                                                                E
unSudanOiC.  Ae2153 K..)                                  AimD                                      AiviAA
---P   -d  ,d.OlP,.i-ZA        
PETROLEUM   E CHN,g0.  iCALe                                      .       10        0 MoirKi  -" 2j Kuon Ic II
R.-,                                                                                 -A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T0          5
P,.-val B.u.d.,..,                             0'                           0      ' CKENYRAL                   E'H  3P
CeRonOil Co..die oFSdn(Ae'510   i2
nt-otal  opoaln Cu (Area s."%                                           %.""""""AA
24'                  26 a.     13,93Km                                  37N 2Nin.I IB Al RE QI                                        \NYAU






22-               24-                2 26              28-                30'                =34                                  36'twi:=      =    5
22'                                           ~~~~ARAB         REPUBLIC <s           O            G P                                        ;     22
LI  BY  A                                               41
20', ,,                                                                                                              -f
C    ADj   3'   's"   DGAE P04~/
^                                                    ! ; )  E    ;   ,;d  sS~~~~~77 -<S,?,>., o ....... SS*//fr  ........   
I 8 S ?' e s f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b /H es==       9  tM'>sSU- Z,h2dW    
-le           '         's         '           ,,   ,       ':''                                           'L   ''   /        t   .X  
<                  /    =.o        <           .     ,=       .                                                                    t         
14> t; =;- gYtQms . -1 > zp / /; /2~~~~~D F |) AME1
C       t Hf Aw,S,t D>;                                           o                                      w  
2-  \-0">>Crz'  'eIku,      6X2                                            .     ,      ''>       ~{                            t          12
_(  \ 4  %' 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 eKAGU;<og" 0\- ;4 =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
f 0   '>?<   /9    v   -' 0  --  To od1    *   5  >  4             '                       SAi A
f   _  _   f   \     0   ' |  f   \ 0   t   f  S  A   2\4-  0   ;~F a  1              r_    
): ''/)~              ,               S    :        g     : !    : CL;              \     f  xC
g / X g X \ 2 ~~-g===t hAL \ADARE
;2!   \ , =   FK,E,I  I       X      e          : 5      <    :          _      E  T  HI O           AP INA
C    NTR           &   ;            -~~             ,     <;; ;              N      ,0;0            ;~ o
14'                              *E  14 ;14 'v-v                                              i               EL)*
~~~~~~~E  AS F ER ICAN  >W-  f =    ;-r-  v
5 R E P U b L C i 5 0 2 .5 \ .: i J9, - tsg g , ^= P <~~
,k,=,~~~~~~~.%4\
j.  ....ool .     A..  E8  r-,  W AD
5;^r/z,Meszoi  An  Prieozc                            {    U S      A   I>J D   AEGYT    j                            A  AABI
.  Ndifrniu BrueAetCmexude.,dAge   -Yh
'-  And Extrusive Rocks i ( M 8 -:' < 4\.~~~~~~~~AZI
2'   <   Faults                            c        loo      200     3QQ       400 K cme~~~~~~~'pt- r    o           A     horuT g tAiE
A F1  R4 Ib                                            2B A0                                    32N                     w9        AIRE7                   1



A



