Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20212
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23225; 35860; 3586A; 3586S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
June 6, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March , 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
1 Rp. = US$ 0.0001
US$ 1.00 = 7200 Rp.
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  Janaury 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD         -      Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
APP          -      Agricultural Training Academy
BAPPENAS   -        National Development Planning Agency
BAPEDAL    -        Environmental Impact Management Agency
CIRAD        -      French Center for International Cooperation in Agricultural Research
and Development (CIRAD)
DGFCH        -      Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture
DITLIN       -      Directorate of Crop Protection
FFS          -      Farmer Field School
GOI          -      Government of Indonesia
IPM          -      Integrated Pest Management
IRRI         -      International Rice Research Institute
M&E          -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          -      Management Information System
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
PHP          -      Pest Observers
POPT         -      Crop Protection Manager
PPL          -      Field Extension Workers
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SEARCA       -      Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture
T&V          -      Training and Visit Approach
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:   Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Dely P. Gapasin, EASRD



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                            26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
Annex 8. Key Issues                                                                   38
Annex 9. ICR Mission                                                                  45
Tbis document has a restricted dishibuln and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of thidr official dudes. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
Worid Bamk ahoriatiol.






Project ID: P004009                                      Project Name: INTEGRATED PEST MGMT
Team Leader: Dely P. Gapasin                             TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 6, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                          L/C/TFNumber: 23225; 35860; 3586A;
3586S
CountryIDepartment: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/15/92                                Effective: 07/06/93           07/06/93
Appraisal:  03/05/93                                 MTR: 07/31/95              09/11/95
Approval:  03/30/93                                Closing: 09/30/98            11/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/MIN OF AGRIC
Other Partners: USAID
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey Fox                              Anthony P. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   Dely P. Gapasin                          Shusma Ganguly
ICR Primary Author:  John L. Nickel
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objectives were to stabilize agricultural production, particularly paddy, and promote
envirornentally sound crop production systems by: (1) focusing on institutional strengthening (i.e.,
educating rather than instructing farmers, provide a service geared to local farm level needs, and support
field investigation and studies responsive to farmers' needs); and (2) providing for policy support to
strengthen the regulatory and environmental framework for pesticides.



These objectives were clearly stated and supportive of the development and environmental priorities of the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) and the Bank. The strategies for farmer education in integrated pest
management (IPM) and training design and methodology were tested during a pilot phase. Although these
were complex, and had placed a heavy management demand on the borrower/implementing agency, they
were successfully implemented during the replication phase.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained umchanged throughout the project life.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:
*     Human Resource Development. Training of about 520 pest observers (PHPs) and 210 extension
workers (PPLs) in IPM concepts and training methodology. The PUP training would be through a 15
month course at Field Training Facilities; the PPL Training would be through an additional year at the
extension academies (APPs). In addition, 1,100 extension workers would receive one-week orientation in
IPM and participatory training concepts. At least 800,000 farners would receive IPM training using
farmer field school (FFS) approach. About 25,000 of the farmers trained would receive further training as
farmer IPM facilitators. By the end of the project average women's enrollment would approach about 30
percent. The project would support the development of a management information system (MIS) to help
strengthen planning and management capability, particularly at district and provincial levels.
*     Supporting Studies and Field Investigations. The occupational health study and habitat studies
(established under the pilot phase) would be continued for two years. Up to six field laboratories (Action
Research Facilities) would be established and maintained for each of three years. Approximately 25
research contracts would be made annually with national institutes and universities on IPM-related topics.
Agro-ecosystem mapping of rice areas in Java at the scale of 1:100,000, would be completed. Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) activities would be linked to the key stages of the project, such as an initial
establishment of the M&E system, the mid-term review, and the final project year review.
*     Policy Support. The project would support the implementation of an action plan for strengthening
of the regulatory and environmental management framework for pesticides, primarily aimed at supporting
IPM policies. The Action Plan for this component included: (a) a review of the role and functions and
strengthening of the Pesticide Commission; (b) a review and phase-out of the most hazardous pesticides; (c)
collation and dissemination of information for pesticide management; and (d) environmental audits of
manufacturing/formulation plants to ensure compliance with relevant environmental and occupational
health and safety laws and regulations.
These components related well to the project objectives. Given the lessons learned from the previous
agricultural research management projects regarding difficulties in establishing linkages, more explicit
plans for the integration of the research activities in support of this project would have been desirable.
Also the policy component should have taken a broader view on government programs that continued to
provide conflicting messages to farmers in training areas, e. g. the inclusion pesticides in rice intensification
programs.
Technical Assistance.  The FAO technical assistance (funded as a grant by USAID) was expected to
provide about 260 person-months of international consultancy and 629 months of national support staff.
Major areas for FAO technical assistance would be to support human resource development (farmers'
training), conduct of field investigations and studies, and development of a management information system
-2 -



(MIS). Limited support would be provided in the areas of cartography and gender aspects of the project.
FAO consultancy services would be phased down by the fourth year, as the local capacity developed. The
project would also support a separate M&E consultancy and about 15 person months of international
pesticides regulations/environment experts.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained essentially unchanged throughout the life of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The IPM concepts and FFS strategies embodied in the project design had been tested in a pilot project and
were sound. Indonesia adopted IPM as a national crop protection strategy with Presidential Decree No. 3
(November 1986). About 57 broad spectrum pesticides were banned, and chemical control was said to be
retained only as a measure of last resort. Hence, there was evidence of significant high level commitment
on the part of GOI and awareness among the stakeholders of the issues involved in relation to crop
production, crop protection, and environment at the project concept stage. The technical and environmental
aspects are satisfactory. However, in retrospect, the quality at entry is rated as marginally satisfactory for
the following reasons:
*     more attention should have been given to ensure that the project activities were embodied into the
structure and functions of relevant Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) units in recognition of the impracticality
of continuing the IPM training activities under the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
(see para 5.2 and Annex 8); and
-     lack of conditionality with respect to M&E allowed a situation in which M&E did not get
established until late in the project, resulting in apparent misreporting and difficulties in assessing the
numbers trained (see para 4.2).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project had a mixed record in achieving its development objectives, and on some issues there is
insufficient evidence to pass judgment. The Staff Appraisal Report's (SAR) target to train at least 800,000
farmers in IPM, which was revised in 1995, was not fully achieved. However, an impressive number of
farmers have been given better understanding of their agro-ecosystems that will enable them to make better
pest management decisions in their own farms. This has resulted in changes in farmer behavior. Many
farmers who participated in the IPM field schools now make pest management decisions on the basis of a
knowledge of what is going on in their fields, rather than practicing calendar-based spraying. They also
have been found to use considerably less pesticides, are more concerned with preserving natural enemies,
and use biological control practices more often (SEARCA's impact).
A critical mass of pest observers and farmer trainers have been educated in IPM concepts and methods,
have better training skills, and are now prepared to train farmers and promote IPM practices in their
communities.
The technical base for IPM has been enhanced by field studies carried out by farmers themselves.
Improvements in pesticide laws provide better policy support for IPM promotion and for the National IPM
Program. Government actions have created a policy environment more conducive to the adoption of IPM
concepts and practices by farmers.
These achievements all contribute to the overall objectives of stabilizing agricultural production and
promotion of environmentally sound, health-friendly crop production systems.
- 3 -



A key institutional strengthening outcome of the project was the increased motivation and ability of farmers
to organize themselves into local farmers' groups and provincial and national IPM farmers' associations.
Consequently, they have a strong voice in IPM issues and can exert influence on government officials on
other policies of importance to them. In addition, the introduction of grass-roots participatory methods of
planning, on-farm technology testing, and field monitoring, resulted in significant participation of farmers.
IPM farmers' familiarity with methods of scientific experimentation and a new-found self confidence in
their skills, opens the way for new forms of relationships between researchers, extension workers and
farmers.
On the basis of the achievements listed above the outcome has been rated as "Satisfactory". It is only
marginally so because it could have achieved much more. That so much was achieved is attributable
chiefly to the soundness of the IPM concepts applied, the enthusiasm of field leaders, and the strong
field-level support by the FAO TA team. The full potential impact of the project was not achieved because
of quality at entry and implementation problems discussed in this report.
4.2 Outputs by components:
*      Human Resource Development:
Numbers of Trained Farmers. According to data supplied by the GOI, a total of 914,934 farmers were
trained by the end of the project. In terms of crops, 755,494 farmers received training in rice IPM, 59,962
in soybean IPM, 55,750 in vegetables IPM, and 43,728 in special topics, such as tungro, biological control,
and follow-up field schools. However, based on available studies about the nunbers of participating
farmers, for purposes of this ICR, a revised estimate of the numbers of farmners trained has been computed
(see Annex 8). By these estimates the total number of farmers trained would be only 626,235 or 79% of
the revised SAR target. The ongoing World Bank study on FFS may further clarify the estimated number
of farmers trained in IPM. These nunbers were achieved over a 6 year period (vs the planned 5 years)
with only 77% of the funding envisaged in the SAR
Numbers of Trained Trainers. The persons who were trained to serve as trainers included 23,072 farmer
trainers, 676 pest observers, and 1,796 extension workers (PPLs). Data from the SEARCA impact study
suggest that the proportion of farners trained by farmer trainers was much lower than the 38% reported by
the GOI. Thus these trainers were apparently underutilized for FFS. However, in addition to training other
farmers, the farmer trainers are to providing leadership in organizing follow-up activities and IPM farmer's
association to promote IPM in their villages. Of the PPLs, 369 were trained through an additional year at
the in-service extension academies, while the remaining 1,427 received one week orientation in IPM and
participatory training methods after undergoing a season-long field training (FFS). In addition, 666 staff
and farmer trainers underwent short-term training in biological control. Farmer leaders from 127 districts
were trained in information management. This training was in activities related to development of IPM
farmer networks for planning and sharing of technical information. Project staff were trained in financial
management. Seven DGFCH staff received M. Sc. degrees in natural resources and environment
management at Bogor Agricultural University in Indonesia.
Numbers of Trained Women Farmers. The average percentage of women trained in IPM field schools
increased from 5.6% at the beginning to 21.5% in the last year of the project (see annex 8). Although there
were regional differences, there was a significant increase in women's participation in IPM training over
the years. Women's leadership in mixed all-women farmers' groups increased and they have actively
participated in follow-up activities.  The gender studies demonstrated the need, particularly in a
multi-ethnic culture like Indonesia, to vary targets for women's participation by region according to their
role in farming practices in each culture, based on prior gender analysis. Unfortunately these findings of the
- 4 -



gender studies were not always applied correctly. Excessive pressure to meet gender targets resulted in
participation of non-farmers (i.e. farmers' daughters who were students) in field schools in some provinces
where women do not play an active role in farming.
Qualitv of Training. The quality of training, in general, was "Satisfactory". Training quality was adversely
affected by attempts to reach numerical targets, in spite of budget reductions and funding delays resulting
from the economic crisis. The quality of training provided by farmer trainers to other farmers was mixed.
In some cases, farmers preferred to receive training from PBPs or PPLs rather than from their fellow
farmers, who, in their view, provided inferior training. In general, however, studies showed that
farmer-to-farmer training could be successful in promoting IPM principles and practices, provided that the
farmer trainers received adequate support, including frequent visits by IPM field leaders to the farmer-led
FFSs.
A "Satisfactory" rating for quality of training is justified by the degree to which the training improved the
knowledge and affected behavior of participants. The SEARCA impact study attempted to assess the
quality and relevance of training by testing farmers on their natural science knowledge related to IPM. The
study found that farmers who had participated in the IPM field schools achieved significantly higher scores
than non-FFS farmers in correctly identifying insect pests, beneficial arthropods, and crop pest damage on
rice. Other indicators of the quality and effectiveness of IPM training were that higher percentages of FFS
alumni than non-FFS farners had knowledge of banned pesticides, collected rice stem borer egg masses in
seedbeds, and practiced biological control. FFS graduates were less likely to practice calendar spraying
than their non-FFS counterparts. Another indicator of the effectiveness of the training is the finding that
83% of FFS alumni were communicating what they had learned to other farmers.
Farmers' Orpanizations. An important human resources development achievement of the project was that
which took place among farmers who developed skills in group dynamics, collaboration, problem-solving,
and decision-making. This "empowerment" enabled them to form their own IPM farmers' associations and
networks. By the end of the project, significant numbers of village and sub-district IPM farmers'
associations have been organized. Provincial and a national IPM farmers' federations have been
established by FFS alumni. These organizations can represent an effective farmers' lobby to promote IPM.
Participatory Tools. Another positive effect has been the exposure of government trainers and farmers to
participatory training methods used to promote IPM. The FFSs were developed in Indonesia as a training,
not an extension, approach. However, the important participatory tools of involving farmers in planning,
on-farm technology testing, and field monitoring that were stressed in the FFS have been used to improve
extension methods, in contrast to the top-down T&V system. Extension workers were amply exposed to
these new approaches through their IPM training courses and through introduction of IPM FFS training
into the regular extension curriculum of the extension academies. However, even though FFS was found to
be an effective training method for IPM, this should not be seen as a reason to apply FFS to every subject
matter. FFS has its limitations, while several other, simpler and more cost-effective participatory extension
methods exist and/or can be introduced according to specific situations (see Annex 8).
The pest observers have also benefited from the project. While in the past they performed their duties of
pest surveillance and reporting, now they actively interact with farmers and will be well equipped to serve
as pest management subject matter specialists and trainers in plant protection as they are integrated into the
decentralized extension system. Such integration is now taking place.
Health and Environment. The project has also had a beneficial impact on farmers' health and environment,
beyond agricultural production. The fact that farmers use less pesticides and use them more carefully will
-5-



result in less pesticide poisoning to the farmers and their families. There are also beneficial effects on
environmental quality on the farms and beyond. The SEARCA impact study reported that rice farmers
practicing IPM had noticed an increase in the numbers of frogs, fish, and birds in their fields. Those who
had attended IPM FFS were less inclined to discard used pesticide containers in the field, with obvious
downstream environmental benefits. The project also trained district health staff in pesticide poisoning
topics.
*     Supporting Studies and Field Investigations:
The occupational health studies, habitat studies, and gender studies were carried out by the FAO TA team,
which also managed the field studies involving farmers, in six Action Research Facilities. While the habitat
and field studies provided valuable information, these activities were not sufficiently integrated with
appropriate GOI institutions to ensure their continuity at the end of the FAO TA contract. The health
impact study examined the impact of pesticides on women working in agriculture, and was done in West
Sumatra province where women are primary agricultural workers and pesticide use is heavy. Besides the
study results, these activities produced training materials, a network of mid-wives and health personnel
familiar with pesticide health issues, and an epidemiological manual on how to study health effects of
pesticides.
About 121 research contracts were executed, chiefly by universities, AARD research institutes,
universities, and Crop Protection Laboratories of DITLIN. These were related to high priority IPM topics
identified by farmers and IPM field leaders. Results were incorporated into the training program to update
the training curricula, as needed, and to support the farmers' field studies.
The M&E studies on project outputs and outcomes provided some information on project performance and
the quality of FFS training. However, they were done too late in the life of the project to be very useful.
The M&E studies were not coordinated very well with the FAO TA team's effort to develop the project
MIS.
*     Policy Support:
During implementation the Government took a number of significant actions to create a policy environment
conducive to promotion and adoption of IPM concepts and practices. These actions included issuance of
the following regulations and decrees:
V     MOA  decree No. 390/600/5/1994 on the objectives, principles and guidelines to implement
National IPM program;
V/    Government Regulation No.6/1995 to strengthen the legal basis of IPM  program  to be
implemented by the community and the government;
I/    Joint Ministry of Health and MOA Decree No. 881/Menkes/SKB/VIII/1996 to establish maximum
residue limits of pesticides in agricultural products;
/     MOA decree No. 473/TP270/6/96 to stop registration and permit for manufacture and import of
55 insecticides that contain 28 active ingredients for use in crop management, and disposal of 35
pesticides which are not used up within one year of issuance of the decree;
$     MOA decree No. 887/Kpts/OT.210/12/1997 on Guidelines for Crop Pest Control; and
MOA decree No. 949/Kpts/TP.270/12/1998 on Restricted Pesticides.
To strengthen the Indonesian Pesticide Commission's ability to regulate pesticides and improve efficiency
and efficacy of the pesticide registration process, the Government entered into a technical assistance
contract with the United States Environment Protection Agency (USEPA), Office of Pesticide
Management. A Pesticide Management Information System (PMIS) was developed, especially designed
- 6 -



according to Indonesian database in an electronic file system, and staff were trained on the use of
commercial chemical database and accessing the USEPA databases. The USEPA TA team also assisted in
developing training manuals and provided training in:
V     Perspective and risk assessment on the 28 active ingredients banned and reinstated in recent
ministerial decrees.
V      Small quantity pesticide disposal.
/     Safe use of pesticides for the FFS.
The project, in collaboration with BAPEDAL (Environment Impact Management Agency), prepared a
pesticide sector profile for Indonesia and developed and piloted an audit protocol for carrying out
environmental assessment of pesticide facilities as the basis for establishment of a National Pesticide Sector
Environmental Auditing Program. The BAPEDAL has formally adopted the protocol for implementation,
had started to train its staff, and carried out consultations with the pesticide industry representatives.
The SAR called for the project to strengthen the role and function of the Pesticide Commission to enable
the agency to effectively carry out its mandates in relation to regulations and environmental management
framework for pesticides. A technical audit of the project in 1997 pointed out the Commission's lack of
ability to monitor violations and abuses in pesticide formulation, distribution and use, and that there was
no effective laboratory backup system available for monitoring pesticide residues. Subsequently, the
project provided equipment and staff training for upgrading the central pesticide residue laboratory in
Jakarta.
Technical Assistance:
The performance and effectiveness of the FAO TA was mixed. In terms of its contribution to the success
of the project at field level it was highly effective. The concepts of IPM field school on rice were developed
principally by FAO scientists during the pilot phase. Many achievements in training of field leaders, pest
observers, farmer trainers, supporting studies, and the various follow-up activities leading to Community
IPM at sub-district level, and development of farmers' associations, could not have been accomplished
without the dedicated efforts of the FAO TA team. However, local staff, from field leaders to national
officials reported that the FAO TA team worked in an isolated manner. Counterparts to the FAO
international consultants were not identified, and their activities were not well integrated into the national
crop protection and agricultural research institutional structure.  On the other hand, the working
relationships with field staff and farmers was excellent.
The TA contract to develop an M&E system for the project was inordinately delayed but a local
consultancy firm (Pusat Pengembangan Agribisnis) was contracted in October, 1995. As a result of this
delay, and the fact that the MIS (developed by the FAO TA team), was not operational until mid-1 997, an
effective M&E system for the project was not established. Most of the outcome indicators listed in the SAR
were not developed under the M&E contract because it was too late in the project cycle for such
information to be collected and evaluated at appropriate intervals
The contract for international pesticides regulations/environrment experts was delayed because of
difficulties of contracting a US Government entity. Eventually, the services provided by USEPA gave
satisfactory results. In 1999, SEARCA was contracted to carry out an impact evaluation study. This study
was preceded by a pilot impact evaluation study conducted by CIRAD. The latter was financed with
non-project funds. Also in 1999, a local firm was contracted to conduct a feasibility study for a possible
IPM follow-up project to strengthen the National IPM Program.
-7 -



After the FAO TA contract was completed, the project funded four local consultants to assist the PIU.
Addition of these senior persons, who were respected experts in their respective fields (Training,
Entomology, Extension, Economics), to the project office significantly improved project management.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ICR was severely constrained in its attempts to perform an economic analysis by unavailability of
baseline data that would have permitted assessment of farm yields and production costs before and after
IPM training. Similar constraints, including the self-selection bias in the project design, affected the
usefulness of the Impact Evaluation Study conducted by SEARCA (see Annex 8).  Moreover, there are
certain elements of IPM that were difficult to quantify and determine, such as those arising from the impact
of reduced use on people's health, the environmnent and farmers' empowerment.
The ICR mission is aware of an ongoing World Bank Study on the economic aspects of the farmer field
schools in three countries, including Indonesia. This study will provide a more in-depth economic analysis,
using data not available to the mission. The results of this study will soon be available, but not in time to
incorporate into the ICR. Consequently an economic analysis is not included in this report.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This project has had a modest positive impact on institutionalization of the IPM concepts into official
policies and functions and has motivated and empowered trained farmers to press for their continuation.
At national level, the new titles of field staff and regional offices and laboratories of DITLIN reflect these
changes. The title Pest Observer has been changed to "Crop Pest Manager" (POPT). The job descriptions
and functional status of its former Pest Observers have been changed. The Crop Protection Commission
(consisting of plant protection scientists from universities and GOI institutions) has become more active.
Recently, when a new decree was promulgated by the MOA that would have had a negative impact on
IPM, this Commission (along with representatives of IPM fatmers associations and IPM advocacy NGOs)
opposed it, resulting in its imnplementation being postponed indefinitely. Many provincial and district
leaders are now proponents of the IPM concepts.
The changes of attitudes and policies towards greater support of IPM in the MOA is still only partial and is
fragile. While DITLIN and the DGFCH currently tend to favor the IPM approach, other sections of the
Ministry do not support it. Even DITLIN and the DGFCH might change their policies under different
future political leadership.  However, the dynamic organizing among IPM  farmers at the village,
sub-district, district, provincial and national levels, that has resulted from IPM FFS and follow-up
activities is important as a pro-IPM counterweight to any possible policy reversals. This represents an
empowerment of farmers that may be the most lasting institutional development impact of the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic crisis, which affected all of Asia and particularly Indonesia, beginning in 1997, resulted in
delays and reductions of some planned levels of expenditure. Delays in obtaining the services of USEPA
experts resulted more from USEPA policies and staff availability than failures on the part of either the GOI
or the PIU. Some of the responsibility for the delays in finalizing the FAO contract may also lie with FAO,
not the GOI.
-8 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government support for this project was demonstrated by the high priority for its funding in spite of severe
budget constraints during the financial crisis, and the various decrees and regulations issued in support of
IPM concepts and practices. However, budgetary allocations prior to the Mid-Term review were
inadequate.
Organizational issues caused some delays and have affected project management. The project became
effective in July, 1993 with BAPPENAS as implementing agency. In December, 1994 its management was
transferred from BAPPENAS to the MOA's Secretary General's Office. In November, 1994, the Bank's
supervision mission noted many problems in project implementation due to the proposed transfer.
Implementation of various components was delayed, and adjustment to the new institutional culture and
procedures plagued the project for several years. BAPPENAS is the national planning agency, without the
operational capacity or mandate to implement projects. The Government should have recognized at the
time of project preparation that such a major agricultural training project could not remain in BAPPENAS
beyond the pilot phase, and made appropriate plans for an orderly transfer to the MOA prior to appraisal.
The GOI might have taken steps early to improve project management and strengthen the PIU in response
to repeated recommendations of Bank missions. The lack of reliable data especially affects the ability to
draw valid conclusions on the achievement of numerical training targets and economic efficiency.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Overall, the provincial and district implementation units performed satisfactorily, in spite of weaknesses in
central project management which resulted in delays in:
*     submission of project reports, work plans and budgets;
*     contracting TA consultancy services;
*     approvals of budgets and release of funds;
*     procurement; and
*     inadequate coordination (e.g. between the M&E and the MIS activities).
These delays contribute to the fact that the targets for some of the project outputs, such as the number of
IPM trained farmers, were not fully achieved. The apparent misreporting of numbers of farmers trained
can also be attributed to poor management of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project Disbursements. Based on Bank disbursement figures as of May 22, 2000, USD 40.6 million
(including USAID grant amounting to USD 6.7 million) or 77% of the appraisal estimate. In this project,
the Bank actually provided USD 25.2 million or about 62% of the actual expenditure of USD 40.6 million
or about 48% of the total planned project cost of USD 53.0 million. Due to the economic crisis, and after
considering the project progress, a total of USD 6.0 million was canceled in two loan agreement
amendments (in September 1998 and August 1999). The remaining loan balance of USD 0.8 million was
canceled as of May 22, 2000.
Financial audit andfollow up action on audit findings. In the annual audit reports from FYI993/94 to
FY1997/98, the auditors have expressed unqualified opinions in its audited financial reports. However, for
FY1994/95, FY1995/96, and FY1997/98 audited financial reports there were notes from the auditors
regarding some problems which needed to be addressed by project management. The project implementers
acted satisfactorily on the recmmendations of the auditors. On the FY1997/98 Project Account audit report,
the Bank has sent a request for follow up action, to which the Government had responded in a timely
manner. The audit reports for FY1998/99 was submitted to the Bank by BPKP on December 31, 1999
-9-



with unqualified opinion from the auditors. Subsequent clarification on follow-up actions, in response to
the auditor's findings and recommendations, was received on March 31, 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability of project activities is rated as "likely" due to the following factors:
*     There is increasing national and regional knowledge of and support for IPM concepts and practice.
*     A critical mass of farmers have been trained in the field schools using an agro-ecosystem approach
in most districts of the 12 "rice bowl" target provinces where the project was implemented.
*      Over 23,000 farmers have been trained as IPM farmer trainers. With appropriate support and
follow-up training, they could continue to train other farmers and become the core of
farmer-to-farmer dissemination of IPM concepts and practice.
*     Between the IPMTP and the previous pilot project, nearly 1,800 pest observers have been trained
to become IPM experts. In their new role as Crop Pest Managers, they could serve as subject
matter specialists in the Crop Protection sections of district Dinases to provide technical
backstopping to the field extension activities in their work with farmer groups and IPM alumni
associations and networks.
-      IPM FFS alumni and IPM farmer trainers have organized IPM alumni associations and IPM
trainers associations in the project villages; they have formed district IPM communities (networks),
and provincial and national farmers' federations, whose influence is being used to affect pest
management strategies and pesticide policies. In July, 1999, a National Congress of IPM Farmers
was held in which over 500 representatives of IPM farmers' groups met to share experiences and
presented their views to high level government officials.
-     Funding for FFS, in addition to those supported by the project, demonstrate broad support from
Local Government, NGOs, farmers' association and farmer groups. These groups have conducted
and/or funded IPM field schools from FY1991/92 to FY1999/00.
-     In December 1999, the Minister of Agriculture sent a letter to Governors and District Heads
requesting them to allocate funds for IPM activities in the provincial and district budgets. This is
particularly important for future financial support to IPM because of the GOI's policy of
decentralization of functions and revenues.
*      During the implementation of this project in 12 provinces DITLIN had a budget for IPM training
in the other provinces of Indonesia. The existence of this line in the DGFCH budget will facilitate
provision of national funds for post-project IPM training activities.
*      There have recently been several meetings between DITLIN and AARD staff to develop closer
collaboration in research activities in support of IPM. The AARD has agreed to incorporate IPM
in its various research programs and the AARD and DITLIN have agreed on guidelines for
cooperation between the regional Crop Protection Laboratories of DITLIN and the regional
Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology (AIATs) of AARD in support of farmers' IPM
activities.
*     Actions currently underway to integrate the pest observers who served as field leaders in the
project's IPM training as pest management subject matter specialists and trainers in plant
protection in the decentralized extension system is a positive sustainability factor, as this removes
the problems of post-project maintenance of a new government institution.
In spite of these positive developments, sustainability was not rated as "highly likely" because of the
following concerns:
*      Some organizations and programs (e.g. the national food self-sufficiency programs of BIMAS and
Gema palangung) still favor the use of pesticides and include these in credit packages. If a serious
- 10 -



pest outbreak were to occur, these might gain support.
*      IPM farner networks and dissemination of IPM would still require technical and financial support
to continue effectively. However, the recently decentralized district governments may not have
sufficient resources for this purpose.
*      IPM messages have not been fully integrated into the national extension system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A draft "Action Plan for Strengthening the Institutionalization of IPM" has been prepared by DGFCH.
This provides both short-term and long-term plans in relation to policy support, capacity building,
institutional development and linkages, and provision of support to farmers' activities. This document
includes a frank assessment of key issues that need to be resolved in order to fully institutionalize IPM
concepts. What is needed now is a firm commitment from the DGFCH to implement this action plan, and
to address the issues identified.
The project (and its predecessor pilot project) set up a separate, parallel structure at various levels. These
now need to be integrated into the regular operations. The Pest Observers and Field Leaders who worked
in the project are DITLIN staff and were seconded to the Provincial and District Dinas (Agriculture
Support Services) offices when the project was transferred to MOA. After the project, they will return to
the DITLIN regional crop protection laboratories. In discussions with the ICR mission, DITLIN managers
indicated that if decentralization plans of the national govemment proceed as currently envisaged the
national Crop Protection Laboratories and their staff would come under the administrative control of the
respective district and sub-district agricultural offices. This would probably result in a merger of these
units with the Crop Protection sections that now exist in the District Dinases. All of this is still uncertain,
as the newly elected Government has yet to spell out its plans in relation to Law 22, which mandated
decentralization of govermnent functions. The role of the field extension workers, which remained weak in
project implementation, needs to be clarified and enhanced.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
This Bank lending operation has been rated as "Satisfactory". Identification of the project recognized the
opportunities to make a major production, health, and enviromnental impact by building on the activities of
the previous work of the FAO Inter-country Program staff, followed by the USAID-funded pilot project,
replicating these efforts through large scale farmer training in IPM, and by expanding such activities from
rice to secondary crops and vegetables which are heavy users of pesticides. The appraisal mission worked
closely with Government officials in refining the geographic scope, specifying how many persons in each
category would be trained, and indicating the administrative, research, and policy support activities to be
included in the project. The Bank's support, and the external accountability this implies, helped the GOI
resist pressures from pesticide companies to reverse its pest control policies. Nevertheless, the Bank must
assume its share of the responsibility for the unsatisfactory project design (see para 3.5, above).
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project has been rated as "Satisfactory". In addition to the Mid-term
Review, nine supervision missions were carried out by Bank staff. Continuity in leadership of these
missions contributed to excellent follow-up on the missions' recommendations. A careful review of the
reports of these missions found that discussions with GOI officials, visits to many field sites, and clear
recommendations on necessary actions contributed substantially to successful project implementation.
Important implementation problems, such as the absence of effective and integrated M&E and MIS
systems, were repeatedly brought to the attention of project management and Government officials by
-11 -



supervision missions.
In addition to the regular supervision, the Bank contracted two independent teams to carry out technical and
financial management audits of the project in early 1997, in response to some questions raised about
project. The technical audit found that the farmer field school as a training approach was sound. The
financial review carried out by Arthur Anderson found that the project's internal control procedures were
sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the guidelines specified were complied with, although they
noted some weaknesses. These were remedied by actions taken by the Government in 1998 in response to
the recommendations of the two external teams.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance has been rated as "Satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was carried out with assistance from the FAO Investment Center. There was evidence
of significant level of commitrnent of the GOI and awareness among stakeholders of IPM issues. Although,
in retrospect, project preparation has been rated as marginally "Satisfactory" for reasons discussed in
Section 3.5, the technical and environmental aspects were satisfactory. A Government Project Preparation
Team, coordinated by BAPPENAS, worked closely with the FAO and Bank teams during project
preparation. Consultations with farmers including women, policy makers, and other stakeholders were
carried out and relevant results were incorporated in the project design. As noted in para 3.5, however, the
project design was in the institutional capacity aspect.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance has been rated as "Satisfactory". Six new ministerial
decrees issued during project implementation to improve pesticide laws and establish minimum residue
levels provided an enabling environment and policy support to the project and demonstrated the GOI's
continued commitment to its objectives. The large scale replication of a successful pilot project to train
over 600,000 farmers in 155 districts in 12 provinces took extraordinary effort of dedicated field leaders
and coordination of this magnitude needed leadership and comnmitment. Provision of counterpart funds for
farmers training, even during the height of the economic crisis, was commendable.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project has had three implementing agencies. During the first year it was under BAPPENAS, through
its Bureau of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as in the pilot phase. During this period, allocation of funds
and coordination were good, so the implementation progress rating was "Satisfactory"" From the end of
the first year until mid-term the project was under the National IPM Program, administratively attached to
the Secretary General of the MOA. As the National IPM Program is a coordinating body, not a line
organization, many difficulties were experienced in resource allocation and project management. Hence up
to the mid-term, implementation progress was rated as "Unsatisfactory". From mid-term to the final year,
the implementation agency was the Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture, specifically the
Directorate of Crop Protection (DITLIN). From July 1996, the management improved. Thus, in spite of
unsatisfactory performance by the PIU for much of the project life, the overall rating for the sum of the
implementation agencies involved has been rated as "Satisfactory".
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance has been rated as "Satisfactory".
- 12 -



8. Lessons Learned
*     Farmers are keen observers and experimenters; they can, with appropriate training be trusted to
make their own decisions on how to improve their farming practices, and can adopt a complex
technology such as IPM, which is based on knowledge and monitoring of ecological factors.
*     Setting up separate, parallel structures to manage projects is always tempting and seldom leads to
post-project sustainability. The separate national and regional offices of the project and of the
FAO TA team established during the pilot phase continued through the life of the IPMTP. The
national, provincial and district governments are now faced with the challenge of integrating the
district and sub-district project units, the support and guidance provided by the PIU and the FAO
TA team, into their regular operations to ensure sustainability of project achievements.
*     Institutional/organizational arrangements must be clearly defined and necessary adjustments
made before, rather than during, project implementation. If the changes in institutional policies and
staff functions necessary for the MOA and DITLIN had been a condition for negotiations, the
project could have been placed within the Crop Protection activities of MOA from the start of
implementation, and thus have avoided the delays and management problems experienced in the
project.
*     Good baseline data and early implementation of effective M&E  are essential.  The
non-availability of the original database due to computer problems, and late and ineffective
development of an M&E system, contributed to the limitations of the impact evaluation study
carried out towards the end of the project (seen Annex 8).
*     The farmer field school approach is an effective training tool and contains elements of a
participatory extension approach. Although there are still questions regarding the economic
efficiency of FFS as an extension methodology, there can be little doubt that the approach to
farmer training practiced in the IPM FFS has helped introduce a limited number of extension
workers to positive elements of participatory learning, in contrast to top-down extension methods.
e     Farmers' empowerment. The farmer field school approach has empowered farmers to make their
own decisions regarding crop management practices. Pride in a sense of ownership of their
newfound knowledge, the critical numbers of farners trained, and the networking activities
supported by the project, resulted in FFS alumni organizing themselves into IPM farmers'
associations and networks, then federations up to the national level. Inclusion of a substantial
number of women in the project also resulted in the organization of women's groups and their
active leadership in IPM activities.
An additional lesson from the conduct of this ICR, rather than from the project itself, is that a "core ICR"
as defined in the new Bank procedures, is probably not appropriate for a project which has generated as
much interest and controversy as the IPMTP. Allegations regarding the misreporting of project outputs,
e.g. in terms of numbers of IPM trained farmers, could not be confirmed or refuted independently by the
ICR team, which had to rely on secondary data. Time did not permit as detailed an analysis of even the
secondary data as was made by some observers who presented their analysis after the ICR had been drafted
and discussed with the GOI, rather then earlier in the process, when it would have been more useful.
Consequently, it is recommended that the Bank conduct a follow-up, secondary review of the achievements
and the sustained impact of the project at some future date.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
The IPM Program in Indonesia started in the 1970s to address major concerns in crop protection for
the improvement of the country's agricultural plant protection.
In 1986, the President of Indonesia declared IPM as a national crop protection policy and included it
in the country's third Five-Year Development Plan. The decree banned 57 insecticides, phased out pesticide
subsidy for rice, and provided training of extension workers on IPM. This decision was based on research
evidence indicating that there were many problems in past crop protection strategies, particularly in rice.
Because of farmer's excessive and indiscriminate use of chemical pesticides, pest resistance developed and
consequently, resurgent outbreaks occurred. Specifically, heavy loses in rice yield due to brown plant
hopper (BPH) infestations were observed in Java and Sumatra islands.
In 1989, a National Steering Committee, coordinated by the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), was established to manage the pilot phase of the National IPM Training and Development
Program. The pilot program was handled by a committee composed of representatives from the Ministries
of Agriculture, Health, Environment, Home Affairs, Finance and Education and it was coordinated and
implemented by BAPPENAS.
The program was funded by the USAID and it received technical assistance from the FAO. The
program's training component provided knowledge and skills on the application of IPM techniques to pest
observers and farmers in selected provinces. Another component addressed the need to develop a scientific
basis for IPM-related training programs through scientific investigation. In 1992, the World Bank provided
US$ 5 million bridging loan for the pilot project. Implementation of this program involved the Ministry of
Agriculture as well as farmers' organizations. During this phase, about 140,000 farmers were trained using
IPM farmer field school approach.
In 1993, the program was expanded to cover 12 provinces and targeted the training of 800,000
farmers in critical rice-producing provinces. The World Bank and the Republic of Indonesia entered into a
loan agreement (Loan 3586-IND) to implement a five-year IPM Training Project (IPMTP) in 12 provinces
focused on IPM of rice, vegetables and secondary crops. The main goal was to achieve a "critical mass" of
trained farmers, field workers and local government officials necessary to establish IPM as the standard
and sustainable crop protection practice within Indonesian agriculture communities.
Apart from rice, the project also studied the application of IPM in other crops such as soybean,
carrot, shallot, cabbage, potatoes and maize. This caused the surge of research studies to complement the
World Bank's effort, such as the Clemson University Biological Control Project funded by USAID.
In July 1994, the National IPM Program was transferred from BAPPENAS to the Ministry of
- 14 -



Agriculture. By the end of 1994, a new central and provincial management structure had to be established
and operationalized. The National IPM Program, under the Ministry of Agriculture, has been subsumed as
a shared responsibility of four commodity-oriented Directorate Generals, the Agency for Research and
Development, the Agency for Agriculture Education and Training, and the Secretary General of the MOA,
due to the cross-sectoral nature of the IPM program.
Assessment of Project Objectives
The main objective of the project is to train farmers on the principles and application of IPM to
promote a stable agricultural production, particularly rice, and environmentally sound crop production
system. This is carried out by strengthening institutions and providing policy supports to improve the
regulatory and environmental management framework for pesticides to reduce risks associated with their
manufacture, distribution and application. The project was expected to have impacts on foreign exchange
due to reduced expenditures on pesticides, crop yields, environment, human health, and life span of rice
new varieties, as well as increased women's participation in IPM training.
Several studies on the impact of IPM on pesticide applications found that FFS alumni farmers
implementing IPM technology have reduced their use of pesticides significantly. A project impact
evaluation study by SEARCA showed that IPM farmers have reduced about 42% of pesticides cost by
eliminating unnecessary pesticide application. This achievement was still below the estimated SAR target
of 58% reduction in insecticide use. In addition, IPM farmers became aware of the hazards and dangers of
pesticides, and they took safety precautions, such as not spraying during windy weather and storing or
stocking pesticides in an unreachable place. Another health related aspect found by the study was the
reduced incident of illness. Among the six provinces surveyed, the study indicated that IPM farmers have
lower incidence of headache compared to non-IPM farmers. Trained farmers in IPM managed to increase
yield as projected in the SAR and there was a reduced production risk as indicated by a steady production
increase of 1%. Since the IPM program has been launched there have been no major pest outbreaks in rice.
To assess women's participation in IPM training, a study conducted in West Java Province showed
that FFS women did not make many decisions in implementing IPM. Several factors contributing to women
participation were, among others, local culture and value regarding the involvement of women in farm
activities. In West Java, men who were perceive as head of the household, were responsible for all decisions
made in the household including farm activities, and women were mainly responsible for household tasks.
In other regions, however, such as in West Sumatera, both men and women have equal responsibility in
decision making on their farm activities. Therefore, the participation rate of women in IPM practices in
West Sumatera was much higher (47% in FYI 999/00) than in other regions.
As of September 1999, the achievement of the project output based on the number of farmers
trained in: (1) Rice-FFS was about 755,494 (111.6 % of the SAR target); (2) palawija-FFS was about
59,962 (94.1 % of the SAR target); (3) vegetables --FFS was about 55,750 (50.2 % of the SAR target). In
addition to the SAR target, the project has conducted bio-control training for 4,170 farmer trainers, and
special topics based on farmer needs for 43,728 farmers. The number of trainers trained in IPM as follows:
(1) 369 field extension workers was trained in 1 year-IPM training in APPs (176.0 % of the target SAR);
(2) 721 (138.6 % of SAR target) pest observers graduated in D- 1 Program, and (3) 23,072 farmer trainers
participated in TOT. The other outputs of the project specified in SAR were also achieved such as revised
composition of the Pesticide Commission, development of a field management information system in 121
districts, 121 contracted out research, and action research facilities in six locations. The Pesticide
information system was also strengthened through the cooperation with USEPA and five pesticide
manufacturing plants were audited.
- 15 -



In addition to the SAR target, the project was able to provide training for local officials and
laboratory technicians, and provided fellowship to 21 pest observers taking D-3 and S- 1 programs.
The impact indicators which could be measured as direct impact of the project are: (a) reduced
expenditure for pesticides; (b) savings on foreign exchange; (c) reduced pesticide poisoning; and (d)
reduced pesticide pollution. The project was not able to produce data on three indicators during the first
three years of implementation due to late contracting of consultants for M&E. The project also did not
provide funds and appointed field officers to collect data on these indicators on periodic basis so that there
were no data indicating the trend of the achievement of the impact. The other impact indicators such as: (a)
increased yield; (b) reduced production risk or more stable production; (c) increased life span of rice new
varieties; and (d) increased women's participation are the results of many other projects' efforts. They were
not caused only by the IPM Training Project, therefore it needed special indepth study to measure them.
Although the total outputs were reached beyond the SAR's targets, the distribution of FFS and
farmers trained was not well planned among provinces and districts or rice producing areas. The SAR did
not specify the output target by province and rice producing zone.
Assessment of Project Design
The project consisted of three main components, namely: (1) human resource development; (2)
supporting studies and field investigations; and (3) strengthening regulation and management of pesticides.
Technical Assistance component supported the implementation of the above three components.
The human resource development component aimed at improving the ability of farmers and field
leaders in the implementation of IPM practices through FFS and other IPM related training, as well as
support for the management information system. Some FFS alumni farmers in several project locations
were able to train other farmers. Through the project, trained farmer trainers became more closely involved
in what was really happening at the farm level. IPM-FFS methodology used in farmer training has
empowered farmers to be rational and more independent in decision making in their farm activities.
Through FFS, farmers were encouraged to solve their own farm problems by conducting farmer field
investigation on their own farm. This has motivated farmers to become experts in their own farm.
The training program aimed at creating a critical mass to institutionalize IPM in the farming
community. There were three categories of training: (a) Training of Trainers (PHP, PPL, Farmer Trainers);
(b) Training of Farmers (IPM farmer field schools) and (c) Training for FFS alumni. Training of trainers
were controlled fully to conduct all elements of curriculum and methods by accommodating the participants
in Field Training Facilities. In the farner field schools not all farmers attended every week due to
engagement in some community or family activities, working to earn additional income, illness and some
other reasons. Although FFS participants agreed to enhance learning, the average attendance rates were
60% in 1994 and 92% in 1999. The level of knowledge and skills learned during the FFS varied from site
to site depending on the quality of trainers. However, through repeated exercises and discussions, all
participants learned the IPM principles, ecosystem non-pesticide-based cultivation concept, pest and
natural enemy differences, and more rational or low cost production practices. Based on the result of ballot
box tests there were significant differences between the results of pre-tests and post-tests of IPM FFS.
Another benefit gained by 1PM farmers was economic benefit from their farms. Regular farmer
field observation led the farmers to reduce the use of pesticides in the farm resulting in the reduction of
pesticide cost significantly. In addition, some of IPM farmers have been trained on FFS methodology and
- 16 -



can now conduct FFS for other farmers in their own regions. Reports submitted to the project pointed out
that in some areas, IPM farmer trainers have conducted FFS in their own villages. These social benefits
motivated the majority of IPM farmers to sustain and disseminate IPM practice.
This commitment was visualized by the establishment of IPM farmers' networks at village,
sub-district, district and national levels. The major objective of these farners' networks is to exchange
information on IPM-related technology among IPM farmers through various media such as farmer
technical meetings, and to establish marketing network of IPM agricultural product. These farmer networks
are the bases for the establishment of "IPM critical mass". Apart from these project achievements, it is still
questionable whether IPM farmers are able to implement IPM practice without some support from the
government and extension wvorkers. Interviews carried out in several provinces showed that IPM farmers
were not quite confident to conduct IPM FFS using their own sources due to the lack of policy support
provided by the local government for IPM implementation by farmers. The perception on IPM concepts
and principles among local officials were not in common. As a result, IPM institutionalization was often
conflicting with inconsistent government policies. In addition, some of FFS alumni fanners still have low
mastery of IPM practices.
Supporting studies and field investigation aimed to support activities leading to the development of
new and refined IPM practices for more effective implementation of IPM in the field, particularly for rice.
Supporting studies carried out by the project included the following subjects: IPM-related topics to solve
special problems, and socio-economic and program impacts. All studies were contracted to other parties
under the coordination and supervision of the IPM Supporting Research Working Group. In conducting
the studies, several related institutions were involved, such as the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD), universities, BPTPH laboratories, and In-service Training Center (BLPP).
Occupational health study, habitat study and field laboratories were carried out by the FAO Technical
Assistance Team.
A project evaluation result found that many contracted research studies on high priority
IPM-related topics to solve special problems did not meet the specific needs of farmers and farning system.
These studies were designed and implemented with limited involvement of farmers. Starting in the third
year of project implementation, several on-farm participatory research were conducted by contracted
universities. In the future, the conduct of IPM-related studies should be farmer-driven in which farmers
participate more actively in the design, implementation and evaluation of the studies. In addition, the
results of the studies should support training activities of farmers and field workers, and IPM
implementation by farmers.
Strengthening regulation and management of pesticides aimed at supporting an agreed action plan
to strengthen the regulatory and environmental management of pesticides through: (a) strengthening the role
and function of the Pesticide Commission; (2) review pesticide-related regulatory policy; (3) collation and
dissemination of information for pesticide management; and (4) undertaking environmental audit of
pesticide manufacturing facilities.
Advocacy for the policies regulating the distribution and use of hazardous pesticides has been the
major milestone under this component. Another accomplishment achieved by the project was on capacity
building including training of staff on the use of commercial chemical safety devices and the Internet for
accessing USEPA databases. Another significant result under this component was the strengthening of the
Pesticide Commission to carry out the mandatory tasks of recommending pesticide policies to the MOA.
The project impact evaluation study by SEARCA recommended that, to effectively carry out its functions,
the administrative status of the Commission needs to be upgraded.
- 17 -



On environmental audit of pesticide manufacturing facilities, the project has collaborated with
Hagler Bailey Company to carry out a pilot environmental audit of five pesticide manufacturing companies.
Considering pesticide manufacture as an industry in the future, the environmental audit of pesticide
manufacturing plants should be transferred to the National Board for Environmental Impact Assessment
(BAPEDAL) that is responsible for conducting environment audit for the industry. MOA should develop an
environmental audit for farming activities.
On health issues, the application of IPM benefited farmers and other members of the community
significantly. Reduced application of pesticides by farmers had positive impact on the reduction of pesticide
poisoning from 3000 to 1500 cases per year. Population and diversity of organisms in rice ecosystem
increased and less polluted water made fish culture in rice fields possible. Consumers also obtained
agricultural products with less pesticide residue content.
Reduced pesticide application kept balanced ecosystem particularly to sustain natural enemies and
non-targeted organisms, reduced pest resistance to pesticides, and avoid pest resurgence as well as life
span of rice new varieties.
Reviewing the results of the evaluation, it is indicated that IPM dissemination involved mainly FFS
farmers. In addition, FFS follow-up activities were intended mainly for FFS-alumni farmers without
involving non-FFS alumni farmers. Mass media used to promote IPM program was limited to weekly
agriculture tabloid of "Sinar Tani" which was available for pest observers extension workers and some
farmers and through TV and radio programs.
Technical Assistance was provided by the FAO, PPA and individual consultants. The FAO TA
Team contributed significantly to the development of IPM concept and training methodology, preparation
of various manuals and guidelines, the training of trainers and field level managers and participatory
technology development. The working relationship between the FAO TA Team and central level project
management unit was not satisfactory, but the relationship with the provincial and district level trainers
was very close and effective.
The technical assistance to develop a monitoring and evaluation system, provided by PPA, was
delayed. The monitoring and evaluation system was not established until 1997, three years after the
launching of the project. The recommendation on the project monitoring and evaluation were adopted and
applied only in the last three years of project implementation. During the extension period, the PIU was
assisted by several local individual consultants. The individual consultants have contributed significantly
to the implementation of the action plan agreed to complete the project including the extension period.
The design of the project, consisting of three components, namely: (a) human resources
development; (b) supporting studies and field investigation, and (c) strengthening regulatory and
environmental management of pesticide, was appropriate to change the behavior of the farmers. The
support of components (b) and (c) component (b) was very important as input to component (a) in
improving the curriculum and ensuring the quality of training, whereas component (c) was essential for
creating a conducive environment for training and application of IPM concept and practices by trainers
farrners. The above mentioned components were not sufficient to sustain the project. Additional
components are needed, namely; (1) strengthening general awareness campaign and promotion of healthy
and safe food consumption and (2) strengthening institutions to support the application of IPM in safe food
production and marketing. Training of PPLs, through a six-day IPM orientation course, was not sufficient
to sustain IPM implementation by FFS alumni and dissemination to other farmers. Training of PHPs was
- 18 -



effective to introduce participatory IPM training methods but they were not responsible to carry out
day-to-day guidance for farmers after FFS. The strength of the project design is the development of
"critical mass"  under human  resources  development to  ensure  sustainability  of fanner-led
institutionalization of IPM.
Assessment of.the Implementation
Organization and management system. The organization and management (O&M) system of the
IPM Training Project has two phases. The first phase was from 1993 to 1994 when the project was under
the BAPPENAS. The second phase was when the project was transferred to the MOA in 1994. The
transfer of the project had paved the way for the project's integration into the O&M system structure of the
MOA.
The responsibilities for IPM implementation were shared among agencies responsible for training,
extension, research and crop protection. Organizationally, there were three major players of the project,
namely: national agencies, local governments and non-government organizations which include farmer
groups but the later were not involved in planning as intensively as the other two main players. Under the
BAPPENAS, the project was managed centralized by a Secretariat which supervised the finance and
administrative aspects of the project and mobilized inputs to implement the Steering Committee decisions.
At provincial level, a "Kuasa Pimpro" was designated in each province to provide finance and
administrative support to the field activities.
Under the MOA, the management of the project was decentralized and integrated into the "Dinas"
in which some of the central project management finctions were delegated to a "Pimbagpro" at provincial
level. Later, at district level, a 'Kuasa Pimbagpro" was designated to provide finance and administrative
support to the field activities. Furthermore, farmers were given opportunities to conduct field investigations
and FFS by farmer trainers. In addition to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) considering cross sectoral
and cross functional nature of the IPM Program at national level, an IPM Program Implementation Team,
with five Working Groups was established. The working groups were tasked to support the Implementing
Team by supervising all conceptual and technical aspects of the project. The project impact evaluation
study by SEARCA found that these Working Groups did not function as well as expected because no
project funds were allocated for their operational activities. The Working Groups for Research, Education
and Pesticide Management were fairly active. The central PIU has been the main player at central level in
project management and administration for the successful achievement of the project targets although there
were some delays at the beginning of the project implementation.
At provincial level, the Guidance Team did not work well due to lack of supporting funds from the
local government and limited funds were provided from project until later. Likewise, the District Guidance
Team was not also functioning well due to very limited project fund for the team. The forefront of district
project management were Field Leaders (FL), two of whom were responsible in managing the FFS training
and other IPM-related tasks performed by pest observers (POPT). The well trained FL2 and FLI were the
main factors for the successful achievement of the project objective. They worked efficiently without
depending on continuous guidance from the Provincial and Central Guidance Teams and the
Implementation Units. Considering field extension workers under BIPP, in the future the project should be
integrated into this new BIPP structure. District O&M was considered the most strategic since day-to-day
operations and FFS activities were coordinated and controlled at district level. Sub-district O&M was
important because of frontline management of the project was at community level. At sub-district level,
FFS training and follow-up activities were organized by trained POPT assisted by trained field extension
workers and/or farmer trainers.
- 19 -



After many years of effort, the Government finally approved the pest observers as Functional
Officers within the Directorate of Food Crop Protection. It is a recognition by the government of the
important role of Pest Observers for future IPM institutionalization.
Financial management. Originally the tall O&M system introduced by the project has created too
many decision points resulting in the delayed release of the project funds to the field. In addition, the
financial procedure to be met by the project implementers was complicated considering the lack of
experience of project implementation unit personnel on financial management. Consequently, some field
activities were not implemented as planned due to delayed release of funds. To solve this problem, starting
1995, the project fund has been released directly to the district implementing units in some provinces by
appointing a project treasurer and Kuasa Pimbagpro in the district.
Cost and Financi n. Estimated total project cost in the SAR was US$ 53.0 million consisting of
US$32 million Loan, US$14.0 million from GOI and US$7.0 million grant from USAID. Due to changes
in the exchange rates as a result of monetary crisis in 1997-1999, although the cost of activities were
increased in local currency, the cost in IJS dollar was decreased significantly. Up to the completion date of
the project, the total project cost was US$40.6 million. A portion of the loan amounting to US$6.8 million
was canceled without affecting the achievement of the project targets.
During the first three years of implementation, many project activities were delayed due to limited
counterpart funds allocated by the BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance (40% compared to the SAR's
target). After the Midterm Review, the counterpart fund was also provided by the provinces and district
Government (APBD) in addition to the fund provided by the Central Government (APBN). Starting 1997
the Central Government's allocation (APBN) for the IPM Training Project was increased substantially
which increased the training of farmers. The economic crisis did not affect the overall achievement of the
targets although caused some delays in implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation. The objective of monitoring and evaluation in the project were to (1)
evaluate the dissemination of IPM concept and approach among farmers and local government officials; (2)
track the expansion of IPM approach and related technologies among farmers; and (3) evaluate the impact
of IPM on pest management, production, economic and environment factors.
In the SAR, the project monitoring and evaluation system was not determined. The project targets
were not based on collected baseline data during preparation. Although a benchmark study was carried out
in 1993, the computer databases were corrupted. Therefore, it was impossible to measure the impact of the
project by comparing with pre-project conditions. Reports of the baseline survey conducted by CASER
were not available and the original respondents were not interviewed during the impact study. The
monitoring and evaluation system of the project was developed two years after the project implementation,
and was essentially developed under a contract with PPA in 1995. The contract was divided into two
phases: (1) the establishment of an M&E system and identification of key indicator of key indicators
followed by a trial with field implementers; and (2) field application of the M&E system on a limited scale.
The focus of monitoring and evaluation included the quality and targets of IPM-FFS covering the
elements of IPM training, the impact of IPM on yield, cost, pesticide application and profit. In addition, it
covered farmer's group performance, strengths of local initiatives, innovations, modifications/adaptations
of technology, extent of incremental local government and community support for IPM activities, effective
demand for technical monitoring and evaluation were reduced focusing on implementation of FFS learning
process and farmer activities after FFS. Indicators to measure the dissemination of IPM to other farmers
- 20 -



were not developed. Therefore, the quantitative data on IPM dissemination were not available.
Factors Affecting the Implementation of the Project
The factors affecting the implementation of the project and achievement of the project objective
were categorized into:
a)     Factors within the control of the Project Manager
b)     Factors influenced by the Project Manager
c)     Factors outside the control and influence of the Project Manager
Factors that affected the implementation of the project which were within the control of the Project
Manager include: (a) the capacity of the sub-project managers; (b) the capacity of the field leaders; (c) the
capacity of the Central PIU staff; (d) the project management and implementation guidelines; and (e)
project facilities. The Central PIU staff and the sub-project managers were mostly inexperienced and
untrained in managing World Bank-supported project at the beginning of project implementation. They
needed time to get acquainted with and apply financial and procurement procedures. These conditions
caused delays in the beginning of project implementation and they failed to provide support to field leaders.
Project implementation reports were also mostly delayed and failed to meet the deadline. On the other, hand
Field Leaders 1 and 2 were well-trained and have sufficient experience in implementing field activities were
already available at the beginning of the project which facilitated project implementation. The capacity for
financial administration differed from one province to the other which caused delays in delivering funds to
the field offices. The project also did not have funds to provide facilities project offices at the district and
sub-provincial levels.
Factors which influenced the Project Manager's ability to support the implementation of the project
include: (a) support from executing agencies; (b) support from state financing agencies; and (c) support
from local government and community leaders. The executing agencies supported the project management
through allocation of annual budget, approval of contracts, assignment of staff and provision of overall
guidance. In the first three years of project implementation, the budget allocated to the project were below
the SAR target. It did not happen to the IPM Training Project only, but also to other govermment projects
as well. The executing agency's ability to allocate sufficient budget was limited by the budget allocated by
the higher level agencies (BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance). After hard effort of the project and
sub-project managers, the budget for subsequent year from APBN and APBD were increased. After
learning from experience and building better relationships with state financing officers, the delivery of
funds was improved.
The factors that are beyond the influence of the Project Manager were mainly related to the
national level policy. The fiscal year which did not fit the cropping seasons, affected the implementation of
project activities which have to be implemented according to planting seasons. The development policies
which were not in line with IPM concept and principles affected the support of other agencies for the
widespread adoption of IPM practices by farners.
Economic Rate of Return
The decision making regarding the worthiness of the IPM Program is done by calculating the NPV
value of the program. However, the IRR value of the IPM program will also be analyzed.
- 21 -



The assumption in calculating the NPV is as follows:
1)    The number of FFS participants
2)    The estimated average area of crops from the farmers who participated in the FFS each year
3)    Data and inflation rate that were used is as follows:
Inflation Rate in Indonesia
93-94                       0.07
94-95                       0.09
95-96                       0.09
96-97                       0.05
97-98                       0.34
98-99                       0.45
99/00                       -0.04
Average                     0.15
4)    Palawija farners who implement IPM  were considered beneficial as the rice farmers who
implement rice IPM.
5)    Benefit estimate of the farmers who implement the IPM outside beyond 1999 is estimated by using
inflation rate.
6)    The social discount rate is considered the same as the inflation rate.
7)    The delay for a period of one year from the issue of the implementation fund for IPM program with
the result; in other words, the farmers who had graduated from IPM field School will be able to
implement IPM independently one year after attending the FFS.
8)    Total benefit value estimation is the benefit of each fanner per ha times the number of the farmers
who had graduated from FFS times the average land of the farmers who had attended Farmers
Field School with the total FFS farrners
The result of the NPV estimation in this analysis shows quite a large spectrum, from positive Rp.
164,723 million to minus Rp. 106,370 million. The estimation of the average value of the NPV of the IPM
National Program is Rp. 8,997 million with IRR around 32.64 percent.
Future Operation and Sustainability
The project has created a "critical mass" of 914,934 trained farners in IPM, 23,012 IPM farmer
trainers, 676 trained PHPs and 1,427 trained PPLs in 12 provinces. These cadres of IPM trained persons
are expected to sustain the institutionalization of IPM. Trained IPM farmers have disseminated IPM to
neighboring farmers who did not have the opportunity to attend IPM FFS through weekly or biweekly
farmer group meetings. The IPM farmer trainers were expected to continue to train other farmers in FFS
funded by the local community or local government. These groups have started to allocate funds during the
last three years of the project implementation. Most of the project district's contribution ranged from Rp 10
million to 30 million per district. Farmers conduct studies to develop locally specific technology which will
solve problems faced by the farmers. In the future, IPM Farner's Association which were established
recently, will take over more government responsibility in expanding and strengthening institutionalization
of IPM and hence the "IPM by Farmers".
-22 -



At the sub-district level, the trained PHPs and PPLs will form an IPM extension team. This team will
sustain the institutionalization of IPM in each sub-district. This team will support the activities of the IPM
farmer trainers including farmer studies, action research facility, farmer technical meetings and facilitating
the development of agribusiness partnership in pesticide residue-free production and marketing. The IPM
institutionalization had also been included in the annual extension program at sub district level, which
under the decentralization policy, starting FY2000, will be financed by APBD II.
The IPM concept and activities will be mainstreamed in agriculture development projects and
socialization of IPM concept to government officials at central, provincial and district level have also been
carried out through seminars, symposium and periodic management meetings. These officials are expected
to incorporate the IPM principles in formulating crop production strategies, agribusiness partnership of
IPM farmer groups and business companies on pesticide-residue free products which had also been
implemented in several areas will sustain the application of IPM concept and technologies.
Evaluation of Bank Performance
The World Bank sent nine supervision missions during the implementation of the project and a
Midterm Review was carried out after two and a half years of implementation. As a whole, the Project
Manager and staff and the provincial sub-project managers benefited by the visits of the supervision
missions.
The supervision mission leader and members provided necessary information on procedures and
informed the project management staff on activities to be performed to comply with the loan covenants.
Discussions between World Bank supervision missions and the Project Manager and staff, were beneficial
particularly in improving the implementation of project activities. The Project Manager and staff have
learned much from the contact with experienced members of the supervision mission. In many cases the
supervision missions often facilitated the solution of problems faced by the project staff.
Lessons Learned
The IPMTP succeeded in institutionalizing IPM concept and practices among farmers. The
participatory FFS model brought farmers and government workers together in a learning process, which
improved their confidence and decision making skills. Farmers' innovative and creativeness in addressing
their crop production constraints indicated that farmers were able to perform roles of experimenters,
trainers and rationale managers.
Through FFS and follow-up activities, the farmers were able to develop stronger partnerships with
other stakeholders leading to more sustained IPM activities. These stakeholders become active participants
in applying IPM principles and practices through partnerships in the production and marketing of IPM
products that lead to sustainable agriculture and development. Institutionalization of IPM concepts could
be sustained through profitable economic activities after completion of IPM training.
The farmers learned that food self sufficiency can be sustained not by applying high cost-chemical
input technology, but by applying agro-ecosystem-based and low cost production practices. The farmers
could benefit more by applying low-cost agro-ecotechnology and not necessarily by high cost intensive
production practices.
The achievement of project objective was determined mostly by the abilities and motivation of field
level officers and less by the central level support unit and management. Decentralized project management
- 23 -



is more effective and efficient in dealing with changing economic and local social conditions. Strong
centralized management unit was not essential for local managers and implementers. To facilitate
monitoring and evaluation of a project, preparation and appraisal reports should include baseline data, key
performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation system.
To ensure sustainability of the farmers' capacity building project, agricultural extension institution
and farmers have to be involved and play major role in the implementation of the project. There must be
sustainable collaboration between extension and research, regulatory and service institutions as well as the
private sector.
To avoid delays in project implementation, sufficient pre-implementation activities to train candidates
for project management and staff, to prepare project management manuals and to establish organization for
project implementation have to be carried out.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
AS OF MAY 2000
No.                  Component                       SAR        Actual      % to
Target    (US$000)   SAR
(US$000)
I.    Human Resource Development
a. Training of Pest Observers, Ext. Worker     32,200      31,700       98
and Farmer's Training
b. Management Information Systems               1,100       1,440      131
II.   Supporting Studies & Field Investment
a. Occupational & Habitat Studies                900          430       48
b. Action Research Facilities                     500         430       86
c. 1PM Research Commission                       300          430      143
d. Mapping Databases
III.   Policy Support (Aspect)
a. Environmental audit                           600          570       95
IV.  Technical Assistance                             9,600       5,600        58
Base Costs                                     45,200      40,600       90
Physical Contingencies (17.26%)                 7,800
Total Project Costs                            53,000
- 24 -



PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
AS OF MAY 2000
No.    Expenditure Category       Actual/Latest Estimate by Procurement Method (US$000)
ICB        NCB         Other        NBF         Total
I.  Training
SAR                      0            0      27,000        8,300       35,300
Actual                   0            0       31,700           0       31,700
II.  Equipment
SAR                    200          600           0         200         1,000
Actual                 300         1,400          0          100        1,800
III.  Consultants
SAR                      0            0       11,200           0       11,200
Actual                   0            0        5,600           0        5,600
IV.  Project Admin. Cost
SAR                      0            0           0        5,500        5,500
Actual                   0            0            0       1,500        1,500
Totals
SAR                   200          600       38,200      14,000       53,000
Actual                 300        1,400      37,300       1,600       40,600
PROJECT FINANCING BY CATEGORY
AS OF MAY 2000
No.     Project Expenditure             Actual/Latest Estimate (US$000)
Bank       USAID        GOI          Total
I.  Training
SAR                  22,100       4,900        8,300       35,300
Actual               20,100        4,200       7,400       31,700
II.  Equipment
SAR                     700         100         200         1,000
Actual                 1,100        600         100         1,800
III.  Consultants
SAR                   9,200        2,000          0        11,200
Actual                3,900        1,700          0         5,600
IV.   Project Admin. Cost
SAR                       0           0        5,500        5,500
Actual                  100         200        1,200        1,500
Totals
SAR                  32,000       7,000      14,000       53,000
Actual               25,200       6,700       8,700       40,600
(1) Cofinanciers:
USAID, despite its disappointment with the delays encountered in financial report and refund of USAID
funds, recognized the critical role of the FAO Technical Assistance Team to the success of the IPM
-25 -



Training Project. The quality of IPM training in Indonesia, which is Internationally recognized, is due to
the contribution of the FAO team. IPM Training through FFS, which is designed by the FAO team to
respond directly to farmer needs and to empower farmers to marshal the resources they need to conduct
their affair, made farmers became capable of organizing and leading efforts to achieve their common goals.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indIc__ ! atrlx                    Pro).t  I last PSR           i        Actu",ateet Estimat
Increased yield of Rce and secondary crops  Increase in yield of 1.5% in nce; 3.0% in  Percent yield increment for farmers who
(soybean) for farmers practicing IPM.  soybean for farmers practicing IPM.  participated in IPM FFS vs those who did
not:
Range    Mean
Rice:     -8 to 28    10.7
Soybean  -9 to 93    26.9
Reduced use of pesticides in rice, secondary Significant reduction in pesticide applications *In March/April, 1999, both FFS and non
crops (soybean) and vegetables.       on rice, soybean and vegetables (cabbage,  FFS farmers stated they used less
potato, onion).                       pesticides in the current season than the
previous one. Farmers who participated in
IPM FFS have reduced their pesticide use on
average 35% vs only 25 % by those who had
not. Between season pesticide use
reduction on soybean was 45% and 22% for
FFS and non FFS farmers.
*Significant reduction of pesticide use
following participation in IPM FFS is also
reported for vegetables, but specific data
were not available.
TPercent reduction in expenditures on
pesticides for rice farmers who participated
in IPM FFS vs those who did not:
Range     Mean
Rice:      -10 to 41   24.1
Improved health of farm workers; reduced    Reduced health hazard to farmers and high  *Health studies showed improved health after
pollution due to excessive pesticide use,    risk groups such as spray operators,  farmers reduced spraying. Safe pesticide
especially on rice.                  including women; reduced pesticide     application methods are also more frequently
contamination in water, farm animals and    practiced by IPM FSS alumni than by other
fish; increased biodiversity in farms.  farmers.
*The 1999 Impact Evaluation Study did not
include environmental aspects; however,
FFS alumni reported increases in numbers
of beneficial insects and frogs and that they
can now grow fish in their felds because
they had stopped spraying. An implied
environmental impact was also revealed in
the study finding that less FFS alumni (37%)
disposed of pesticide containers in the field
compared to non-FFS farmers (29%).
Note: Source for comparisons between FFS and non-FFS farmers: SEARCA Impact Evaluation Study, 1999.
- 27 -



Output Indicators:
Ind"itrlMatrix                       Projectld in last PSR:j   i              Actat   atest Es0mate    :
Number of farmers (majority are nce     *At least 800,000 farmers trained. Of these, 914,934 farmers trained. Of these, 562,575
farmers) trained in IPM, using the farmer    630,000 would be trained by trained pest    were trained by trained pest observers and
field school (FFS) approach.            observers and extension worker.          extension workers, and 338,684 were
*The target for total number trained was  trained by farmer trainers. Total numbers of
revised to 796,438 at Mid-term.         farmers trained, by crop:
Rice:          755,494
Soybean:        59,962
Vegetables:     55,750
Other topics*:   43,728
*rats, tungro, biological control,
follow up FFS.
Note: From GOI reports.
Number of trainers completing trainers'  25,000 farmer trainers (revised to 19,979    23,012 farmertrainers, 676 pest observers
training (farmer trainers, pest observers, field when project was transferred to MOA), 520  and 1,427 extension workers trained.
extension workers).                     pest observers trained as IPM FFS trainers,  Additionally, 369 extension workers received
and 1,110 extension workers given       additional year of IPM training at the APPs.
orientation training in IPM. In addition 210   666 staff and farmer trainers were given
PPLs would be trained in IPM during an  training as biological control trainers.
additional year at extension training schools
(APPs)
Percent of women trainees in FFS, but   Overall, about 30% of trainees were women, Overall percentage achieved was 22.3
expected to vary across locations.      but expected to vary across locations.   (ranging from 6% in Bali to 36% in West
Sumatra). Over 25% of trainees were
women in six provinces.
Regulatory and environmental management  Pesticide Commission strengthened;      Most changes in Pesticide Commission not
of pesticides strengthened.             problematic pesticides reviewed and legal   implemented; three Minister's decrees
measures taken; MIS for pesticide       passed in 1994 and 1996 improving
management improved; environmental audit  pesticide laws; MIS for pesticides developed
of pesticide facilities caried out.     with protocols for environmental audit of
pesticide facilities developed and piloted.
Number of support activities carried out:  Occupational health and habitat studies  18 occupational health and habitat studies
occupational health and habitat studies,  carried annually; 6 ARFs established; 25  carried out; 6 ARFs established, with
establishment of action research facilities    research contracts carried out annually;  management transferred to farmers'
(ARFs), IPM research and dissemination of  mapping of rice areas of Java completed.    associations; 121 IPM research contracts
results.                                                                         awarded; rice area maps for Java completed.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proj ect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisa1     AtuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million     US$ million
I. Human Resource Development
a. Training                                              32.20            31.70            98
b. MIS                                                    1.10             1.44            131
II. Supporting Studies and Field Investigations
a. Health and Habitat Studies                             0.90             0.43            48
b. Field Laboratories                                     0.50             0.43             86
c. Contract Research and Mapping                          0.30             0.43            143
III. Policy Support                                       0.60             0.57            95
IV. Technical Assistance                                  9.60             5.60             58
Total Baseline Cost                                      45.20            40.60
Physical Contingencies                                   7.80             0.00
Total Project Costs                53.00            40.60
Total Financing Required                 53.00            40.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditur Category       ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.20          0.60          0.00         0.20           1.00
(0.17)        (0.49)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.66)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         11.20         0.00          11.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (9. 1 9)      (0.00)        (9. 1 9)
4. Training                   0.00          0.00         27.00          8.30         35.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (22.15)       (0.00)       (22.15)
5. Project Administration     0.00          0.00          0.00         2.20          2.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Taxes and Duties           0.00          0.00          0.00          3.30         3.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.20          0.60          38.20        14.00         53.00
(0.17)        (0.49)       (31.34)       (0.00)       (32.00)
Note: Goods refer to equipment.
-29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.30           1.40           0.00           0.10            1.80
(0.20)         (0.90)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.1 0)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           5.60           0.00            5.60
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.90)         (0.00)         (3.90)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           31.70          0.00           31.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (20.10)         (0.00)        (20.10)
5. Project Administration        0.00           0.00           0.00            1.50           1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0. 10 )       (0.00)         (0. 1 0)
6. Taxes and Duties              0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.30            1.40          37.30           1.60          40.60
(0.20)         (0.90)        (24.10)         (0.00)        (25.20)
Note: Goods refer to equipment
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
"tIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project finds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Equipment                 0.70      0.20      0.10       1.10       0.10      0.60    157.1   50.0  600.0
Training                 22.10      8.30      4.90       20.10      7.40      4.20     91.0   89.2   85.7
Consultants               9.20      0.00      2.00       3.90       0.00      1.70     42.4   0.0   85.0
Taxes and Duties          0.00      3.30       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Project Administration    0.00      2.20       0.00      0.10       1.20      0.20     0.0   54.5   0.0
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The ICR mission is aware of an ongoing World Bank Study on farmer field schools in three countries,
including Indonesia. This study will provide a more in-depth economic analysis, using data not available to
the mission. The results of this study will soon be available, but not in time to incorporate into the ICR.
Consequently an economic analysis is not included in this report, although several attempts were made by
the ICR mission using field data from the SEARCA Impact Evaluation Study. Constraints were met on the
unavailability of baseline data, self-selection bias in the project design, and the difficulty of quantifying the
impact of IPM on people's health, the environment, and farmers' empowerment (social costs).
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions. _
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         5   A,B,C,D,F
10/92
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/92                         5)   C(2), D(2), H
Supervision
11/93                         5  A/E, C(2), D, G                       S                  S
07/94                         .5  A/E. C(2), F, G                      U                  S
03/95                          3  A/E, C, F/G                          U                  S
09/95                          7  A(2), B, C, D, E, F/G                 S                 S
06/96                          4  A/E, C(2), F/G                        S                 S
03/97                          4  A, C(2), F/G                          S                 S
09/97                          4  A, C, F/G, E                          S                 S
06/98                         3  A/E, C(2)                              S                 S
01/99                         3  A/E, C, F/G                            S                 S
09/99                          4  A/E, C(2), F/G                        S                 S
ICR
12/99                         5   A/E,B,D,F,G
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
_ __  No. Staff weeks           u.Js$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               54.5                        93.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    32.2                        106.3
Supervision                             171.3                       528.8
ICR
Total
No figures available for ICR as data not available in SAP.
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
E3 Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
F Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3Environmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                  O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Lending                                          OHS OS   Oiu  OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
1 Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
13 Preparation                                      OHS OS  O  U  O HU
0 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  O U  0 HU
J Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 34-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Andreasen, Jude. 1999. Pesticide Regulatory Development Project, Registration/Re-registration.
Trip Report of Technical Assistance, US Environmental Protection Agency.
Anonymous. 1999. The Indonesia IPM Farmers' Congress, 16-21 July, 1999, Yogyakarta, by the
Indonesia IPM Farmers' Congress Organizing Committee.
Deybe, Daniel & Maurice Vaissayre. 1998. Study on the Indicators for a Field Evaluation of
IPMTP in Indonesia, CIRAD.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 1997(a). Community IPM and Impact Analysis, FAO-
IPM Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1997(b). Semi-annual Work plan FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1997(c) Health Effects of Pesticide Use Among Women Spray Operators in West Sumatra,
Indonesia. FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1998(a). Final Semi-Annual Progress Report. FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team,
Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1998(b). Report on International Conference on Pesticide Use in Developing Countries: Impact on
Health and Environment. FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1998(c). The Progress Annual Report FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1998(d). Community IPM: Six Cases from Indonesia FAO-IPM Technical Assistance Team,
Jakarta, Indonesia.
-1999(a). Third Progress Report, the FAO Program for Community IPM in Indonesia.
-1999(b). Technical Assistance to the Integrated Pest Management Project, Indonesia. Project
Findings and Recommendations. Rome.
Fleischer, G., F. Jungbluth, H. Waibel, J. C. Zadoks. 1999. A Field Practicener's Guide to Economic
Evaluation of IPM. A Publication of the Pesticide Policy Project.
Kingsley, Mary A. and S. S. Siwi. 1995. Increasing Women Farmers' Access to IPM Activities:
Preliminary Report of the Gender Study. Jakarta.
-1997. Gender Analysis, Agricultural Analysis and Strengthening Women's Leadership
Development in the National IPM Program, Jakarta.
-1998. Women Farmers' Participation and Leadership in the Indonesian National IPM Program:
Final Impact Study of Gender Issues.
- 35 -



Ministry of Agriculture. 1996. IPM by Farmers. The Indonesian IPM Program, World Food Summit FAO,
Jakarta.
-1999 (a). Implementation Progress Report, Integrated Pest Management Training Project,
Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture, Jakarta.
-1999(b). Project Review From Borrower's Perspective, Prepared for the World Bank ICR Mission,
Implementation Completion Report, Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture, Jakarta.
Pt. Amurwa Pranata Consultants. 1999. Feasibility Study and Project Preparation for Expanding and
Strengthening the Institutionalization of Integrated Pest Management on Food Crops and
Horticulture. Final Report, Volumes 1 and 2., Jakarta.
Pusat Pengembangan Agribisnis. 1998. Report: Impact Evaluation of Integrated Pest Management
Training Project, Jakarta.
Prasetio Utomo (Arthur Andersen). 1997. Technical Audit. Jakarta, Indonesia.
Pontius, John. 1998. Data From 183 IPM Sub-districts. A Summary of Case Studies Submitted by 29
UKWs. FAO Technical Assistance Team, Jakarta.
Programs in Asia. World Education, Boston, MA.
South East Asian Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture. 1999. Integrated Pest
Management Training Program: Impact Evaluation Study. Final Report, Volumes I and 2,
Jakarta.
Schillhom van Veen, Tjaart W., Douglas A. Fomo, Steen Joffe, Dina L. Umali-Deininger and Snajiva
Cooke. 1997. Integrated Pest Management. Strategies and Policies for Effective Implementation.
ESD Studies and Monograph Series 13.
Schmidt, Peter, Jan Stiefel and Maja Hurlimann. 1997. Extension of Complex Ideas: Success Factors in
Integrated Pest Management. SKAT, Swiss Center for Development Cooperation, St. Gallen,
Switzerland.
Siwi, Sri Suharni. 1999. Gender Perspective in IPM Program: Final Study on Women Farmer's
Participation and Leadership in the Indonesian National IPM Program, Jakarta.
Ter Weel, Paul and Harry van der Wulp, undated. Participatory Integrated Pest Management. Policy and
Best Practice Document 3, Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation.
World Bank. 1992. Indonesia: Integrated Pest Management Training Project (IPMTP). Appraisal Mission
Aide Memoire. Washington, D.C.
-1993(a). Staff Appraisal Report. Indonesia: IPMTP. Washington, D.C.
-1993(b). Loan Agreement: IPMTP. Washington, D.C.
-1993(c). Implementation Assistance report: IPMTP (Loan 3586-IND), Washington, D.C.
- 36 -



-1994(a). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1994(b). IPMTP. Amendment to Loan Agreement. Washington, D.C.
-1994(c). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1995(a). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1995(b). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1996. IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1997(a). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1997(b). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1998(a). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1998(b). OP 4.09-Pest Management. Operational Manual. Washington, D.C.
-1999(a). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1999(b). IPMTP. Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C.
-1999(c). OP 4.01- Environmental Assessment. Operational Manual. Washington, D.C.
-1999(d). New OP/BP 13.55 - Implementation Completion Reporting. Operational Manual.
Washington, D.C.
- 37 -



Annex 8. Key Issues
Because of the strong interest in IPM around the world, as well as the fact that the Indonesia experience
has been considered by many to be one of the leading examples of the successful implementation of IPM
concepts and practices, this project has attracted a great deal of attention, with concomitant controversy.
This Annex addresses some of the key issues around which the controversy has revolved, and, to the extent
possible, gives the views of the ICR mission on them. The achievements of the IPM Training project are
discussed in the body of this report, and will not be repeated here.
Pest Control Paradigms
In general terms, various approaches to pest control can be placed into the following categories:
*     High Input Package.  Often referred to as the "green revolution" approach, this paradigm calls
for the use of high yielding varieties together with high levels of inputs, particularly fertilizers and
pesticides. Under this approach, pest control normally consists of preventive treatments on a calendar
basis.  Pesticides are often made available at low, subsidized prices, and their use may be tied to the
availability of credit. In Indonesia, a common feature was to maintain stocks of pesticides, with organized
pest control "brigades" to combat pest outbreaks in a region. This approach was seen to have contributed to
severe outbreaks of the Brown Plant Hopper in 1986, which resulted in massive pesticide usage, at high
financial health and environmental costs, and threatened sustainability of rice production in Indonesia. This
motivated the GOI to support IPM.
a     Integrated Pest Management (aPM).  This approach aims to minimize the use of pesticides
through a combination of practices, including: conservation of natural enemies, biological control, varietal
resistance, and cultural control practices. Use of pesticides is not excluded, but is considered a "last
resort" measure when alternative measures fail. In such cases, the IPM approach advocates use of
chemical or botanical pesticides that minimize harm to natural enemies and other non-target species, and
are less damaging to human health and the environment. Within the IPM paradigm two approaches have
been emphasized.
-     Use of Economic Thresholds. This has been an essential tool for most IPM programs. Under this
approach the use of pesticides is recommended when the population of the specific pest approaches a level
that research has shown will cause economic loss greater than the cost of control measures. More
advanced versions of this methodology include consideration of the populations of natural enemies as well.
-     Aaro-ecosvstem Analysis. This concept of IPM was developed for rice in Indonesia in response to
the serious outbreak of the Brown Plant Hopper, in spite of (and, as research revealed, due to) massive
insecticide applications. With the agro-ecosystem analysis approach, the decisions on pest management
interventions are made by the farmers based on their intimate understanding of, and a careful monitoring of
what is changing in, the ecosystems of their crops. This was the approach promoted by the project.
These two approaches are not mutually exclusive. In crops, such as vegetables, for which some
pesticide application is ofteen necessary, fanners who have been trained in agro-ecosystem analysis
also count disease symptoms, insects and natural enemies and employ economic thresholds. In the case
of rice in Indonesia, however, with the high degree of resistance to most pests bred into new varieties, it
is often possible to grow a good crop without the use of any pesticides. Indeed, the use of pesticides is
one of the principal causes of pest outbreaks. Under these conditions, the "economic threshold" and "
agro-ecosystems" approaches represent more a matter of historical progress in pest management than
one of complementary approaches. The appointrnent of Pest Observers (PHPs) and development of a
surveillance system represented important progress away from preventative, calendar-based
- 38 -



applications of pesticides, However, in the case of rice, this system was seen by IPM experts as still
relying too heavily on chemical control. This stimulated the development of the agro-ecosystem
approach.
*     No Pesticide Use.  This approach, sometimes erroneously confused with IPM, advocates not
using any pesticides at all. It carries with it the risk of serious crop loss, but has the potential advantage of
selling the products at a premium as "pesticide free". Unfortunately, some of the teaching in the rice FFSs
has tended to promote a "no pesticide use" approach, as it usually turns out that in rice this is the best
practice. This, however imparts the wrong message to farmers about what IPM is, and can have dangerous
results, particularly as farmers apply what they have learned to crops other than rice.
All of these paradigms are present to some degree in Indonesia, creating confusion among farners.
BIMAS has advocated the high input approach. This was reportedly also true for the Crop Protection
Directorate of the DGFCH (DITLIN) in its earlier years. At one time its pesticide stocks were purchased
from an "outbreak" budget. In 1991, the Pesticide Sub-Directorate of DITLIN was eliminated and two
new Sub-Directorates of Food Crop IPM and Horticulture IPM were established. Following extensive
discussions with GOI officials, the ICR mission believes that the DITLIN leadership and structure now
support the IPM paradigm.
During project preparation it was considered essential that the functions and titles of the former pest
observers be modified as a means of ensuring that the work of the PUPs in managing FFSs would be
recognized, and to move them away from their surveillance and forecasting activities. This change was a
covenant provision in the Loan Agreement. In September, 1999 a decree was finally issued to this effect.
Both the long delay in meeting this commitment, as well as the nature of the final product, were
disappointing. The status of PHPs (now called "Crop Pest Managers" (POPTs) has improved as their new
"functional" classification will introduce greater flexibility in assigning them to new tasks without the
time-consuming process of issuing decrees. However, the current description of their duties still heavily
emphasizes their surveillance and forecasting responsibilities, with only slight reference to IPM.
While the IPMTP was administered during the last several years under DITLIN, the National IPM
Program remains under the Secretary General's Office of the MOA. This is due to the fact that the
National IPM Program is a coordinating mechanism that deals with more than food crops and horticulture.
Currently there is an ADB-funded IPM Estate Crops Project implemented by the Directorate General of
Estate Crops which was transferred to the Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops during the 1998
reorganization of the Government.
Institutional Factors
The foregoing description of the historical development of pest control paradigms in Indonesia is relevant to
the way the IPMTP was organized and the sustainability of these efforts in the future. The natural home
for a pest management project focused on food crops and vegetables would obviously be DITLIN.
However, in 1989 when the first IPM Training Program was developed, with assistance of experts from the
FAO, the perception by the FAO experts was that the MOA in general, and DITLIN in particular, were too
pesticide-oriented to be compatible with the promotion of IPM activities. Consequently the pilot project
was placed under BAPPENAS.
When the World Bank supported project was designed, the SAR (which mentioned that one of DITLIN's
weaknesses was that "its control recommendations depend largely on the use of pesticides") indicated that
the existing institutional arrangements with BAPPENAS would continue. However, as a planning agency,
BAPPENAS met difficulties in managing such projects. Thus, the project was transferred to the MOA in
- 39 -



December, 1994. There it was placed under the National IPM Program, which was attached to the
Secretary General's Office of the MOA. This was considered to be a good transitional home for the
project, as not only agricultural production, but also health, environment and trade issues were involved,
and the National IPM Program came under an inter-ministerial IPM Steering Committee. For clarity of
management authority and institutional sustainability, however, it was essential that eventually the project
would come under a line agency. The project was finally placed fully under DITLIN in 1997. Probable
reasons why this was not done at the very outset of the project include: (a) DITLIN is a Directorate of the
Department of Food Crops and Horticulture, while the project also involved other Departments responsible
for extension and research; (b) this was chiefly a training project, so some argued that it did not belong in a
plant protection unit but instead in a training unit (AAET); and (c) perceptions regarding the orientation of
DITLIN, as described, persisted.
Jurisdiction for its management was not the only institutional challenge faced by the project. The project
could be described as revolutionary. It was placing a large participatory extension training activity
explicitly aimed at empowerment of farmers to make independent decisions into an institutional
environment dominated by well-known problems of accountability and good governance. The project's
concepts challenged a number of technical and institutional paradigms, such as the need for insecticide use
in rice intensification, instruction of farmers versus empowerment, and the role of strong government
intervention in agricultural modernization. That the project achieved so much in the face of such challenges
is remarkable.
Farmers Field Schools: Effectiveness and Efficiency
The farmer-based, knowledge-intensive agro-ecosystem analysis approach developed in Indonesia depended
on a revolutionary new methodology for training farmers. In response to the challenge of how to enable
relatively uneducated farmers to apply the scientific principles of ecology and integrated pest management,
the FAO team and their Indonesian colleagues developed the Farmer Field School approach as a training
method. Through a season-long field experience, farmers gain knowledge not by being taught it, but by
learning how to discover things for themselves.  This methodology was considered essential for
agro-ecosystem based IPM. Because of the complexities of training farmers to be practical ecologists,
traditional extension methods , especially the T&V system followed in the country, was not appropriate.
The same may also be true for Integrated Crop Management (ICM). Indeed the IPM FFSs have to some
extent incorporated ICM, as the farmers, while assessing the health of their crops necessarily learn how to
improve cropping practices such as fertilizer use, water management, and weed control.
Various case studies in Indonesia and the SEARCA Impact Study have shown that the FFS approach is
effective. However, this approach is highly staff-intensive and farmer time-intensive. Thus, questions have
been raised about its efficiency. Other concems are its limited practical utility when seen against the heavy
work load of extension workers, farmers' extension needs beyond IPM, and the fact that no matter how
effective an extension and training approach is for a given situation, it will always fall short of universal
application due to situational differences. WAhile the FFS approach appears to be appropriate for IPM (and
possibly ICM), this observation should not be used to promote FFS as the new panacea for all agricultural
technology transfer activities, where other participatory extension methods may be more cost-effective,
particularly for technical subjects not requiring season-long training in agro-ecosystems. Currently a
Bank-supported study is evaluating the FFS as an extension methodology in several countries, including
Indonesia. Even as IPM FFS activities continue, other, less costly means of dissemination of IPM
practices should be explored by the Government. For example, the mission understands that in the IPM
network coordinated by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), there is a simpler, easier to
disseminate, message for rice.  The effectiveness of such less costly approaches needs to be carefully
-40 -



reviewed. With experience, it should also be possible to find ways in reducing the costs of the FFS model.
Numbers of Farmers Trained.
According to GOI reports, a total of 914,934 farmers were trained under this project. However, questions
have been raised about the accuracy of the numbers of farmers trained, as these were compiled by the PIU
from bottom-up reporting in which those providing information on the numbers of farmers participating in
the field schools had strong incentives to report that these were the planned number of 25 farmers per field
school, even when this was not the case. A study on quality of the IPM training was undertaken by the
FAO TA team in 1995 of 169 FFS in the eight most active provinces during the dry season of 1995. The
report of this study stated: "The results of this survey indicate that average attendance at FFS during the
1995 dry season was about 16 participants for active Field Schools. The modal number of participants
was 14. Among the provinces on Java average attendance did not differ much, while the average for Bali,
West Sumatra, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi taken together was a more encouraging 20 participants
per FFS, with the lowest among the off-Java provinces (North Sumatra) averaging 19 participants per
session." On the basis of these results the Mid-Term Review mission concluded that the number of farners
who had successfully completed a FFS was probably around 15 for each of 1993/94 and 1994/95. After
the Mid-Term Review expressed concern about this attrition, efforts were made to improve attendance,
with positive results. The ICR mission has examined reports of subsequent studies by FAO, the GOI and
the SEARCA report, and estimates that the average numbers of farmers per FFS who successfully
completed the course were: 15, 15, 16, 19, 21, 22, and 23 for fiscal years 1995/96 through 1999/00,
respectively. This is a very conservative estimate, as these were based on estimates of attendance figures
observed on spot visits to FFS in selected provinces. Therefore, they show the average numbers of farmers
attending any single session, not the numbers who attended enough sessions to be deemed as having
successfully completed the course.  This is an important difference. Converting these figures into an
estimate of the number of farmers who attended at least 9 sessions (as one definition of successful
completion) would probably reveal that this methodology underestimated the number of farmers trained.
Using GOI figures for the numbers of FFS conducted in each year, and the average numbers per FFS
described above, the numbers of farmers trained would be reduced, as shown in the following table. The
revised estimates are 76% of the numbers reported by the GOI, and 87% of the SAR target.
-41 -



Fiscal      1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97   1997/98   1998/99     1999/00  TOTAL
Year
No. FFS i1    2,037    4,782    7,123    12,155      5,740     5,022       765   37,624
Farmers          15        15       16        19       21        22         23
Per FFS 2/  _                          I         I     _I                                I
Numbers of Farmers Trained
SAR Target   57,932  127,775  194,750   318,175    97,806                        796,438
GOI          50,932   116,751   160,661   299,229   141,343   123,002   23,0164/  915,164
Reports
Revised      30,555   71,730  113,968  230,945   120,540   110,484       17,595  695,817
Estimate /s
1/ GOI Reports
2/ Average number of participants per FFS, estimated by ICR using information from various
reports (FAO, GOI, SEARCA)
3/ As modified at Mid Term Review
4/ FYI 999/00 figures is partial.
5/ Computed by multiplying numbers of FFS by average numbers of farmers per FFS
It has also been suggested that the revised estimates for the number of farners trained should be further
discounted to adjust for possible double counting. The SEARCA impact study found that about 10% of
farmers had attended more than one FFS. Of this percentage, 3% was for farmers who had attended both a
rice FFS and a FFS on another crop (soybeans and vegetables).
Reducing the number computed above by 10% to take into account the SEARCA Study observations
would reduce the revised estimate of farmers trained to 626,235. The ongoing World Bank study on FFS
may further clarify the estimated number of farmers trained on IPM.
Field notes from the SEARCA impact study also showed that the numbers of FFS per village in some
villages were greater than seems credible. The ICR has no way to deternine whether these were
exceptionally large villages or whether this represents yet another example of misreporting. However,
given conservative estimates of the number of graduates per FFS, as described above, a further discounting
has not been calculated to adjust for this factor.
The percentages of the farmers trained who were women has varied in different reports. The SEARCA
impact study reported that in their sample of 656 FFS in six provinces the average number of FFS who
were women was 18%, ranging from 3% in Bali (where, by local traditions, women do not work in rice
fields until harvesting) to 28% in West Sumatra (where women play a greater role in farming). The GOI
ICR reported an average of 22.3% as the "actual/latest" figure. In order to clarify this issue, the Bank ICR
has compiled data from reports of the five gender studies, four conducted under the FAO Technical
Assistance contract, and a fifth by a GOI gender specialist. These revealed that the percentage of FFS
participants who were women increased from 5.6 before the project was initiated to 10.6 (FY 94/95), 17.3
(FY 95/96), 18.9 (FY 96/97), 22.3 (FY 97/98), and 21.5 (FY 98/99).
The SEARCA Impact Evaluation Study
Various case studies showed that farmers trained under this project dramatically reduced their pesticide
use. These, and the performance indicators developed for M&E, however, indicated that the quality of the
-42 -



FFS were variable. As the previous accounts of success were largely anecdotal, and the M&E data were
limited, a larger, impact study based on random sample of a large number of farmers in the project
provinces was essential. This Impact Evaluation Study (IES) was carried with project funds on behalf of
the GOI by the Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA) in early
March-July, 1999. The method used was that developed by a World Bank funded pilot by the French
Center for International Cooperation in Agricultural Research and Development (CIRAD) in
August-November, 1998.
The SEARCA IES estimated that the project had generated a net present worth (NPW) equal to US$
6,908,173, and an Intrinsic Rate of Return (IRR) of 71.47%.
The cost-benefit analysis of the SEARCA study had intrinsic weaknesses:
*     The absence of baseline data before the FFS training. Although a 1991 baseline survey was
conducted, the data from this were not available to the study team because of computer problems.
*     Since the lack of baseline data did not permit a before and after analysis, the study team had to
compare performance and practices of farmers who have participated in field schools vs farmers
who had not. This introduced the strong possibility that some of the differences related more to the
criteria for selecting the participants than to the results of the training.
*     The study had to rely on secondary data on the total numbers of persons trained. These numbers
have been questioned, as they were compiled from bottom-up reporting in which those providing
information on the numbers of farmers participating in the field schools had strong incentives to
report that these were the planned 25 each, whereas that was probably often not the case.
X     It was a one-time snapshot of a single season, making any extrapolation over time hazardous.
*     The time available to the study teams to collect the data was very limited.
Factors which could have contributed to an overestimation of NPW and IRR include:
*     Inflated numbers of persons trained (see section on numbers trained, above).
*     FFS participants were probably already better farmers, so they would have a greater gross margin
without training.
*     The average farm size used was that for the farmers sampled. This is considerably higher than
national averages, resulting in an overestimation when these farm sizes are multiplied by total
numbers of farns.
*     Some costs (own labor, opportunity costs of farmers and training staff) were not included.
Factors which may have contributed to an underestimation of IRR include:
*     The values of externalities, particularly health and environmental benefits from reduced use of
pesticides ( see page 5 in main body of report) were not imputed.
*     The values of positive changes in institutional values and approaches in relational to pest control
cannot be readily calculated.
The SEARCA and CIRAD studies provided substantial data on the knowledge, and behavioral changes
among farmers which resulted from the field schools, which is a major contribution of the project. The
study confirmed that many farmers who participated in the IPM field schools now make pest management
decisions on the basis of knowledge of what is going on in their field rather than practicing calendar-based
spraying. They are more concerned about conservation of natural enemies; and they also used less
pesticides. The ICR mission's recalculations of SEARCA study data placed this at about 25% less, rather
than the 40% stated by the SEARCA study report, and the nearly 100% often claimed by FAO staff (the
data for smaller "paired" sets compiled by the ICR from the SEARCA data show a 36% reduction). The
-43 -



CIRAD study in East and West Java found that 20% of FFS alumni used no pesticides on rice during the
past season, and 72% sprayed less than three times, compared with 12% and 56% for non-alumni. The
SEARCA study also demonstrated that FFS alumni are less inclined to dispose of used pesticide containers
in the field, and more often bury them, implying an environmental benefit from the training over and above
that resulting from less pesticide use.
- 44 -



Annex 9. ICR Mission
The World Bank ICR mission reviewed the Integrated Pest Management Project in Indonesia during
November 29 - December 17, 1999. Members of the mission were: John Nickel (Consultant), Team
Leader, Kalim Qamar (Senior Officer for Training and, FAO Rome), Prijanto Santoso (USAID), Hania
Rahman (Consultant), Rizal Rival and Novira Asra (World Bank, Jakarta). They met with officials of the
Directorate General of Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH), the Directorate of Crop Protection
(DITLIN), the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), World Education, World Bank Office in Jakarta, staff of the Project Implementing
Unit (PfU), and members of the GOI ICR team. The mission visited project sites in Yogyakarta and met
with provincial and district officials, field leaders, and farmer groups.
The objective of the ICR mission was to review relevant documents (see Annex 7), including the draft
implementation completion report of the government (GOI ICR), and hold discussions with various
officials as a basis for preparation of the draft Bank ICR.
Given the time and resources available it was not possible for the mission to collect its own information
regarding the performance and impact of the project. Instead it compiled and analyzed secondary data from
the voluminous documentation. This information was confirmed and refined through discussions with the
officials, as described above.
Even if time and resources had permitted more extensive field visits, it would have been difficult for the
coverage to be adequate, given the large geographic area and the large numbers of farmers and staff
involved. Even then, primary information gathered would have been largely anecdotal, and influenced by
the natural tendency of projects to arrange visits to more successful sites. The only way to assess project
performance and impact objectively would be through a survey of large numbers of persons randomly
selected in representative regions. Such a study had been carried out in March-July, 1999. This "
Integrated Pest Management Project Impact Evaluation Study" was carried out by the SEAMEO Regional
Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA), Los Bafios, Philippines, using
methodology developed in a pilot study conducted by the Center of Intemational Cooperation in
Agricultural Research (CIRAD), of France, in August-November, 1998. The reports of these two studies
represented a major source of information for the mission, especially with regards to the outcome of the
project.
The person who served as the local survey specialist on the CIRAD and SEARCA studies was also a
member (economist) of the Bank ICR team. This linkage provided valuable insights for interpretation of
the impact evaluation study findings.
-45 -



