Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11377-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 5, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
(As of September 1992)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00       =  Rp 2,020
Rp I million = $495.05
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
AAET         -  Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
AARD         -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AIC          -  Agricultural Information Centers
ARF          -  Action Research Facility
ARM          -  Agricultural Research Management Project
AWP          -  Annual Work Program
BAPEDAL    -  Environmental Impact Control Agency
BAPPEDA    -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS   -  National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS        -  Mass Guidance (Rice Intensification Program)
BPH          -  Brown Plant Hopper
BPKP         -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
DGFCA        -  Directorate General for Food Crops, Agriculture
DIKLAT-APP -  Academy of Agricultural Extension
DITLIN       -  Directorate of Crop Protection
EPA          -  Environmental Protection Agency
FAO          -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FFS          -  Farmers Field Schools (same as SLPHT)
FL           -  Field Leader (same as PL)
FTF          -  Field Training Facilities
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
INSUS        -  Special Rice Intensification Program
IPM          -  Integrated Pest Management
IRRI         -  International Rice Research Institute
LCB          -  Local Competitive Bidding
M&E          -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          -  Management Information System
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          -  Ministry of Finance
NFCEP        -  National Food Crops Extension Project
PHP          -  Pest Observer
PIMPRO       -  Pimpinan Proyek (Project Leader)
PPC          -  Plant Protection Commission
PPL          -  Field Extension Worker
PPM          -  Field Extension Supervisor
PPO          -  Provincial Program Officer
PPS          -  Extension Subject Matter Specialist
REC          -  Rural Extension Centers (same as BPP)
SOEs         -  Statements of Expenditure
SPPO         -  Subprovince Program Officer
T&V          -  Training and Visit
USAID        -  United States Agency for International Development
WID          -  Women in Development
WHO          -  World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINIG PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJEcT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                US$32.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard variable interest rate for a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace.
Project Description:   The project would inter alia support:
(aj Human Resource Development, to promote a bottom-up concept
of extension service and farmer-participatory approach for
implementing the IPM program. About 520 pest observers,
1,100 extension workers and 800,000 farmers would be trained,
with about 30 percent of trainees being women;
(b) Supporting Studies and Field Investigations (i) to develop
appropriate farmer-responsive technology, including a program
of investigation into pest/natural enemy interactions in different
eco-systems,  (ii) an  Occupational  Health  Study,  and
(iii) contracted out research to local universities; and
(c) strengthening the regulatory and environmental management of
pesticides.
This would include a review and strengthening of the effectiveness
of the Pesticides Commission, review and phase-out of the most
hazardous pesticides, collation/dissemination of information and
improvements in labelling, packaging, storage, as well as
undertaking the environmental audits of manufacturing/formulation
plants.
Benefits:              The main benefits of the project at the farm level include cash
savings from reduction in pesticide use, lower production risk,
higher yields, and health benefits for farmers and farm laborers. At
the national level, the large-scale implementation of the EPM
program will decrease the risk of major pest outbreaks, result in
savings of foreign exchange on pesticide imports, contribute to
conservation of biodiversity in the rice eco-system, and decrease
environmental damage resulting from production, transport, storage
and use of pesticides.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omffcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                 The proposed project would replicate and scale-up a successful pilot
program that has trained 140,000 farmers, to train about 800,000
farmers. This scaling up of the program could constitute a risk if
the management capacity is strained. Another risk stems from the
aggressive marketing tactics of the pesticide companies which can
be expected to continue to exert srong pressure on Government to
modify policies supportive of IPM. These risks will be minimized
by continuing to use a team of technical advisors well-versed in the
program, and by setting irreversible processes in place via farmer
training and education.
Estimated Costs: La                        Loca         Foreign        Total
(-iSS million)
Project Components:
A. Human Resource Development
* Training of Pest Observers,
Ext. Workers and Farmers hB         30.8            1.4          32.2
* Management Information Systems        1.1            -             1.1
Subtotal                          3l2              IA
B.  Supporting Studies and Field
Investigatlons
* Occupational Health and Habitat Studies   0.8       0.1            0.9
* Field Laboratories                    0.5            -             0.5
* Contracted-out Research and
Mapping Data bases                   0.3             -            0.3
Subtotal                           IA             Q1            L1
C.  PoUcy Support                            0.6            -             0.6
D.  Technical AssistanceL                    6.0           3.6            9.6
Bse Costs                               DA1              Li
Physical Contingencies                  0.9           0.4            1.3
Price Contingencies                     6.1           0.4            6.5
Total Project Costs                     CA              L2           S3
la  Inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of $3.3 million equivalent and reserve
procurement (of vehicles) of $0.2 million.
Lb  Includes in-service training for extension worker ad agro-eco systems training.
Li    his is primarily for institutional capacity/human resource development, and partly for
supporting studies and policy support (see Annex S for details).



Finandng Plan:                         Loal        Foregn         Total
(USS million)
Government                        14.0           -           14.0
USAID                              6.5           0.5          7.0
IBDRD
Total Flnanng                    47.1          5.9          53.0
Estimated Disbununents
Bank FY          FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97        FY98
(USS million)
Annual           5.0         7.5        7.5        6.0         6.0
Cumulative       5.0        12.5       20.0       26.0        32.0
Econondc Rate of Return: 32 percent
Map: IBRD No. 24306






- iv -
CONTENTS
Page No.
1 SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND . .                                                
A. Introductionu.
B. The Agriculture Sectort.
* Background  ......................................                                1
* Performance ......................................                                2
* Objectives and Future Strategies  .........................                       2
C. Integrated Pest Management .............................                             3
* Evolution and Experience ..............................                           3
* Program Implementation to Date  .........................                         4
D. Institutional Framework  ................................                            5
* Ministry of Agriculture ...............................                           5
* Directorate of Crop Protection (DITLIN) ....................                      6
* Pesticides Commission and Secretariat ......................                      6
* BIMAS .........................................    7
E. Government Investment Programs and Strategies  ................                      8
- Research and Extension ...............................                            8
2   BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  ..... ..                             .......     10
A. Bank Involvement in Research and Extension ...................                      10
B. Issues and Lessons Learned ..............................                           11
C. Proposed Strategy and Rationale for Future Bank Involvement ...           .....     12
3   THE PROJECT             ...................            ....................            14
A. The Project Concept and Objectives  ........................                        14
B. Brief Project Description  ...............................                          14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in September/October
1992. The mission consisted of Ms. S. Ganguly (task manager), Messrs. A. Sidhu (Bank staff),
R. Crooks and A. Balasubramaniam (consultants). Assistance by the FAO and FAO/CP teams
as well as by  Mrs. C. Brown  (Bank staff) is acknowledged.   Peer reviewers were:
Messrs. W. Zijp (extension/training aspects), Y. Choi (research/extension strategies) and
Ms. A. Kiss (pesticide policies and environmental aspects). Ms. M. Haug, Director, EA3 and
Mr. Antony P. Cole, Chief, EA3AG have endorsed the project.



v 
Page No.
C.  Detaled Project Description   .............................                                                  15
* Institutional Strengthening   .............................                                               15
- Human Resource Development                            ..........................                       15
- Supporting Studies and Field-based Investigations                            ..............            17
* Policy Aspects   ...........                        .........................                             19
- Strengthening Regulatory and Environmental Management of Pesticides                                     19
* Technical Assistance  ...........                         ......................                         20
4  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ........................                                                              21
*    Project Costs ............                        ...........................                               21
*  Financing .........................................    21
*    Implementation Schedule   ...............................                                                   21
*    Procurement  ............                         ...........................                               23
*    Disbursements  ......................................                                                       24
*    Accounts and Audit ...................................                                                      26
5 ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ......  28
*    National Level Organization and Management  ..................                                              28
*    Provincial and Field Level Organization and Management ....                                 .......         29
*    Planning and Financial Management Procedures  .................                                             30
6    PROJECT  IMPACT                     ..................                   ..................                      32
*    Benefits and Justification   ...............................                                                32
- Economic Benefits   ..................................                                                   32
- Health and Environment ...............................                                                   33
- Economic Analysis  ..................................                                                    34
- Role of Women  ....................................                                                      35
A.  Sustainability, Risks and Uncertainties  .......................                                             36
* Sustainability   .....................................                                                   36
* Risks and Uncertainties  ...............................                                                 36
7 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                                          .......   37
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1      Development Expenditures on Research   ......................                                                 8
1.2      Expenditures per Extension Workers  ........................                                                 9
2.1       Bank-supported Projects  ................................                                                   10
4.1       Project Cost Summary  .................................                                                    22
4.2       Project Financing Plan  .................................                                                  23
4.3       Procurement Plan  ....................................                                                     25
4.4       Disbursement Schedule   ................................                                                   26
6.1   Economic Rate of Return ........................... ...                                                        35



- vi -
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Action Plan for Strengthening Regulatory and Environmental Management of
Pesticides
Annex 2     Tables 1 and 2. Project Costs
Table 3. Financing Plan
Annex 3     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 4     Implementation Schedule, Project Performance Indicators (M&E) and Supervision
Requirements
Annex 5     Consultancy Services
Annex 6     Table 1. Economic Prices and Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Table 2. Cash Flow for Economic Analysis
Annex 7     Manufacture, Formulation, Distribution and Storage of Pesticides
Annex 8    Environmental Analysis
Annex 9     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
CHARTS    1. Central Orgaization (IPM Project)
2. Field Organization
3. Planning and Funding Procedures
MAP:        IBRD No. 24306






I
SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.  ntRODUCTON
1.1       To control the serious outbreak of Brown Plant Hopper (BPH) in 1986, which was
attributed to the over use of pesticides, the Government banned the application of 57 insecticides
on rice, phased out pesticides subsidies and recommended the adoption of IPM methods. In
1989, with USAID grant funding and FAO technical assistance, the Government began to
implement the IPM program, under the coordination and management of BAPPENAS. Since
May 1992, the program has been supported under an ongoing Bank loan (Ln. 2748-INS). This
is a human resource development program aimed at training pest observers, extension workers
and farmers in the theory and application of IPM. The training approach uses adult education
methods emphasizing participatory learning. Farmers are encouraged and assisted to understand
and monitor the ecological dynamics of their fields and make their own decisions regarding pest
control action in a bottom-up approach rather than focusing on centrally-developed messages.
The program has successfully introduced IPM methods in 12 intensive rice-growing areas,
through training of 1,100 pest observers and 140,000 farmers, leading to a decline in pesticide
usage without a decline in crop yield. The IPM approach has wider ramifications, since it is
aimed at addressing a two-fold challenge, (i) make research more flexible and sensitive to
farmers' needs; and (ii) make extension more participatory, localized and farmer-driven. It is
an innovative and a different approach to the extent it emphasizes farmer education rather than
instruction via centrally-relayed, standardized messages as in the case of the T&V system of
extension. It fosters an approach to extension which is differentiated and suited to the local
needs of the farm  ecology.  The improvement to farmers also contributes to greater
accountability of the Government support services. The Government now wishes to expand the
program, and to focus on wider-ranging institutional sustainability and policy/regulatory aspects.
This provides the basis and the underpinnings for the proposed project.
B. TnE AGRIcuLTURE SECrOR
Background
1.2       Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing
21 percent of GDP, providing employment to some 55 percent of the labor force, and generating
26 percent of non-oil exports. Of some 24.0 million ha under cultivation, about 16.0 million
ha is under annual crops, of which approximately 5.5 million ha are irrigated. With the
exception of estate crops, nearly all agricultural production is undertaken by 18 million
smallholders, a majority of whom farm less than 1 ha. Farm incomes are being supplemented
increasingly by earnings from off-farm employment, which can contribute 30 percent or more
of net farm incomes. In areas near the larger cities, where there are expanding opportunities,



- 2 -
especially for the employment of young males, women are playing an increasingly important role
in farming.
Performance
1.3        The agricultural sector grew at 3.8 percent per annum between 1969-89, compared
with a population growth of 2.1 percent. Farm food crops,1/ which account for 60 percent
of agricultural GDP, grew at 4.2 percent per annum during the same period. Rice, the single
largest component of the food crops subsector, grew at an even faster rate, 4.8 percent per
annum, particularly during the 1979-89 period. These growth rates are substantial considering
that, in the 1970s, not only was rice the principal agricultural import, but Indonesia was also the
world's largest importer of rice. The policy of achieving self-sufficiency in rice was not only
efficient, given Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor-intensive production, but was equally
a policy for alleviating poverty, because rice production was the main economic activity and
source of income of the rural poor. In areas where poor soils are constraints to rice and other
food crop production, tree crops contributed to employment and income generation for
smallholder families. Rural poverty, however, continues to exist in pockets in Java, and more
rampantly in some of the Eastern Islands.
1.4        The overall impressive performance of the sector is attributed to Indonesia's
appropriate response to the oil boom through a combination of macroeconomic management and
sectoral policies. These policies included public investments in irrigation, research and
extension, widespread promotion of high-yielding varieties, and subsidized input packages,
compensating for adverse terms of trade for tradeable goods, mainly agricultural. Administered
price programs in conjunction with the trade policy regime helped achieve food price stability.
1.5        A few shortfalls associated with these policy instruments, which the Government
is beginning to address, are: (a) high budgetary costs (Rp 700 billion for fertilizer subsidy in
1990/91) posing a fiscal burden; (b) inefficiencies in resource allocation, e.g., high subsidies
resulting in excessive use of fertilizer and underpricing of resources leading to speculative
demand for land and an inefficient use of water; and (c) a regulatory environment leading to
some rent seeking and cost inefficiency in marketing.
Objectives and Future Strategies
1.6        The Government's major objectives for the agricultural sector have included food
security, low and stable food prices, and the generation of employment and foreign exchange
earnings. These have been largely achieved. Over the next plan period (Repelita VI, 1994/95 -
1999/2000), it is expected that there will be a shift in policy away from production targets and
control of marketing towards farm income generation and deregulation. Farmers would be more
responsive to price signals. This will foster diversification towards products with high income
elasticities of demand and high land-use intensity.
1/  Comprising rice and palawija (secondary) crops such as corn, soybeans, cassava, groundnuts and
sweet potatoes.



- 3 -
1.7        A recent Bank sector report Z/ estimates that as the patterns of demand and
structure of production transform during economic growth, the growth of agricultural GDP is
likely to stabilize at around 3 percent per annum. Although the agriculture sector will continue
to contract as a proportion of total output as well as total employment, the latter will tend to lag.
More importantly, successful agricultural development is needed to generate rural prosperity
which, in turn, generates off-farm employment. The issue is one of devising approaches which
do not deplete the fragile resource base and which generate developmental linkages to local
economies.
1.8        The sector will thus require greater economic efficiency, a less interventionist role
for Government in setting cropping targets, pricing, marketing and trade, and instead an
increasing role for the Government in regulating and managing the environment. The IPM and
similar approaches to improve the efficiency of fertilizer, irrigation water, and other inputs use,
that can substantially reduce costs to both farmers and Government, as well as generate
environmental and health benefits, will become increasingly important. The proposed project
fits well into the future development strategies for the sector.
C. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
Evolution and Experience
1.9        Until the advent of the Green Revolution in the 1960s, the most serious insect pests
of rice in S.E. Asia were stemborers and leaf hoppers. By 1975, however, Brown Plant
Hoppers (BPH) had become by far the most threatening insect pest of rice causing widespread
damage to the crop. Researchers concluded that the genetic constitution of the high yielding
varieites (HYVs) and the cultural practices adopted favored the growth of BPH. Photoperiod
insensitive varieties enabled double cropping and an extended growing season. Changes in plant
architecture, increased fertilizer use, improved irrigation, all created conditions which favored
the rapid build-up of BPH. These factors coupled with the rapid breeding cycle of the BPH
provided the selection pressure for the rapid generation of new biotypes of BPH capable of
overcoming the genetic resistance which had been bred into successive releases of modern rice
varieties. Under these circumstances, the planting of new resistant varieties and prophylactic use
of insecticides became the widely accepted method of controlling BPH.
1.10       Results from a number of field studies, however, questioned the need for extensive
and frequent use of insecticides in rice. In the absence of insecticidal sprays, BPH populations
were found to be kept in check by natural predators in rice fields while indiscriminate and
frequent use of insecticides favored BPH resurgence by destroying the predators. Further, there
are strong indications that damage to modern varieties, with high tillering rates and
photosynthetic capacity, is compensated for and does not result in reduced yield. These results
support the contention that any change to the delicate balance of coexistence through the
introduction of new varieties or indiscriminate destruction of the natural predators of insect pests,
can lead to changes in the relative importance of a pest. This has led to the conceptual basis for
IPM which seeks to maintain the balance of coexistence by preserving genetic variability of the
crop, natural predator numbers and the growing of a healthy crop.
ZI Indonesia: Agricultural Transfornation: Challenges and Opportunities, September 1992, No.
10504-IND.



-4 -
1.11       In 1988, rice cultivation was the single largest user of pesticides in the world and
90 percent of the market for agro-chemicals was in Asia. Farm surveys indicate that farmers
perceive insecticides in particular, as an insurance rather than an investment and that use of
insecticides, unlike fertilizers, did not significantly increase yields or profits. Furthermore, the
extensive and often indiscriminate use of insecticides in rice raises serious environmental and
health-related concerns, not only related to their use, but also their manufacture and distribution.
1.12       IPM in Indonesia. The concepts of IPM have been known and practiced for some
time in Indonesia, albeit on a small scale. In 1983, IPM was introduced in about 70,000
hectares of rice in South Sulawesi to successfully control the virus disease, Tungro, which is
transmitted by leafhoppers. Management measures included planting of rice during months when
the vector population was low, rotation of rice cultivars with different degrees of resistance to
leafhoppers, and selective application of insecticides. In 1986, similar but more comprehensive
measures were taken to control major outbreaks of BPH in rice brought about by (a) the
emergence of new BPH biotypes against which there was no genetic resistance in the varieties
then being grown; and (b) calendar-based spraying of insecticides which had effectively
suppressed the pests' natural predators. These measures were instituted as an IPM program
based on a Presidential Decree (Decree No. 3, Nov. 1986) which formalized the adoption of
1PM as a national crop protection strategy, banned the use of 57 broad spectrum insecticides on
rice and withdrew subsidies for pesticides. IPM is based on the use, either singly or in
combination, of (i) cultural control, e.g., growing a healthy crop, (ii) host plant resistance, i.e.,
use of resistant varieties, (iii) biological control, e.g., preservation or encouragement of natural
pest enemies, and (iv) chemical control, i.e., occasional use of selected pesticides as a last resort
when pest numbers are excessive.
Program Implementation to Date
1.13       Based on the experience gained from a crash training program on IPM immediately
following the Presidential Decree, the Government initiated a National IPM program in 1989
with funding support for three years from USAID and technical assistance through FAO. The
program has been supported for an additional year i.e., May 1992 - June 1993, under an existing
IBRD loan (Ln. 2748-IND). The program, coordinated and implemented by BAPPENAS, has
focused on training pest observers (PHPs) in the use of IPM, and through them farmers, in
major rice areas in 12 provinces. It has also supported specific IPM-related field investigations
and studies to strengthen the scientific basis of the pest control measures and the training
program. At the field level, the program has been implemented mainly by using existing PHPs
who are staff of the Directorate of Crop Protection (DITLIN) in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and Extension staff (PPLs), as well as existing government facilities and farmers fields.
By the end of June 1992, about 1,100 PHPs and about 140,000 farmers had been trained in IPM
methods using a "learning by doing" approach in order to develop a better understanding of the
biological and physical factors affecting plant growth and pest attack, which should enable
farmers to make more educated decisions on managing their rice fields. About 5,000 PPLs who
assist in the selection and training of farmers groups, have also received an orientation course
in IPM methods. Studies and investigations include a Habitat study of insects in rice-based
ecosystems, 27 problem-oriented investigations carried out under contract by Universities and
the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), and establishment of a field-
based action research facility to carry out investigations and rapidly develop practical
technologies for the control of the White Stem Borer. The program has also initiated an
occupationalhealth study in Central Javato obtainreliabledata onpesticideexposure and poisoning.



- 5 -
1.14       A 1991 survey of program-trained farmers indicates that on average, the number
of insecticide applications per rice crop have been halved resulting in an estimated average
savings of some Rp 20,000/ha. This is a significant contribution to the overall decline in
pesticide use brought about by the elimination of subsidies for pesticides and the banning of
specified insecticides for rice. There have been no major outbreaks of BPH since 1989. Results
also indicate some increases in rice yields due to better crop husbandry as a result of the training
program. The overall success of the program to date can be attributed to a sound scientific/
ecological basis, strong leadership, an effective training system, a supportive policy enviromnent,
and strong Government commitment.
D. INsTnTUrTONAL FRAMEWORK
Ministry of Agriculture
1.15       The Ministry of Agriculture consists of four commodity-oriented Directorates
General responsible for food crops, estate crops, livestock, and fisheries, and two functionally-
oriented agencies, AARD and the Agency for Agricultural Education and Training (AAET).
1.16       Research. Within the MOA, the AARD has the national mandate for agricultural
research. It is responsible for 27 research institutes covering food crops, estate crops, soils,
livestock, fisheries, socioeconomics and statistics. AARD-sponsored research on IPM has
focused on the development of resistant crop varieties and assessing the effects of varietal
rotation, simultaneous planting and harvesting techniques.
1.17       Extension and Training. The national extension service is a relatively young
organization, that has nevertheless undergone a considerable number of institutional and
methodological changes in its short life, and which remains structurally and functionally
complex. Following a period in which extension was under the unified leadership of the former
Agency for Agricultural Education, Training, and Extension (AAETE), each of the four
Directorates General (Food Crops, Estate Crops, Fisheries, and Livestock) within the MOA now
have Directorates of Extension responsible for providing technical support to the field staff, and
for formulating extension programs to fit the needs of specific commodity production programs.
The extension method used is essentially the Training and Visit (T&V) system.
1.18       Agricultural education and training are the responsibilities of the AAET.  It
supervises three types of institutions: (a) agricultural (vocational) high schools, producing
technical level graduates; (b) ten regional in-service training centers to upgrade the skills of
agricultural staff; and (c) agricultural information centers (AIC) that produce extension materials
(publications, films, radio broadcasts), and support extension work through organizing farmer
competitions, field days and conferences. In addition, AAET runs a national training center at
Ciawi, near Bogor, which provides in-service training courses for agricultural teachers and
instructors from the regional schools and centers, and for senior personnel of the provincial and
central agricultural agencies.
1.19       The MOA also administers the BIMAS or Mass Guidance program (see para. 1.23).
Until 1983 the Director General of Food Crops, Agriculture (DGFCA) was concurrently BIMAS
Secretary, and BIMAS officers in the provinces and districts were part of provincial and district
food crop offices. In 1983, the role of BIMAS was expanded and it became organizationally
separate from the DGFCA with a full-time national Secretary and separate provincial and district



- 6 -
secretariats. In 1986 all MOA extension staff were put under the administrative charge of
BIMAS.
1.20      Each Directorate General of the MOA as well as BIMAS have operational units at
the provincial level. In addition to the intra-ministerial lines of command, each head of unit also
reports to the Governor of a Province or his representative.
1.21       Important changes are currently taking place in the organization of the agricultural
services. In late 1991, the responsibility for the oversight of extension was re-assigned to the
four Directorates General and a process of decentralization was initiated which is intended to
lead to most MOA field staff being placed under the administrative authority of local government
entities, responsible to the provincial Governor. Plans are also being drawn up which would
result in a fundamental reorganization of the Ministry along functional rather than commodity
lines.
Directorate of Crop Protection (DITLIN)
1.22       This is an operational agency within the DGFCA that has responsibility for
monitoring pest and disease outbreaks, and for advising farmers on pest control measures. The
service has an establishment of almost 3,000 Pest Observers (PHPs) based throughout the
country whose task is to monitor and forecast pest and disease incidence weekly during the rice
growing season, and to report back to a central monitoring laboratory. When predetermined
economic threshold levels of pest incidence are reached, the central laboratory advises PHPs on
control measures (generally spraying with insecticide and fungicides). The PHPs are then
expected to advise farmers through Village Pest Control Squads on these measures. The service
has a central laboratory, and 35 well equipped regional pest observation laboratories, built with
Japanese assistance.
1.23      The main weaknesses of the service, which have been exacerbated by recent
shortages of operating funds are: (a) that it is slow-the response time between reported
outbreaks and recommended control procedures is often long, resulting in some damage; (b) that
it is 'top down", with the PHPs functioning mainly as messengers rather than as extension agents
who can relate to farmers and interpret their needs; and (c) that its control recommendations
depend largely on the use of pesticides. Since the start of the National IPM Program, over
1,000 PHPs have been seconded to it for training in IPM methods. The training has contributed
to improvements in their relationships with farmers, whose confidence in their advice has
increased. However, upon completion of training, PHPs are formally expected to return to their
normal surveillance duties, with no responsibility for continuing farmer training activities
(para. 3.8).
Pestiddes Commission and Secretariat
1.24       This is an interdepartmental Unit whose Secretariat is attached to the Directorate
of Crop Protection (DITLIN). Members of the Commission are from the Ministries of
Agriculture, Cooperatives, Health, Labor, Industry, Trade, and the State Ministry for Population
and Environment, and Environmental Impact Control Agency (BAPEDAL). The Commission
meets twice a year to consider registration of pesticides. Four subcommittees deal respectively
with efficacy, health and environmental safety, monitoring of health and environmental impacts,
and enforcement of regulations. The Chairman of the Commission is the head of DITLIN, who



- 7 -
reports directly to the Minister for Agriculture although he is administratively under the
Director-General of Food Crops. The secretary is the Head of the Pesticides Secretariat which
is a Unit within the Directorate of Plant Protection. The Commission is supported by the
Secretariat comprising the DITLIN staff, and it uses DITLIN facilities for laboratory analysis.
The analysis for physical and chemical properties is also carried out in the Atomic Agency, the
Ministry of Health, and the Estate Crops Directorate of MOA. At present, the Secretariat in
headquarters has 13 staff members comprising two staff each in Legal and Foreign Cooperation,
Safety Evaluation, Efficacy Evaluation, Physical and Chemical Properties, and Administration;
three staff members are responsible for Supervision and Enforcement. In addition, under the
Pesticides Commission, there is also a Pesticides Supervising Committee at the provincial level,
and a similar one at the district level.
1.25       The Pesticides Commission is presently formulating policies on the control of
pesticides which are expected to be implemented in 1993. The policies deal with the following:
re-evaluation of all registered pesticides with greater emphasis on safety to humans, the
environment, and efficacy; deregistration, where possible, of Class Ia and Ib pesticides;
generation of toxicological data; studies on resistance for certain pests of paddy; review of
membership of the Commission; reduction in the number of registered pesticides; assessment of
the implementation of "Prior Informed Consent" procedures.
1.26       There is a gross lack of data and basic information, essential for making sound
judgments on the performance of the various pesticides under actual handling and use conditions
in the country. Reliance is, instead, on limited information from reports on accidents and other
deleterious effects of pesticides on humans and the environment. There is also a lack of
expertise, personnel and support services to carry out the above tasks. It is, therefore, essential
to conduct an urgent review and augment many of the institutional capabilities. Proposals on
how this will be supported by the project are provided in Annex 1. Annex 7 provides details
on the pesticides manufacturing and formulation plants as well as on distribution and storage
aspects.
1.27       Plant Protection Commission (PPC). The PPC is an advisory body consisting of
seven experts in the field of entomology, phytopathology, and weed science. It has been active
since 1972, and was involved in the development of the policies leading to INPRES 3/86. Three
members of the PPC are also members of the National IPM Program Steering Committee. It
continues to be active in promoting IPM policies within the MOA.
BIMAS
1.28       The BIMAS program for intensive rice production was launched in the late 1960s.
The program included use HYVs, application of fertilizers and pesticides, and improved
agronomic practices. The use of inputs was encouraged through subsidies and provision of
credit for their purchase. BIMAS has passed through several adjustments and now consists of
a series of programs under the Special Rice Intensification (INSUS) umbrella. The INSUS
program contains 10 basic elements, i.e., use of selected varieties, certified seed, recommended
sowing dates, fertilizer rates, water management, weed, pest control and harvest technologies,
and a credit option. The pest control element for rice has recently been revised to make the use
of pesticides by farmers optional in line with the Government decision to adopt IPM as a national
policy. The package of technology and establishment of an institutional network for input and
extension delivery down to the village level has contributed to the country becoming self-



- 8 -
sufficient in rice. The GOI, having demonstrated the benefits of input use, has decided to reduce
public expenditures by reducing input subsidies, and by privatizing input supply and distribution.
The subsidies on insecticides were removed in 1989 and those on fertilizers are being reduced.
E. GovERNmENT INvESTmENT PROGRAMS AND STRAThGIES
Research and Extension
1.29       The proportion of total public expenditures on agriculture, devoted to research has
averaged about 3.5 percent. However, real expenditures on research have fallen by one-quarter
since 1986/87 when the proportion was nearly 5 percent (Table 1.1).  Expenditures on
agricultural research are equivalent to only about 0.2 percent of agricultural GDP in Indonesia.
This is below the average for South Asia (0.5 percent), Africa (1.0 percent), and North America
and Oceania (2.0 percent). Because of the low level of financing for research in Indonesia,
funds used for actual research (as opposed to salaries, infrastructure, etc.) have been grossly
inadequate. The number of qualified research personnel has increased from 220 to over 1,400
in the past 10 years but the declining operational budget has meant that many of these
researchers are unable to carry out their full program. In the 1991/92 budget, for example, only
about 23 percent of expenditures will be used for actual operational research. Inadequate funds
for travel and time spent in the field (along with poor career incentives for staff) have also
contributed to poor linkages between research and extension. Expenditures on travel fell by
about two-thirds in real terms from 1982/83 to 1988/89. Maintenance funds have also been
inadequate to prevent serious deterioration of the considerable infrastructure constructed over the
past decade. Real expenditures on maintenance fell by over one-half from 1982/83 to 1988/89.
Table 1.1: DEvELOPMENT EXPENDITURES ON RESEARCH
(Rp billion, 1990/91 terms)
1982/83   1986/87   1987/88   1989/90   1990/91
Research Expenditures             104        112        88        71        78
--as % of Ag. GDP L                 (0.31)    (0.33)    (0.26)    (0.17)    (0.19)
--as % of Ag. Devt. Exp.            (3.4)     (4.9)     (3.0)     (2.7)     (3.1)
/a Calculated in current terms.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, and Bank Staff estimates.
1.30       Expenditures on extension were hard hit by the budget cuts of the mid-1980s. It
is difficult to estimate total expenditures on extension, since extension duties are spread
throughout each directorate in the Ministry of Agriculture. Nevertheless, data on allowances
given to subject matter specialists (PPS) and PPLs are revealing (Table 1.2). Total allowances
(in real terms) per PPS have fallen every year since 1985/86, with the exception of 1990/91.
The budget for total allowances per PPS for 1991/92 is 48 percent below expenditures in
1985/86, and for travel the budget is nearly 35 percent below expenditures in 1985/86. For



- 9 -
PPLs, similar trends are apparent. The implications of these data are confirmed by anecdotal
evidence from farmers, who report infrequent and unpredictable field visits by extension
workers.
Table 1.2: EXPENDITURES PER EXTENSION WORKER
(Rp '000, constant 1990/91 terms)
(Budget)      Total Decline
1985/86    1988/89    1990/91    1991/92    (1985/86-1991/92)
PPS La
Total             1,754        932       957        920                48%
Travel            1,091        770       768        716                34%
PPL /b
Total               790        253       357        417                47%
Travel              322        177       200        240                25%
La Subject Matter Specialists.
Lb Field Extension Workers.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Bank Staff estimates. The estimates are for permanent
workers only and are unweighted averages across regions.
1.31      The challenges that lie ahead suggest that the pattern of Government expenditures
needs to be altered with less spending on fertilizer subsidies and new irrigation developments,
and more on research, extension, O&M, and infrastructure. With regard to research and
extension, a clear indication of future priorities, and decentralized, regional approaches will be
important. There is also scope for enhancing the role of the private sector in the provision of
support services and inputs, including research, extension, seeds, pesticides, fertilizer and
agricultural machinery.
1.32      The proposed project will meet some of these challenges by supporting:
(a) localized participatory approach to extension by educating farmers rather than instructing
them; (b) field investigations and studies by universities and private researchers aimed at
enhancing private sector involvement in research, and implementing flexible research programs,
directed at solving farmer problems.






- 10 -
2
BANK INVOLVEM[EJT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. BANK IVOLVUCNrT IN RESEARCH AND EXzION
2.1       Agricultural Support Services have absorbed a substantial part of Bank lending to
agriculture over the past twenty years. The relevant projects are summarized in the table below:
Table 2.1: BANK-SUPPORT   PROEC
Original
Loan/Credit
Credit/Loan No.     Dates           Project                          Amount
(USS M)
Research
Ln. 1179          1975-1980    Agricultural Research & Extension I   21.5
Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014   1980-1990    National Agricultural Research II   65.0
Ln. 3031          1989-1995    Agricultural Research Management      35.3
Ext3 ion
Ln. 1267          1976-1982    National Food Crops Extension         22.0
Cr. 996           1980-1988    National Extension II                 42.0
Ln. 2748          1987-1992    National Agricultural Extension m     70.0
2.2        The first research project contributed substantilly to the development of the AARD,
and provided for the strengthening of production-oriented research programs for rice, secondary
food crops, highland vegetables, and rubber through the provision of buildings and equipment,
training and technical assistance. The second project provided for similar support, but increased
the range of commodities covered to include lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry,
industrial and estate crops.
2.3       The Bank's involvement with extension began in the late 1960s when a version of
the T&V system was incorporated as a component of a number of irrigation projects.
Subsequendy, an effort was made to improve the training of extension workers by providing
assistance to agricultural high schools and regional training centers under an education project
(Cr. 288), approved in 1972. This was followed by the Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (Ln. 1179) in 1975, that established 11 provincial AICs and a national center at Ciawi;
and the National Food Crops Extension Project (NFCEP) (Ln. 1267) in 1976, that concentrated



- I1 -
on developing the extension activities of the Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture
(DGFCA) in 13 provinces. The key elements of NFCEP were the national introduction of the
T&V system, based on Rural Extension Centers (RECs), each staffed with two field extension
supervisors (PPMs) and which acted as a training and resource base for 10-12 PPLs with
associated PPSs. The second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II), which became
operational in 1980, extended the activities of NFCEP to a further 13 provinces, established an
integrated service for the transmigration areas, and expanded the areas of activity covered to
include smallholder estate crops, livestock, and inland fisheries. Despite its more holistic nature,
the project was managed, in its early years, at the national level by DGFCA pending the
unification of all extension services under the then former AAETE. The objective of the
subsequent third National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP III) was to continue the
strengthening of extension for food and estate crops, livestock and inland fisheries in all
provinces, based on an integrated T&V system. NAEP Im was implemented at the national level
by AAET.
B. ISSUES AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.4        The first two research projects successfully contributed to AARD's physical
expansion and strengthened research capabilities. However, a number of constraints emerged
during project execution. The more important of these include:
(a)  deficiencies in systematic planning of research priorities, and in managing research
at all levels within AARD;
(b)  inadequate provision of operational funds;
(c)  imbalances in the location and distribution of, especially, senior research personnel
in relation to perceived research needs;
(d)  lack of sufficiently trained staff in specialized areas, including marketing and
socioeconomics;
(e) lack of donor coordination in supporting various aspects of the national research
program;
(f)  inadequate balance between commodity-oriented research programs and location-
specific farming systems research;
(g)  poor research-extension linkages; and
(h)  inadequate communication with users of research.
2.5        The ongoing Agricultural Research Management (ARM) project aims to address
these constraints by improving the management of research through better planning, and
improved operational procedures. The proposed project would make two major contributions
in the area of research, (i) encourage private sector Oocal universities) participation and (ii) make
research more responsive to the needs of the farmers via field laboratories.



- 12 -
2.6        The conclusions and lessons learned from the Bank's involvement in extension are
similar. Infrastructure has been established, staff have been recruited and trained, and a system
has been adopted. A failure to adequately monitor and evaluate the service, particularly in terms
of output levels before and after the project preclude any formal economic analyses of benefits.
The major lessons learned from the extension projects include:
(a)  recognition that the extension service in Indonesia is a large complex organization
that requires time to fully develop;
(b)  that the move towards a unified service is more problematic than originally
anticipated;
(c)   minimum levels of operational funding are essential;
(d)  the system, as presently operated, does not facilitate good research extension
linkages; and
(e)  that the present system, designed to relay centrally developed messages to a mass
of farmers, needs to be modified to make it more farmer-friendly and flexible.
2.7        A recent evaluation of NAEP III concludes that overall the project and its
predecessors have contributed to the development of a system of training and extension that has
been a vital part of a successful agricultural endeavor leading to self-sufficiency in rice. In
particular the promotion, by the extension service, of standardized production packages (e.g.,
BIMAS and INSUS), undoubtedly contributed to the raising of rice output nationally, and
especially on Java. Furthermore, such a standardized approach was correct given the generally
low levels of production when the T&V system was introduced. But now with the increases in
paddy production to higher levels, and greater farmer literacy, time is ripe for an approach to
extension which is differentiated by the local/farm level needs. Farmer education, as under the
proposed project, will also empower the farmers to ensure that the Government support services
are accountable and responsible.
C. PRoPSED STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR FuTURE BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.8        The Bank would support the Government strategy of utilizing the research,
extension and training capacity built up under previous projects to consolidate and expand IPM.
The emphasis would be on participatory learning which would enable the farmers to make their
own decisions, rather than depend on centrally-developed messages. The "bottom-up' approach
to training would also strengthen the research-extension linkages. This would be achieved
through field investigations carried out in cooperation with farmers and which are flexible and
responsive to solving farmer problems. Greater private sector participation would be encouraged
through contracting out research to universities, researchers, etc.
2.9        The Bank's support to IPM would help ensure the longer-term sustainability of the
program, by consolidating the program in rice areas and gradually extending the program beyond
the rice ecosystem 1/ to other ecologies, and for other crops as well as to other aspects of crop
1/  This includes paddy, palawija (secondary) food crops, particularly com and soybeans grown in
rotation with rice, as well as vegetables.



- 13 -
protection and farm manaement. The presonce of the Bank, and the enal accountability that
this implies, may dlso help the Government reist any strong pressure  from pesticide
manufacturers to reverse its pest control policies. A five-year action program for improving
regulatory and environmental management of pesticides, would be supported under the project.
The project would, in line with the Bank's strategies, contribute to crop yield and production
stability, support human resource development, and generate important environmental and health
benefits (paras. 6.2-6.8).



- 14 -
3
THE PROJECT
A. T1 PBojECr CONCEpr AMN OBEmCnV
3.1       Project Concept. The proposed project would underpin the Government's 1986
policy for pest control which banned the use of 57 insecticides on rice, phased out pesticidef
subsidies and called for training of extension workers and farmers in IPM methods. It would
constitute a 5-year phse of a longer-term program aimed at training PHPs, PPLs and farmers
in the major rice bowls of Indoneia. While the primary emphasis would continue to be for the
paddy farmers to practice IPM, on a small-scale basis, it would be extended to palawija crops
and vegetables as well. Ihe proposed project would cover major rice area in 12 provinces of
W. Java, C. Java, E. Java, Yogyakarta, N. Sumatra, W. Sumatra, S. Sumatra, Aceb, Lampung,
Bali, S. Sulawesi, and W. Nusa Tenggara.
3.2        Project Objectives. The major objective is to stabilize agricultural production,
particularly paddy, and promote environmnally sound crop production systems (i.e., a safe and
efficient approach to environmental management, pollution mitigation and control) by:
(a) focusing on institutional streanening (educating farmers rather than instructing them,
whereby they have a service, differentiated and aptly geared to the local/farm level needs, as
well as support field invesations and studies primarily by the private sector, and which are
responsive to farmer needs. It is expected that at least 800,000 farmers would be trained in the
theory and application of IPM; and (b) providing for policy support to strengthen the regulatory
and environmentl management framework for pesticides, aimed at reducing risks associated with
the manufacture, distribution and application of pesticides.
B. Bo Poj=cr DESCRIPMON
3.3       In the context of Insttuonal &rengthenlng, the project would support:
(a)  TraIing. To consolidae and expand the IPM program, the following training
activities will be supported: (i) training of at least 520 PHPs and 1,100 PPLs at
the Field Training Facilities (FIFs).  (i) training of PPLs attending the
AAET/MOA in-service training program. A fourth year of traning at the Diklat
APPs (Academy of Agricultural Extension) would be modeled very closely on the
first three stages (rice, extension, palawija) of the PHP 1PM training given at the
FTFs. (iii) training of about 630,000 farmers, by the PHPs and PPLs. Each
PHPIPPL will undertake three Farmer Field Schools (FFS) each year, with each
FFS consisting of 25 farmers. (iv) training of about 25,000 of such farmers as
integrated pest maaement frmer instructors, who in turn would disseminate 1PM



- 15 -
practices to some 250,000 farmers. The project over a five-year period would aim
at training at least 800,000 farmers. Detailed training targets are included in
Attachment 1, Annex 4. It is also expected that by the end of the project period,
women's enrollment would approach about 30 percent of all trainees. (v) training
in agro-eco systems analyses for IPM. A short (2-days) map skills course would
be organized and taught by the mapping team. There will be a total of 14 map
skills courses (two days each) for the 83 kabupatens in Java. (vi) the Management
Information Systems (MIS) to be supported under the project. The MIS would help
strengthen the planning and management capability, particularly at the district and
subprovincial levels, by improving the flow, use and consolidation of information.
Within this system, the flow of information (para. 3.4) required to analyze data and
prepare reports of relevance to pesticide usage and impacts, would also be ensured
(see Annex 1, Action Plan).
(b)  Supporting Studies and Fleld Investigations. The project would support: (i) the
continuation of the Occupational Health Study for two years, as well as the
continuation of the Habitat Studies. The latter will be designed to provide a better
understanding of pest/natural enemy populations and interactions, and the influence
of insecticides on different agro-ecological systems. The proposed project would
also help establish and maintain up to six field laboratories (Action Research
Facilities) each for three years (similar to the one established in the Karawang
district). (ii) award of approximately 25 contracts (average value of Rp 20 million)
annually to researchers at the national research institutes and universities to
investigate specified IPM-related topics. The quality and effectiveness of such
research will be monitored and evaluated under the project. (iii) completion of the
mapping of rice areas of Java. This will require 12 more sheets of agro-ecosystem
maps at the scale of 1:100,000, and will be completed in about 14 months.
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluaton (M&E) of project activities. The timing of the
M&E activities would be linked to the key stages of the project, such as initial
establishment of the MIS system, the mid-term review, and the final project year
review.
3.4         With regard to Policy Support, the project would support the action plan (Annex
1) for strengthening the regulatory and environmental management framework for pesticides.
This is primarily aimed at supporting IPM policies. The Action Plan includes: (a) review of
the role and functions, and a strengthening of the effectiveness of Pesticides Commission;
(b) review of the problematic pesticides before the expiry of their registration, and a phase-out
of the import, manufacture and use of hazardous pesticides; (c) collation and dissemination of
information for pesticide management, including improvements in labelling regulations, nature
of packaging, nature and scale of unwanted pesticides, and sale and storage of pesticides; and
(d) undertaking environmental audits of pesticides manufacturing and formulation plants, to
ensure compliance with relevant environmental and occupational health and safety laws and
regulations.



- 16 -
C. DErAIIED PROJEcr DESCRIPON
Institutional Strengthening
- Human Resource Development
3.5        Training of PHP. The project would support the training of 520 PHPs who
would undertake a 15-month course at FTFs which are temporary facilities that would utilize the
existing Government infrastructure. Each FTF would accommodate 40-50 trainees per course
and the trainers would include experienced PHPs who have earlier undergone similar training,
lecturers from Universities, and staff from the Technical Assistance team. The training course
would familiarize the PHPs with the principles and practice of IPM and the experience-based
learning methods designed for its dissemination to farmers. The course would consist of
practical learning by growing and monitoring two crops of rice and one non-rice food crop
(palawija crop). This would be supplemented by instruction in the basic principles of
experiential learning, non-formal adult education methods, group dynamics, ecology, and
agronomy. The training during the second crop of rice would be undertaken as part of the
activities at an FFS when the trainee PHPs would train farmers in IPM under the supervision
of their trainers. The final four months of training course would be on crop production at a
cooperating University leading to a DI Diploma. Trained PHPs and PPLs would also attend
two-day refresher workshops each year. The project would support the training of PHPs at six
existing FTFs, and one new FTF would be established on the island of Sumatra. Provision
would be made for establishment of the new FTF, and operating costs, allowances, travel,
materials, and rental of rice fields for all the FTFs.
3.6       Training of PPI. About 1,100 PPLs assisting PHPs with the FFS would receive
one week of training at a FTF which would include an orientation to IPM, participatory training
methods and basic technical skills in IPM. On returning to their duty area from the training
course, each PPL would assist in the selection, organization and training of farmers groups at
FFS. PPLs attending the MOA in-service training at three APPs (Bogor, Malang, Yogyakarta)
or such other APPs as the Bank may agree, would receive 12 months of training in IPM after
the conclusion of their regular three year in-service training course. The IPM training would
be phased in at the three APPs and each APP would train about 70 PPLs per year. The course
would cover two rice crop seasons and a palawija crop season and would be conducted by
trained PHPs from the national IPM program. The implementation experience at the three APPs
would be reviewed during the project mid-term evaluation and the findings would form the basis
for possible increase in number of APPs to be supported for IPM training courses. During the
first project year, the Curriculum Development Specialist (para. 3.21) would also assist AAET
in the review and design of the 3-year in-service training program. The project would provide
for expenditures related to operating costs, allowances, travel, and materials for the IPM training
courses.
3.7        Training of Farmers. The project would support training of farmers and farmer-
instructors. Farmers would be trained at FFSs. All PHPs already trained in IPM, and those that
would be trained under the project (total about 2,000), with assistance from PPLs, would
undertake three FFS each year. Each FFS would consist of 25 farmers selected from a Farmers
Group on the basis of declared interest and willingness to attend 12 lessons during one crop
season. About 630,000 farmers would be trained at the FFS. Each lesson would consist of
4 hours of experiential learning once a week for 12 weeks. The lessons would include



- 17 -
instruction in ecology, rat control, crop husbandry, crop physiology, and insect feeding habits
and population dynamics. The project would also train about 25,000 interested farmers, selected
from the 630,000 farmers to be trained, as IPM instructors. These instructors, working in teams
of three, would undertake about 10,000 FFSs leading to the training of some 250,000 farmers.
The project over a 5-year period would aim at training at least 800,000 farmers. About
30 percent of the trainees, including PHPs, PPLs and farmers, would be women (paras. 6.14-
6.16). Provision would be made for allowances, travel, equipment and materials associated with
the training.
3.8        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the senior PHPs (field leaders,
FLI at the province level and FL2 at the district level) would continue to be fully seconded to
the program during the life of the project [para. 7.1(a)]. Likewise, the job descriptions of PHPs
and PPLs, as amended, would remain unchanged so that they can carry out the IPM-related
farmer training activities during the regular course of their normal surveillance duties [para.
7.1(b)].
3.9        Training in Agro-ecosystemns Analysis.  About 280 staff from FTFs, Crop
Protection Field Laboratories, Diperta II, and BAPPEDA in Java will be trained in map reading
skills by the project's mapping team during 2-day training courses to be supported by the
project. About 20 trainees from about 6 kabupatens would participate in each course and 14
such courses would be conducted for the 83 kabupatens in Java.
3.10       In addition to the ManagementInformation Systems [para. 3.3(a)], the project would
support 1PM Promotion Activities. As part of the effort at wider dissemination of information
on IPM, support would be provided for publication and distribution of the EPM newsletter,
promotional films and videos, briefing kits and other publications. There would be close
cooperation with the Ministry of Information in the use of TV and radio for dissemination of
relevant information. The project would also support participation of selected Indonesian staff
in IPM-related conferences in Indonesia and overseas, and provide for a limited number of
fellowships for training in regional Universities.
- Supporting Studies and Feld Investigations
3.11       The project would continue to support activities leading to the development of new
and refined IPM practices that would result in a more effective implementation of IPM at the
field level for rice, palawija crops and vegetables. Specifically, the project would support the
Occupational Health Study, Habitat Studies, Action Research Laboratories, and Contract
research.
3.12       The Occupational Health Study would determine the incidence and seriousness of
poisoning resulting from the use of pesticides in the rice growing areas in Java. The study
initiated in March 1992, in Tegal, Central Java in collaboration with the Ministry of Health,
would be continued for another two years under the project in order to observe pesticide
application practices and to establish reliable monitoring systems for signs and symptoms of
illness and to verify trends. Provision has been made for study-related equipment, allowances,
and Technical Assistance (para. 3.21).
3.13       The Habitat Studies aim to provide a better understanding of pest/natural enemy
populations and interactions, and the effect of the use of insecticides in different agro-ecological



- 18-
systems. The studies were initiated in 1991 under the direction of an Ecologist and make use
of existing D1TLIN laboratories. Field surveys, experiments, and statistical models are being
developed to explore community structure and dynamics in rice/rice and rice/soybean cropping
systems to develop management and risk profiles for them. The project would provide continued
support for the studies and provision has been made for essential equipment, laboratory and
office supplies, allowances, and Technical Assistance (para. 3.21).
3.14       Action Research Facilities (ARFs) or field laboratories would be temporary facilities
established in areas where particular pest problems have arisen that are not being addressed by
research agencies and institutions and for which the rapid development of practical control
methods are needed. The emphasis at these facilities would be to provide a task-force oriented
field investigative program capability and it is envisaged that these facilities would be centered
at or close to a University and that they would mainly rely on staff on contract from final year
students and recent graduates. The ARFs would need to maintain flexibility over staffing, timing
of initiation and duration of activities. The project would finance incremental staffing, limited
small equipment, transport/travel and facilities needed to establish and operate up to six ARFs.
3.15       Some 25 research contracts (average value about Rp 20 million) would be awarded
annually to researchers at national research institutes and universities to investigate high-priority
IPM-related topics specified and approved by the IPM Research Commission. Several grants
each year would be available specifically to researchers wishing to undertake research activities
at either a site for the Habitat Studies or at the ARFs. The current 5-member Research
Commission would be expanded by the inclusion of three members from AARD. The
Commission would meet twice a year to consider research proposals and a small secretariat
would be provided to assist in the processing, review and management of the research contracts.
The project would finance the grants, operating costs of the secretariat and allowances and travel
costs of the Commission. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Inter alia the
utility, quality and effectiveness of such research would be continuously monitored and evaluated
under the project [para. 7.1(c)].
3.16       The Monitoring and Evaluation activities (see Annex 4 for details) to be supported
under the project, would include an assessment of the quality as well as the targets of IPM
training achieved through FFSs, which form a key element of the project. The aspects of IPM
training to be covered by the M&E team would include standard agronomic and economic
indicators such as means and variances of yields, costs, pesticides used, and returns to farmer,
but more importantly, would also include farmers' group performance, strengths of local
initiatives, modifications/adaption of technology, and the extent of local government/community
support for IPM activities. Measures of farmers' conservation of biodiversity, such as density
of natural enemy communities and the duration over which locally successful varieties are grown
will provide valuable information to the policy practitioners, including the environmentalists and
agriculturists. The effectiveness of the organization/management systems, at the local level and
within the farm communities, as well as the continued integration of the IPM program into the
MOA activities, will need to be gauged. The timing of the M&E activities would be linked to
the key stages of the project, such as initial establishment of the MIS system, the mid-term
review, and the final project year review. Provisions for technical assistance for these activities
are detailed in Annex 5.



- 19 -
Policy Aspects
- Strengthening Regulatory and Environmental Management of Pesticides
3.17       The project would support an agreed action plan (Annex 1) for strengthening
regulatory and environmental management of pesticides. The Pesticides Commission would
review problematic pesticides before their expiry of registration, and by no later than January
1995, determine if these pesticides can be replaced by less hazardous alternatives which would
also be acceptable in the context of IPM. Following the decision made on each of these
pesticides, their import, manufacture, and use would be phased out. An implementation plan
for this phase out will be prepared.
3.18       Recognizing the lack of information on the various aspects of pesticides, a key
element of the program would be the establishment within the MIS system of the project, a
procedure for the flow of information on pesticides management and its dissemination. The
program will analyze data and prepare reports of relevance to pesticide usage and impacts in
Indonesia. The work will include reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement
of pesticide labeling regulations, nature of packaging, nature and scale of unwanted stocks of
pesticides, sale and storage of pesticides, and improvement of disseminating pesticide information
throughout the community.
3.19       Some existing manufacturing and formulation facilities may be substandard. It is
proposed that an environmental audit be carried out as part of the action plan to ensure
compliance with relevant environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations,
(Annex 8).
3.20       Para. 1.21 which deals with Pesticides Commission and Secretariat, shows several
shortcomings under the present establishment. Taking this into consideration, the Action Plan
(Annex 1) has been formulated to improve the system of pesticides control and enforcement in
the country. It is essential that several factors are reviewed before an effective system can be
formulated in order to carry out the rather complicated and specialized task. Among the factors
to be reviewed are: the membership of the Commission, its level in the GOI hierarchy and the
level of the Chairman; status of the Secretariat; staffing, expertise and supporting facilities of
the Secretariat taking into consideration other laboratories that are presently available throughout
the country and are able to carry out analysis of pesticide formulations, residues on agricultural
produce, efficacy, and resistance studies, etc. An assessment of the present situation on the
various aspects of pesticides proposed in the Action Plan including, control of worker safety,
effluents of formulation and manufacturing plants, transportation of pesticides, and poison
information center, most of which are presently being carried out by various agencies must also
be considered. Plans will be needed for strengthening local expertise in the various disciplines
of pesticides control, by recruiting suitable staff and providing in-service training in the
respective fields of pesticides control, including enforcement. Supporting services such as
laboratories, and field testing stations must also be reviewed. The project would support
consultancy services to assist the Government to review the present status and implement the
recommendations related to the pesticide policies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that: (a) the Government would, not later September 30, 1993, expand the membership of the
IPM Working Group to include members of all agencies implementing the Action Plan to
coordinate with the pesticides regulations/environment experts [para. 7. l(d)J and (b) the Action
Plan would be implemented, as reviewed and agreed with the Bank [para. 7. 1(e)].



- 20 -
Technical Assistance
3.21       Annex 5 includes the details of technical assistance (about US$11 million) to be
supported under the project. The FAO technical assistance service is expected to provide about
260 person-months of international consultancy (US$4.2 million)1/ and 629 months of national
consultancy (US$1.1 million),Z/ while being supported by incremental administrative and
support staff (US$2.0 million). Major areas of technical support would be human resource
development (training and curriculum development experts), field investigations and studies
(epidemiologists, micro-organism ecologists and public health specialists), and the management
information systems. Limited support would be provided by the FAO in the areas of
cartography and the gender (WID) aspects of the project. The FAO consultancy services (Annex
5) would be phased down by the fourth year of the project, as the local capacity concurrently
develops. In addition, the project would support a separate M&E consultancy (USUS$0.5
million), and about 15 person months of international pesticides regulations/environment experts
(US$0.3 million). Commissioned/contracted out research to local universities etc. is expected
to amount to another US$1.4 million. Draft TORs for all the consultancies are included in
Annex 7 of the Preparation Report. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all the
consultants, with the exception of those which are planned to commence after the first year of
the project, would be employed no later than December 31, 1993 [para. 7.1(f)].
I/ FiguIes in parentheses include contingencies.
Z/ This excludes the cost of FAO management (US$1.7 million) which is included in Table 4.3.






- 21 -
4
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.1        Total project cost is estimated at US$53.0 million (Rp 107 billion) with a foreign
exchange component of US$6.0 million (Rp 12 billion) or 11 percent. The cost estimate is based
on September 1992 prices and includes taxes and duties estimated at US$3.3 million (Rp 6.7
billion). Baseline project costs (excluding physical and price contingencies) are estimated at
US$45.2 million (Rp 91.3 billion) and derived from the costs of each component as estimated
in the project preparation report and reviewed and adjusted during the appraisal. Physical
contingencies have been assessed at 10 percent of the cost of equipment, and 5 percent of the
cost of vehicles, materials, and consultancy services. Price contingency estimates assume
increases in local currency costs of 6.0 percent per annum during the project period and
increases in foreign exchange costs of 3.7 percent per annum throughout.
4.2       The costs of each component/activity are based on 41 separate budgets included in
the preparation document. These include detailed costs based on the experience of the IPM
program to date, and are disaggregated by unit costs and physical quantities, with every
expenditure item spelled out.
4.3        Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 and detailed in Annex 2,
Tables 1 and 2.
Financing
4.4        The proposed Bank loan of US$32.0 million would finance 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs and 56 percent of the local currency costs of the project. This represents
60 percent of total project costs, and 65 percent of costs exclusive of taxes (US$3.3 million) and
reserve procurement of vehicles (US$0.2 million). USAID would provide US$7.0 million as
a grant, to be administered by the Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and
procedures. Government of Indonesia would finance the balance of US$14.0 million. The
Government contribution would finance incremental staff, vehicles, taxes and duties, as well as
project administration costs. The project financing plan is set out in Table 4.2 and the details
are contained in Annex 2, Table 3.
Implementation Schedule
4.5       The Annual Work Progran (AWP), which would cover all project activities, would
be a key project implementation mechanism. Project implementing agencies at the provincial
and local levels (paras. 5.4-5.7) would prepare the AWP for their components which would be



- 22 -
Table 4.1: PROJECr COST SUMMARY
Local         Foreign       Total La
-------- (US$ million)-----------------
Project Components:
A. Human Resource Development
* Training of Pest Observers,
Ext. Workers and Farmers L             30.8           1.4          32.2
* Management Information Systems          1.1            -             1.1
B. Supporting Studies and Field
Investigations
* Occupational Health and Habitat Studies    0.8        0.1            0.9
* Field Laboratories                      0.5            -             0.5
* Contracted-out Research and
Mapping Data bases                     0.3                          0.3
C. Policy Support                             0.6           -             0.6
D. Technical Assistance /c                    6.0           3.6            9.6
Base Costs                               40.1           5.1           45.2
Physical Contingencies                    0.9           0.4            1.3
Price Contingencies                       6.1           0.4            6.5
Total Project Costs                      47.1           S9            53.
L/  Inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of US$3.3 million equivalent and reserve
procurement (of vehicles) of US$0.2 million.
Lb  Includes in-service training for extension workers and agro-eco systems training.
Lc   This is primarily for institutional capacity/human resource development, and partly for
supporting studies and policy support (see Annex 4 for details).
collated at the central level by the FAO Technical Assistance Team attached to the Working
Group. The draft project AWPs for each subsequent fiscal year would be submitted to the Bank
by January 1 each year, for review, to cover the ensuing Government's fiscal year beginning
April 1. The criteria upon which the Bank's review and concurrence of the AWP would be
based are as follows:
(a)  the adequacy of such programs for implementing project objectives are consistent
with the requirements of the Loan Agreement; and



- 23 -
Table 4.2: PROJECr FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Funding Source                  Local     Foreign        Total         Percent
Government                        14.0         -           14.0           27
USAID                              6.5        0.5           7.0           13
Bank                              26.6        5.4          32.0           6OLa
Total                           47.1        5.9
La 65 percent of project costs, excluding taxes and reserve procurement of vehicles.
(b)  the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial and staffing
resources to implement and sustain the targets set for the ensuing project year.
In addition to the AWP (by January 1 each year), annual progress reports (by June 30), and at
least three monitoring and evaluation reports [end of the first year Oatest by March 31, 1994),
prior to mid-term review (April 30, 1995) and the final project year Oatest by June 30, 1998)]
would be submitted to the Bank. A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken
July 31, 1995 to review all the targets/priorities. At that juncture, a decision would also be
taken by the Government and the Bank, whether the longer-term sustainability of the program
requires the MOA to take over the coordination/management responsibilities at the national level
as well. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these arrangements are acceptable
and would be followed by Government [paras. 7.1(g) and 7.1(h)].
Procuremnent
4.6       Equipment. It is expected that the equipment (US$0.8 million) is largely of the
kind which cannot be suitably bulked and packages are of small items costing less than
US$200,000 equivalent. These would be procured through Government LCB procedures,
acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$600,000. Computers and
printers would be grouped in a package costing US$200,000 or more and would be procured by
ICB in accordance with the Bank guidelines for procurement of goods. Eligible domestic
manufacturers bidding on goods under ICB would receive a 15 percent preference or the customs
duties, whichever is lower in bid comparison. The equipment will include calculators,
typewriters, and furniture. Details are included in the project cost tables (available in project
files). The Government would provide vehicles (US$0.2 million), which because of restrictions
on the import of foreign vehicles must be classified as reserved procurement. This has been
excluded in estimating the Bank share of financing. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government would acquire the vehicles for the project, in accordance with a
plan and timetable acceptable to the Bank [para. 7.1 (i)].  Materials and Supplies (US$8.6
million) to be financed by the loan, would be procured by local shopping procedures acceptable
to the Bank. These are miscellaneous items including office supplies, trainers' books/supplies,
uniforms, media brochures, study guides, field laboratory and experimental supplies as well as



- 24 -
maintenance of utilities. These items will1be procured for the FTFs, FFSs, field labs, Provincial
and District Program Offices, spread over 12 provinces, and purchases phased over five years.
No central or one-time procurement of such miscellaneous items is possible.
4.7        Consultancy Services. Consultancy services (US$11.2 million-para. 3.21), and
those provided by the FAO (US$9.0 million) under the Unilateral Trust Fund Agreement
between GOI and the FAO, would be procured internationally in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. The Government encourages use of joint ventures
between foreign and local firms under arrangements acceptable to the Bank. The Monitoring
and Evaluation consultancy would not be a part of the FAO/GOI Agreement and wotild be
recruited in accordance with Bank's Guidelines. The Environment/Pesticides Regulations expert
would also not be recruited under the FAO contract, but could be a direct appointment in view
of the highly specialized expertise needed.
4.8        Review of Procurement.  Each contract for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$200,000 or more and international consultant invitation documents, proposed
awards and contracts, each costing US$100,000 and more would be reviewed by the Bank.
However, this threshold will not apply to TORs of all consultants, contracts with individual
consultants and for single source selection of firms and assignments of a critical nature. To the
extent possible, standardized documents would be used to facilitate the review. Government will
use the documents previously accepted by the Bank. Regarding the SOEs related to training
(including procurement of materials and supplies) there would be a post-review by the Bank on
a sample basis. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.
Disbursements
4.9        Disbursements of the Bank Loan will be made as follows:
Category                      Amount             Disbursement Rate
(US$ million)
(a)  Equipment-non-vehicles                0.7         100%   of  foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures and
65 %  of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(b)  Training including related          18.6         70% of expenditures.
materials, supplies, travel
and per diems
(c)   Consultancy Services                7.7         100%
(d)  Unallocated                          5.0
Total                            32l



- 25 -
Table 43: NoctmzEMEr PLAN
(US .ll.)
Po o   m"                      Total
Project expendituresa         ICB         CB        Other      N.B.F.&   cost
* Miscnsaneous MaterWls aDd Supplies                  8 6L                 8.6
(8.6)                (8.6)
* Per Diems                                          l4.6j1               14.6
(14.6               (14.6)
* Travel                                              3.8                  3.8
(3.8)                (3.8)
* Staff Costs                                                   8.3j2      8.3
* FJon-vehicles                0.2        0.6                              0.8
* Vehicles lf                 (0.2)      (0.6)                  0.2       (0.28)
Comultants
* FAO - Intemational                                  4.2                  4.2
(4.2)                (4.2)
- National                                     2.8                  2.8
(28)                 (2.8)
- Support Staff Costs                          2.0                  2.0
(2.0)                (2.0)
* Non-FAO - International                             0.8                  0.8
i0.8)                (0.8)
- National Universities                    1.4                  1.4
and Research Commission                (1.4)                (1.4)
ProJect Administration Cests
* Central and Provincial Project Offices                        2.2        2.2
Taxes and Duties                                                3.3
rgw                   0.2  z6              au    Lu
/a   The ICB, LCB and Other columns represent US$32.0 million of Bank Loan funds and
US$7.0 million of USAID  rnt fnds which will be allocated on the basis of
82 percent Bank loan and 18 percent I>SAID grant funds to the project expenditures
indicated.
h    Not Bank financed.
Off-the-shelf local procurement of miscellaneous items.
Ld   These are small amounts per trainerltraine covr  pa yments meals,
lodging/boarding costs, but for aar on e, pD=cul rly of the trainees, about one
mflrlon during S year averaging USS 14 per trainee.
La   These are ssentially for field researches, data bas manaers, computer opeators
secretarial staff, drivers. Also included we honoraria for the cental and provinciaf
level project staff
Lf   Govemment provision (through reserve procuremet) of vehicles. This has boen
excluded in estmati the Bank share of financing.
Note: Figures inparentheses idicate expected diburoments from the proposd Bank loan
including those from USAID gat; figures include contingencies.



- 26 -
4.10      Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for contracts
valued at less than US$200,000, covering expenditures for training, including related
miscellaneous materials, travel, per diems, etc. Disbursement for other expenditures would be
on the basis of full documentation. Documentation for SOE expenditures would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by project implementing agencies and DG Budget of MOF and
made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision. Total
disbursement against SOE would amount to US$23.0 million or 72 percent of the Bank Loan
amount. The schedule of disbursements for the project is estimated as follows:
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Bank FY                       FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98
Annual                        5.0      7.5       7.5       6.0      6.0
Cumulative                    5.0     12.5      20.0      26.0     32.0
Cumulative %                 16       39        63        81       100
4.11      Although disbursement is considerably faster than the standard disbursement profile
(see Annex 3), the above disbursement schedule is justified because under the IPM program to
date, about US$6.0 million has been expended each year. The implementing agencies at the
local level are now well experienced and stronger on implementation of the program. The
project targets are relatively modest in scope and realistic to achieve in the project period. These
could be adjusted, if necessary, in the context of the annual work programs and the mid-term
review of the project. Project completion date is March 31, 1998. Loan closing date is
expected by September 30, 1998.
4.12      In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened in Bank
Indonesia for the purpose of the project by the Ministry of Finance (DG Budget). The use of
the Special Account would be for withdrawals, in all categories, relating to all foreign and local
currency expenditures as long as the withdrawals do not substantially deplete the balance in the
Special Account. The account would be maintained in US dollars and an initial deposit of
US$1.0 million would be made. At the initiative of the Government, replenishment of the
Special Account would be made monthly or when the balance reaches 50 percent of the initial
deposit amount, whichever occurs first.
Accounts and Audits
4.13      Separate detailed accounts would be kept by the head of the Secretariat (PIMPRO),
FTFs, and the Provincial and District Program Offices, for each budget item under their charge
by project and budget year. Project accounts are subject to two audits by: (a) the Inspector
General of concerned Ministries; and (b) the Financial and Development Supervisory Board
(BPKP). The work of both auditors has been generally found satisfactory on Bank-assisted



- 27 -
projects. Accounting procedures currently in use and institutional capabilities are adequate to
support SOE applications.
4.14       Assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  the implementing agencies participating in the project would establish and maintain
adequate and separate accounts from the beginning of project implementation and
that such accounts would be maintained in accordance with the sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as to
enable these agencies to provide annual financial statements to reflect the financial
performance and status of project components;
(b)  all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and orders and receipts
would be kept for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made;
(c)  the Special Account, including records and documentation of receipts and
withdrawals, would be maintained as deemed satisfactory by the Bank and a
consolidated audit report for the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank
within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year; and
(d)  independent audits by BPKP of each year's project accounts, including the
consolidated audits of SOEs together with a separate opinion by the auditor, would
be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal
year [para. 7.1 0)]. As part of the reporting requirements for the project, it was
understood that the unaudited accounts would be submitted as soon as available but
not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year, and the audit of project
accounts would be consolidated.






- 28 -
5
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMIENT
AND IMPLEMENTATION
National Level Organization and Management
5.1          The project would use the existing organizational arrangements, which have
functioned well in the pilot IPM program. Ihe highest decision-making body for the project
would continue to be the inter-ministerial Steering Committee (Chart 1). The Committee would
provide direction to project operations by acting as the approving authority for workplans,
budgets, research contracts, etc.
5.2          The Steering Committee would act under the general guidance of the Advisory
Board as under the existing arrangement. The Board is a forum for evaluating the overall
progress of the project, and for providing advice and leadership in the event that the Steering
Committee and lower-level entities are unable to produce the planned outputs.
5.3          The Central Secretariat and the Working Group would continue to be the
operational arms of the Steering Committee, each having distinct responsibilities vis-a-vis the
program agencies in the field.
(a)    The Secretriat would support the Steering Committee by supervising all
fiancial and admionistrative aspects of the project. In particular, the Secretariat
would be responsible for mobilizing and monitoring the flow of inputs which are
required to implement the decisions of the Committee, and would be the
principal disbursement unit for project funds. The Secretariat would be located
in BAPPENAS and headed by the Project Leader (Pimpro). The staffing and
facilities of the Secretariat will be up-graded during the project so that it can
cope with the increased worldoad.
(b)   The Working Group would support the Steering Committee by supervising all
conceptual, technical and operational aspects of the project. In particular, the
Working Group is responsible for the appraisal of workplans prior to submission
to the Committee, and for seeking or preparing proposals relating to the content
and method of project activities. The membership of the Working Group is
drawn from the major agencies in MOA responsible for IPM, BAPPENAS,
Ministries of Health, Environment and Industry, and national universities.
Under a Chairman appointed by the Steering Committee, the Working Group
will continue to be made up of three parties; the Research Commission, the
University Consortium and the Technical Assistance Team. The technical
assistance team will be supported by the appointment of a full-time National



- 29 -
Program Development Specialist who will act as the day-to-day counterpart of
the resident Team Leader.
Provindal and Field Level Organization and Managemnent
5.4           Basic Structure. The proposed field organization (Chart 2) will continue to have
four layers as follows:
(a)    Within subdistricts, FFSs and follow-up activities will be organized either by
PHPs assisted by PPLs, or by farmers themselves.
(b)    At the district level, Field Leaders (FL2s) will be responsible for managing the
training and other IPM-related tasks performed by PHPs.
(c)    At the subprovince level, a FL1 with supporting staff will provide back-stopping
for the activities of the District offices, and directly manage special studies.
(d)    Coordinating the activities of all FLIs and FL2s will be the Heads of FTFs, or
Provincial Program Officers. The officers at this level provide a link between
the field operations of the IPM program and the central project structure.
5.5          Changes in Field Organization During the Project. The following changes
will occur as FTF-based training (aimed principally at training PHPs and PPLs) is superseded
by Field Schools (aimed at training farmers) and follow-up activities organized by the PHP
alumni or by graduate IPM farmers:
(a)    A Provincial Program Officer (PPO) will be appointed to replace the Head of
the FTF as the overall coordinator of field activities at the Provincial level.
(b)    Field Leaders who were part of the FTF training team will be reassigned to
either Subprovincial or District Offices.
(c)    The number of Farmer Field Schools organized by each PHP, and the ratios
between PHP, FL2, and FL1, will become more variable once the FTF is
disbanded. This is because field staff will have a number of other duties to
perform and, as the 1PM program expands, it must be adapted to the distinct
needs and resources which exist in different areas.
5.6          Strengthening of Planning and Management Capability. The project will
support the strengthening of capability at the district and subprovincial levels as follows:
(a)    Subprovincial Program Offices (SPPOs) will be established, using the existing
physical facilities of a laboratory, a rural extension center or a Dinas office.
The SPPO will be headed by a FLI, supported by four FL2s assigned to two
units: a planning support unit and a technical support unit.
(b)    A Management Information system (MIS) wIll be established to improve the
flow and use of information among all levels of the project. In particular, the



- 30 -
MIS will enable computerized consolidation of plans and reports at the
subprovincial level.
(c)    Management-related training will be organized for Field Leaders, including
subjects such as workplanning, budgeting, information management and group
leadership.
5.7         IUnks with Local Goverunent.  The formation of working groups at the
Provincial and District level will be encouraged, and coordination workshops will be organized
when needed. Working groups will be kept informed by the Field Leader at the appropriate
level with regard to all planned, ongoing and completed IPM activities. The allocation of local
government resources to support IPM activities will be encouraged during this process.
Planning and Flnandal Management Procedures
5.8          A "functional chain" will be established which is designed to achieve a number
of ends: maintain clear lines of authority and precise boundaries of responsibility in accordance
with existing Government decrees; make best use of the expertise of the entities involved; create
a judicious balance of worldoad and accountability. The chain of events will be as follows:
(a)    Plans and budgets for PHP-training activities will be prepared by the training
teams which work under the provincial office (FTE3 head. The Head of the
FrF submits these plans directdy to the Central Working Group;
Q,)   Plans and budgets for follow-up training activities will continue to be prepared
by Field leaders at the District Program Offices (DPO). These will be prepared
in consultation with PHPs and farmer organizations and include provision for
fixed and open content activities. The DPO plans will be consolidated by the
Planning Support Unit at the Subprovincial Level. The consolidated plans will
then be compiled by the Provincial Offices and submitted to the Central Working
Group;
(c)    The Working Group will appraise the plans and budgets coming from the field,
integrate these with technical proposals from other sources (e.g., Research
Consortium), and submit to the Steering Committee with recommended action;
(d)   The Steering Committee will review the submissions of the WG, give approval
(or reject, or defer), and pass its decision on to the Project Leader (Pimpro) for
finalization;
(e)    The Pimpro, as head of the Secretariat, will transfer funds to special accounts
held by Kuasa Pimpros who are in charge of the logistics unit of either a Field
Training Facility or a Provincial Project Office;
(f)    Kuasa Pimpros will disburse funds in three different ways: they will make
direct payments to cover the operating costs of FTFs; they will transfer funds
to Subprovincial Program Offices to pay for special studies; they will transfer
funds to District Program Offices to pay for Farmer Field Schools (and other
follow-up activities) managed by PHP alumni and farmer graduates. All



- 31 -
transfers will be made as lump sum advances based on approved quarterly
budgets (rather than item-by-item reimbursements).
(g)   District Program Officers (FL2) will hold accounts from which they can disburse
the funds required to run the activities in their area. For this to become
operational, FL2s would be designated as PUMK (holder, disburser of
advances); they will then be able to make cash advances to PHPs and farmer
groups. The accounts/expenditures and supporting documents would be
submitted during monthly meetings in the field, and a 3-month submission
deadline would be applied to ensure that complete and accurate accounting is
maintained throughout the project.
5.9          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, no later than October 31,
1993, an accounting system would be established by which provincial subproject managers
(kuasa pimpinan proyek) are authorized to establish government accounts from which advances
shall be made, based on approved budgets, to field leaders in Kabupaten Integrated Pest
Management Program Offices for project activides. These and other planning and financial
management procedures (Chart 3) for project implementation, as agreed with the Bank, would
be established and maintained [para. 7.1(k)]. Implementation schedules for training programs
are given in Attachment 1 of Annex 4.



- 32 -
6
PROJECT IMPACT
BENEISA    JuSTCATON
6.1           The use of IPM generates a broad range of social and economic benefits at the
farm, village and national levels. At the farm level, these include cash savings from reductions
in pesticide use, lower production risk, higher yields, health benefits for farmers and farm
laborers and a cleaner village environment. At the national level, the large-scale implementation
of IPM will reduce the risk of major pest outbreaks, result in substantial savings of foreign
exchange, contribute to the conservation of biodiversity in the rice ecosystem and reduce
environmental damage resulting from the production, transportation, storage and use of
pesticides.
Econonic Benefits
6.2          Reduced Expenditures on Pesticides. IPM-trained farmers reduce input costs
by eliminating unnecessary pesticide applications. A study of 2,000 Indonesian rice farmers
before and after IPM training carried out in 1991 showed that IPM farmers reduced pesticide
use by an average of 58 percent per season.j/ The study also showed that the distribution of
economic benefits from IPM practices were independent of farm size and land tenure status.
Thus, farmers from all social strata derived direct economic benefits from IPM.
6.3          Increased Yields and Reduced Risk. Yield comparisons from nine Asian
countries, including Indonesia, indicate that rice yields for IPM fields are significantly higher
than those obtained from standard farm practices. IPM yield gains are obtained by reducing
losses due to pests, more efficient management of water and other inputs, and by enabling
farmers to adapt cultivation practices to suit local conditions. Superior management practices
and the elimination of prophylactic spraying also result in more stable yields and therefore lower
production risk. This latter benefit is of particular importance to small farmers, for whom the
loss of just one crop can mean indebtedness and forced sales of land. The potential income
distribution effects of IPM are therefore positive and significant.
6.4          Reduced Risk of Major Pest Outbreaks. The adoption of IPM as the nation's
pest control strategy will reduce the likelihood of large-scale pest outbreaks in the main rice-
producing regions. First, continual field observations by 1PM farmers will help identify potential
problems prior to or during the early stages of the rice season. Second, cooperative methods
practiced by EPM farmers groups provide a more effective response to potential outbreaks than
I/ 'Farmer Field School Survey: Impact of IPM Training on Farmers' Pest Control Behavior',
Iategrated Pest Management National Program, UTF/INS/067/INS, June 1991.



- 33 -
the approaches associated with pesticide-intensive strategies. Third, use of IPM by individual
farmers creates positive externalities in the form of the conservation of insect predators, thereby
correcting imbalances in the rice ecosystem caused by long periods of intensive insecticide use.
6.5           Savings/Earnings of Foreign Exchange.  Reduced pesticide use translates
directly into savings of foreign exchange since most domestic pesticide producers import active
ingredients. Depending on the actual share of imports in production costs, reduced pesticide
consumption could result in foreign exchange savings of about $17 million (para. 6.12) during
the life of the project. An additional potential source of foreign exchange savings is import
substitution in rice. Increased yield stability and more effective response mechanisms to the
threat of major pest outbreaks will support Indonesia's efforts to maintain rice self-sufficiency.
The adoption of IPM for vegetables could help expand Indonesian export markets by reducing
pesticide residues.
Health and Environment
6.6           Health. Pesticide poisoning is a major occupational health hazard confronting
farmers and farm laborers. The vast majority of pesticides sold for agricultural uses are
hazardous to humans and other animals as well as insects. Humans who come in contact with
or ingest these substances run the risk of illness or death. Although few in-depth studies have
been carried out concerning the health effects of pesticide use, it is widely recognized that the
dangers are greatest in developing countries, where few farmers or farm laborers can afford even
a minimum of protective equipment. Data from the World Health Organization suggests that an
average of 3 percent of farmers and agricultural workers in developing countries suffer an
incident of acute pesticide poisoning each year, although even this figure most likely
underestimates the extent of the problem._/ As part of the IPM field school, farmers receive
information about the health implications of pesticide use and conduct practical experiments
relating to toxicity. Increased awareness of the dangers of pesticides helps farmers to eliminate
unnecessary applications, and to protect their families and neighbors from improperly stored or
labeled chemicals.
6.7           The Environment. Irrigated rice is the single most important user of pesticides
in Indonesia. Pesticide pollution is therefore a major cause for concern in Indonesia's densely
populated village communities, particularly where water for drinking and bathing is in limited
supply. In addition to the danger to humans from contaminated water, pesticide pollution also
poisons farm animals such as water buffalo and ducks and contaminates fish ponds, resulting in
direct economic losses to farmers. Moreover, pesticide use represents a sizeable opportunity cost
since the presence of pesticides prevents farmers from raising fish in rice paddy fields.2/
Wildlife are also threatened by pesticides, especially through the contamination of fresh water
sources. In addition to pesticide run-off at the point of use, pollution is also generated during
the production, transport and storage of pesticides. The disposal of hazardous wastes produced
by the pesticide industry in landfills and rivers is a particularly serious problem, although little
reliable information is available with regard to this.
2/  Jayaratnam, J., 'Acute Pesticide Poisoning: A Major Global Health Problem', World Health
Statistic Quarterly, 43, 3, 1990, p. 139-144.
3/  Waibel, Hermann, 'Comparative Economics of Pesticide Use in Rice and Rice Fish Farming',
unpublished paper, Asian Institute of Technology, 1990.



- 34 -
6.8          Biodiversity. Rice intensification in Asia has relied heavily on the generation
of new high-yielding, pest-resistant varieties. However, intensive pesticide use has been shown
to break down pest resistance in new varieties. By reducing dependence on pesticides, IPM
extends the life-span of rice varieties and enables farmers to continue production of popular
varieties (such as Cisadane in Indonesia) and thereby increasing farmers' profits. The increased
life-span of new varieties, and the capacity to bring back older varieties previously abandoned
because of susceptibility to pest infestation, represents an important contribution to genetic
diversity in the rice ecosystem.
Economic Analysis
6.9          An economic analysis of the benefits and costs of the proposed project is
presented in Annex 6. Indicative farm budgets for rice and soybeans (as a proxy for palawija
cultivation) prepared to estimate costs and benefits at farm level, are included in the Project
Preparation Document (revised volume). Estimates of reductions in pesticide are based on data
from the 1991 impact study. A constant yield increase of 1.5 percent has been assumed for
IPM-trained rice farmers to reflect productivity gains and decreased production risk. The
opportunity cost of labor days required for training and for carrying out field observations has
also been included in the farm budgets. The analysis assumes that the total number of farmers
trained in IPM will be about 800,000.
6.10         The economic analysis also includes a small number of farmers (97,000)
practicing IPM for soybeans. Farmer group discussions were organized by the preparation team
in 12 locations in Central Java, West Sumatra and Aceh for the purposes of the analysis, in order
to estimate reductions in pesticide use resulting from 1PM palawija training. Based on these
discussions and on FTF data on palawija training, a constant 3 percent yield gain has been
included for IPM-trained soybean farmers. In addition, the soybean farm budget incorporates
a 20 percent reduction in urea use.
6.11         An allowance for health benefits-in the form of labor days and medical expenses
saved-has also been included in the analysis. Due to lack of reliable data on the occupational
health effects of pesticide use, extremely conservative assumptions were made concerning both
the number of farmers affected and the economic cost of each incident of acute poisoning. The
health benefits included in the analysis have no effect on the project's economic rate of return.
In view of data limitations, no benefits have been included for environmental benefits, the
reduced threat of major pest outbreaks, or for IPM's contribution to genetic diversity in the rice
ecosystem.
6.12         Foreign exchange savings-limited to those savings resulting directly from
reductions in pesticide use-are estimated at US$17.2 million during the life of the project, based
on the assumption that foreign exchange costs represent only 15 percent of pesticide production
costs. The project period has been taken as 15 years. This is an extremely cautious assumption
since it assumes that benefits will cease only 11 years after the last farmer has been trained and
that no farmers will be trained after 1997. Moreover, no benefits from farmer to farmer
diffusion have been included for the period after 1997. The analysis includes all project costs,
excluding price contingencies and taxes/duties.



- 35 -
6.13         Based on the assumptions listed above and economic prices provided in Annex 6,
the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 32 percent. Switching values confirm
that the project is not sensitive to relatively large changes in the benefit and cost streams.
Table 6.1: ECONONMC RATE OF RETURN (ERR)
Net present value La (Rp billion)                           263
ERR (percent)                                                32
Switching values 1k
- Benefits                                                -57
- Costs                                                   133
La   Based on the opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
lb   Percentage change which reduces NPV to zero.
Role of Women
6.14         Women are centrally involved in crop management practices by virtue of their
decision-making power, their control of the farm budget, and their labor input. Making women
knowledgeable of IPM practices will significantly increase its effective spread throughout the rice
farmers of Indonesia. Injecting this information into the women's communication networks will
ensure that the practice of 1PM can spread to all farmers, not just the males. The sustainability
of the project benefits, which depends heavily on the horizontal spread of IPM practices from
farmer-to-farmer would be enhanced.
6.15         Concerted efforts to remove gender specific barriers will be made in every aspect
of project operations. It is expected that women's enrollment will approach 30 percent of all
trainees. This figure is not to be interpreted as a quota or a ceiling, but rather as a target against
which the project can measure its success. It is not expected that all FFSs or farmer-to-farmer
training will achieve a 30 percent enrollment figure. Some areas, such as Sumatra can be
expected to produce enrollments far in excess of 50 percent, counter-balancing places where
women's participation in farming is less intense. Some areas, such as Bali, where women find
more opportunities for non-agricultural work, can be expected to involve fewer women in the
IPM program.
6.16         The proposed project will focus inter alla on the following aspects: (a) Analyze
the socio-economic dynamics of Indonesia's major rice areas to target the priority areas for
increasing women's participation, looking at social, economic, or other cultural factors which
make women's need to know about IPM more urgent than in others; (b) Conduct village theater
performances, and other broadly targeted non-traditional formats, advertising the coming of a
field school in all project areas; (c) Take a flexible approach to scheduling the time of the school
activities if required to suit the more severely time-constrained women; (d) Include data on
women's participation in monitoring and evaluation indicators; (e) Include articles on the need
for women's participation in the newsletter, the Desa Profiles booklet, and other material sent



- 36 -
out from the project secretariat to raise the consciousness; and (f) Develop a component on
training of women, accompanied by case studies of successful approaches and the resulting
benefits and integrate it into all the project training components for new and existing FLs, PHPs
and PPLs as well as Government officials.
A. SUSTAiNABrITY, RiSKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Sustainability
6.17         The long-term sustainability of IPM will depend to a considerable degree on its
appeal to farmers and local government authorities. The program as structured to date relies
heavily on the provincial and district staff of Ditlin (PHPs) and PPLs under local government
control, and future sustainability at these levels will therefore largely depend on a willingness
of the local government authorities to continue to assign staff and funds to IPM. There are clear
signs of local government interest and commitment to IPM.
6.18         At the national level, the long-term sustainability of IPM will depend on how
well the program converges with GOI policies and strategies for the organization, management
and implementation of agricultural training, extension and research. The AAET will, under the
project, provide one year of IPM type experiential training at the end of the in-service training
course for PPLs. The DGFCA has agreed that it will allow PHPs and PPLs to continue their
involvement with IPM. The strengthening of links with the research establishment through
increasing the representation of AARD on the research commission will help improve the
coordination of the research agendas of the National IPM Program and AARD. The mid-term
review of the project in 1995 will further determine the adjustments, if any, needed at the
organization/management level, to ensure the sustainability of the program.
Risks and Uncertainties
6.19         Although the IPM program, to date, is regarded as a success story, it has been
of a pilot nature, training some 140,000 farmers. The proposed project would replicate and
expand the program, whereby about 800,000 farmers would be trained. This expansion of the
program could constitute a risk if the management capacity is strained. Another risk stems from
the aggressive marketing tactics of the pesticide companies which can be expected to continue
to exert strong pressure on Government to modify policies supportive of IPM. There also
remains the risk of MOA tending to emphasize the concept that pesticides are a reliable fall-
back. These risks will be minimized by continuing to use the current organizational and
implementation arrangements until a decision is made on the appropriateness of transferring the
management of the program at the national level to MOA, and by setting irreversible processes
in place via farmer training and education. The IPM program will help in gradually extending
thefarmerparticipatory training approach beyond the rice ecosystem to other ecologies, and for
other crops as well as other aspects of crop protection and farm management, and thereby
contribute to changing the overall culture and approach of MOA to extension services.






-37 -
7
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1          At Negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from Govermnent:
(a)   senior PHPs (field leaders, FLI at the province level and FL2 at the district
level) would continue to be fully seconded to the IPM program during the life
of the project (para. 3.8);
(b)   the job descriptions of PHPs and PPLs as amended would remain unchanged so
that they can carry out the IPM-related activities during the regular course of
their duties (para. 3.8);
(c)   the utility, quality and effectiveness of the contracted-out research (by the IPM
Research Commission) would be continuously monitored and evaluated (para.
3.15);
(d)   membership of the IPM Working Group would be expanded to include members
of all agencies implementing the Action Plan no later than September 30, 1993,
to coordinate with the pesticides regulations/environment experts (para. 3.20);
(e)   the Action Plan for strengthening the regulatory and environmental management
of pesticides, would be implemented, as reviewed and agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.20);
(f)   consultants would be employed no later than December 31, 1993 (para. 3.21);
(g)   the draft Annual Work Programs Oatest by January 1 each year), annual
progress reports Oatest by June 30 each year), and at least three monitoring and
evaluation reports [end of the first year (March 31, 1994), prior to mid-term
review (April 30, 1995) and the final project year (June 30, 1998)1 would be
submitted to the Bank for its review and comments (para. 4.5);
(h)    a mid-term review of the project would be undertaken by July 31, 1995 to
review all the targets/priorities including the progress of consolidation of the
IPM program within MOA (para. 4.5);
(i)   vehicles for the project would be acquired in accordance with a plan and
timetable acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.6);



-38 -
0)    independent audits of project accounts, including the audits of SOEs and the
Special Account would be established and submitted to the Bank within 9 months
of the close of each Government fiscal year (para. 4.14); and
(k)   an accounting system would be astablished no later than October 31, 1993, by
which provincial subproject managers (kuasa pimpinan proyek) are authorized
to establish Government accounts from which advances shall be made, based on
approved budgets, to field leaders in Kabupaten Integrated Pest Management
Program Offices for project activities. These and other planning and financial
management procedures for project implementation, as agreed with the Bank,
would be established and maintaned (para. 5.9).
7.2          With the above agreements and assurances, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of USS32.0 million with a 20-year maturity at the Bank's standard variable rate,
including a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



-39-             ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
8~~~~~~~~~
I  ;-  -  N " "  }3.tS.  0 S
(T    |   .5 8   1    |   3   .a
2~: JX ii I." it.
_     e'1 ^



Area of Reform          Present Stats                  Proposed Action                Implenenting Agency            Time Frame
(b) review nature of existing pedicide
packaging and prepare advice
regarding improvements as
required;
(c) carry out a preliminary review of
the nature and scale of unwanted
stocks of pesticides;
(d) prepare  recommendations  on
bcation, storage rcquirements nd
othe recommendations for storage
and/or sale  of pesicide  and
mentods of enforcement;
(e) prepare  recommendations  for
improving the dissemination of
pestcides information throughout
the community.
4. Environmntadaudit of    There are aneodotal reports    All  existing  manufacturing  and    Ministry of Industry/    06/93 - 06/95
manufacturing  and    that some fciliies may be    formulation plants should be officially    BAPEDAL
formulation facilities  substandard  from   an    auditod to ensure compince with
e n v i r o n m e n t a 1 o r    reevant environmental an oupational
Occupational Health and    health and safey laws and regulations.
Safety point of view.



- 41-                            ANNEX 1
Attachment
ACTION PLAN FOR STRENGTHENING REGULATORY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK FOR PESTICIDES 1/
Introduction
1.           An Action Plan for strengthening the regulatory and environmental framework
for pesticides in Indonesia will be supported under the Integrated Pest Management project. The
following sections elaborate on the recommended scope of work.
Effectiveness of Pesticides Commission
2.           The responsibility of legislative control of pesticides has been vested with the
Pesticides Commission. Based on earlier reports and on discussions with various GOI officials,
it has been concluded that the Commission needs to be strengthened to enable it to effectively
carry out the tasks assigned to it. The current weakness may be attributed to the position/status
it presently occupies in the administrative structure of the Department of Agriculture; lack of
trained personnel, funds, facilities, and in-house specialist expertise. It is proposed that a
detailed review of the Commission be made, taking into consideration the following:
(a)    Repositioning of the Commission to a higher level, either within the same
Department or within another Government agency.
(b)    The inclusion of senior staff of other relevant government departments, not
represented hitherto, as members of the Commission.
(c)    An evaluation of the role of non-profit/community organizations and the
pesticides industry in the Commission, including their representation and
avenues for formal communication with the Commission.
(d)    The development of local expertise through training in the various aspects of
pesticides.
(e)    The development of facilities for enforcement and effective control of pesticides.
(f)   Improved information system for pesticide management, including the permanent
location of such an information function in the Secretariat to the Commission.
(g)    The existing pesticide laws, regulations and Decrees, for the control of import,
manufacture/formulation and application of pesticides.
3.           As part of the review, an implementation plan should be prepared to strengthen
the role and capabilities of the Commission, and thereby enhance its effectiveness in achieving
the objectives. The Plan should include proposed changes to legislation on the control of
I/  Based primarily on the 'International Code of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides
(Amended Version)", Food and Agricultur Orgaizaion of the United Nations, Rome 1990.



-42 -                            ANNEX 1
Atachment
pesticides, based on the lnternational Code of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of
Pesticides' with emphasis on the following:
(a)   registration for import, manufacture/formulation and packaging for sale based
on harmonized registration requirements, proposed under FAO Guidelines.Z/
(b)   labelling of pesticides based on harmonized labelling requirements as proposed
under FAO I/ and Pictograms agreed upon by FAO, as well as on the hazard
classification of Pesticides by WHO.4/
(c)    packaging, taking into account the warm temperatures and high humidity, all of
which contribute towards breakage or leakage of containers, and reduction in
storage stability of pesticide formulations.
(d)   licensing of Pest Control Operators including mandatory training courses on
handling and application of certain highly hazardous pesticides for specific
purpose.
(e)   licensing of premises and outlets, retailing and storing pesticides for sale,
including conditions of handling, storage and sale, depending on the toxicity of
the pesticide.
()    licensing of pesticide manufacturing and formulation plants to ensure comnpliance
with air and waste water emission standards and occupational health and safety
standards.
(g)    participation of the  'Designated  National Authority' (DNA) in the
implementation of the FAOIUNEP "Prior Informed Consent" (PIC) procedures
with regard to the import and export of pesticides that have been banned or
severely restricted in certain countries for health or environmental reasons.
(h)    control of the quality of pesticides on the market.
(i)    control of the maximum pesticide residue levels, permitted in various food
items.
(j)   sampling of pesticide formulations for analysis.
(k)   sampling of food items for analysis.
Z/  Guidelis for the rqiaraton and control of pesticides, FAO, Rome 1985 and Addenda, FAO,
Romw 19U.
I/  Guidelines on good lablling practice for pesticides, FAO, Rome 1985.
I/  I1  WHO rmominded clification of posticides by hawd and guidelines to classification
1992/1993. Intenational Progrm on Chemical Safety, UNEP, ILO, WHO. WHO/PCS/92.14.



- 43 -                           ANNEX 1
Attachment
(1)    reporting of accident, death and personal injury caused by pesticides.
(m)   enforcement, including entry into premises, seizure of offending pesticides,
prosecution, and penalty.
4.           Measures should also be proposed for improvement and increased effectiveness
inter alla, of enforcement against illegal imports, manufacture/packging; improper labelling;
sale of poor quality pesticides; making of false claims with regard to safety of a pesticide to
human health, the environment, or its efficacy.
Status of Problematic Agricultural Pesticdd
5.           Several pesticides that are presently registered and being manufactured,
formulated or imported for use are either acutely very toxic, or their use has been withdrawn
due to environmental or health reasons in certain developed countries. The handling and
application of such pesticides can be very hazardous particularly to farmers and farm workers
who cannot wear the necessary protective clothing due to the higher temperature and humidity
and/or due to the relatively high cost of protective gear. It also appears that most farmers do
not have adequate knowledge or means of following simple hygienic practices expected in the
handling of hazardous pesticides.
6.           There is anecdotal evidence that farmers frequently experience pesticide
poisoning. In addition, based on data from WHO which suggests that an average of 3 percent
of farmers and agricultural workers in developing countries suffer an incident of acute poisoning
each year, it can be extrapolated that there is a large number of poisoning case in Indonesia
which requires early attention.
7.           It is proposed that the Pesticides Commission, in consultation with the Plant
Protection Committee, review such problematic pesticides which should include the following:
(a)    The 57 pesticides that have been banned from use on paddy.
(b)    Formulations which fall in Class la and lb of the WHO Hazard Classification.
(c)    Pesticides which are presently under the PIC procedure.
(d)    Pesticides which are listed as Potential PIC chemicals.
(e)    Pesticides listed in the 'Consolidated List of Products Whose Consumption
and/or Sale have been Banned, Withdrawn, Severely Restricted or not Approved
by Governments.5/
8.           The objective of the review should be to determine if these pesticides can be
replaced by less toxic or less hazardous alternatives. The benefits of each of the pesticides
S/  Fourth Edition. Prred in accordanco with Gmeal Aombly reolubons 37/137, 38/149, 39/229
and 44/226, United Nations, Now York 1991. Depatmet of International Economic and Social
Affairs, 769 pp.



-44-                              ANNEX 1
Attachment
versus hazards under local conditions of handling, transportation and application, including the
detrimental effects they may have on non-target organisms and successful implementation of IPM
should be considered.
9.           The review should be carried out before expiry of their present product
registration, and in any case, no later than January 1995. Proposals to re-register pesticides
should be subject to the concurrence of the Plant Protection Committee.
10.          Following the decision made on each of these pesticides, an mplementation plan
should be proposed, including necessary legal measures for removal of unregistered and de-
registered pesticides from the market.
11.          It is proposed that the control of import, manufacture, and use of pesticides to
be replaced should be implemented and enforced in phases as follows:
(a)   Inform  the registrant that the currently registered pesticide will not be
re-registered, or will be de-registered by January 1995, as the case may be.
(b)    Allow six months to terminate all imports and local manufacture or formulation.
(c)    Allow one year for retailers to dispose of their stocks.
(d)    Allow six months for users to use up their stocks.
(e)    Penalize importers, manufacturers, formulators, retailers and users as and when
each of the above requirements come into force.
Improvement of Information System for Pesticide Management
12.          Pending the review of the Pesticide Commission, a procedure should be
established within the MIS system of the Project, for the flow of information required to receive
and analyze data and prepare reports of relevance to pesticide usage and impacts on Indonesia.
This information repository should be on the mailing list of international agencies, such as the
FAO, WHO, United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) in order to receive information on pesticides on a regular
basis. Similarly it should also receive information from national agencies, such as the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, with reputable schemes for the registration of
pesticides.
13.          In-country information to be obtained and kept updated should include:
(a)    List of registered pesticides by formulation, active ingredient, registrant, etc.
(b)    Use for which the product is registered, including pest/crop, dosage, etc.
(c)    Cases of poisoning incidence, effects on the environment including fish, and
beneficial organisms, development of resistance by pests, phytotoxicity, etc.



- 45 -                           ANNEX 1
Attachment
(d)    Statistics on pesticides import, manufacture and sale.
14.          GOI should in addition undertake the following tasks:
(a)    Review of existing pesticide labelling and prepare advice for improvement. It
has been noted that certain labels do not contain all the necessary information;
some are too small and consequently the print is not legible.
(b)    Review of existing packaging, and prepare advice for improvement. Certain
packages may not be adequate or be strong enough to withstand the rigors of
handling, transport, and relatively long periods of storage in the hot and humid
temperature, all of which contribute towards breakage or leakage of containers,
and reduction in storage stability of pesticides.
(c)    Carry out a preliminary review of the nature and scale of unwanted stocks of
pesticides. The Bank mission was informed that there are large quantities of
unwanted and outdated pesticides at various locations in the country. This
should be viewed as a matter of urgency as there is a strong likelihood that
several of the containers are corroded or damaged, and the contents are leaking
into the soil and contaminating the environment, getting into waterways, and
groundwater; it may also pose an immediate danger to people living in the
vicinity, to livestock, and other organisms.
(d)    Prepare recommendations on location, storage requirements, and other
recommendations for storage and/or sale of pesticides and methods of
enforcement. The location of stores and retail outlets and the manner of storage
is critical. This is particularly so in shops/cooperatives which may retail
pesticides, along with fertilizers, animal feeds and food, which may become
contaminated by pesticides unless adequate precautions are taken. The above-
listed information should be compiled and provided to the Pesticides
Commission to assist in the evaluation of pesticides for registration and/or re-
registration, and for strengthening the control of pesticides in Indonesia.
(e)    Measures should be proposed for the dissemination of information throughout
the community. This should include broadcasts by television and radio, press
releases, newsletters, brochures, and through the extension services.
Environmental Audit of Manufacturing and Formulation Fadlities
15.          The location, and effluent treatment of formulation and manufacturing plants are
also critical to ensure safety to the people living in the vicinity, to livestock, and to the
environment. This is further discussed in Annex 8.



- 46 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 1
NDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
PRojECr Com
(by expenditure)
%       X TotWl
atuniab biflion)             (USS million)         Foreign    Bawe
Local    Foreign    Total   Lcl    Foteip      Total     Exchange   Coas
Iveatmet Coats
A. Training
Travel Coas                     6.4       0.4       6.8     3.2       0.2       3.3         5         7
Materials and Supplies          9.9       1.7      11.6     4.9       0.8       S.8        15        13
Staff Coat                     15.9       0.1      16.0    7.9         -        7.9         1        17
Per Diems                     27.9        0.2      28.1    13.8       0.1      13.9         1        31
Maintenace                     -a.                 -a       _9                  L9         =          _
Subtotal Tining                63.9       2.4      66.3    31.6       1.2      32.8         4        73
S. Technical Asitance
1. FAO
rmadtional consulants        1.5        6.0       7.5     0.7      3.0        3.7       80          S
LoA- conultants              4.6         -        4.6     2.3       -         2.3        -          5
Suppott tff coda              U.                  3 Li    Id2                 .7                   _
Subtotal FAO                    9.5       6.0      15.3     4.7       3.0       7.7        39        17
2. Non-FAO
Inenational consultants      0.3        1.2       1.4    0.1       0.6        0.7       80         2
Local conWultant             2.4        0.1       2.5     1.2      0.1        1.2        5         3
Universities nd Resarch
Commisson                  A1           -        21     2.1                 2A         L 
Subtotal Technical Aaiance     12.3       7.3      19.5     6.1       3.6       9.7        37        21
C. Vehicles and Equipent
Vehicle                      0.2        0.1       0.3     0.1      0.1        0.2       35          -
Non-vehicle                  LO         0.5       1.      05           20     O S2
Subtotal Vehicb& Equipmst       1.2       0.7       1.9     0.6       0.3       0.9        35         2
D. Project Adminiatation Coos      3.6         -       3.6      1J                  1J         -         4
Total Baedne Costs                8L         1           4    40.1       f         45         11       Le
Physical Continsencies          1.3       0.5       2.3     0.9       0.3       1.1        22         3
Price Contingencis             12.4       0.8      13.2    6.1        0.4       6.5        6         14
TOtal PrjectCt                    ml         117    1069    u           l   u         L2.             LI7



- 47 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 2
PRoJECr COC   LA
(by components)
(Rupiah Billion)        (IJSS Milion)
Local   Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total
A. Human Resource Development
* Training of Pest Observers,
Ext. Workers & Farmers ,b       62.2    2.8   65.0    30.8    1.4   32.2
* Management Information Systems    2.2    -    2.2       1.1      -      1.1
Subtotal                      M4A4           67.2    ML2      LA
B. Supporting Studies and Field Investigations
* Occupational Health and
Habitat Studies                  1.6    0.2    1.8      0.8    0.1    0.9
* Field Laboratories               1.0     -      1.0     0.5      -      0.5
* Contracted-out Research
* Mapping Databases                0.6     -    0.6       0.3      -      0.3
Subtotal                         1    02L   3A        IA      adQ     Li
C. Policy Support                     1.2     -     1.2      0.6     -      0.6
D. Technical Assistance Ls           12.1    7.3   19.4      6.0    3.6    9.6
Base Costs                          80.9   103   91.2    40.1    5.1   45.2
Physical Contingencies             1.8    0.8    2.6      0.9    0.4    1.3
Price Contingencies               12.4    0.8   13.1      6.1    0.4    6.5
Total Project Costs                   X           au        EA 4           AM
La Inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of $3.3 million equivalent and reserve
procurement (of vehicles) of $0.2 million.
k Includes in-service training for extension workers and agro-ecosystems training.
Lr This is primarily for institutional capacity/human resource development, and partly for
supporting studies and policy support (see Annex 5 for details).



- 48 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 3
FINANCING PLAN la
(US$S million)
Project Expenditures              Bank          USAID        GOI          Total
Training
Materials & Supplies           7.0          1.6         -             8.6
Per Diems                     12.0          2.6         -            14.6
Travel                         3.1          2.6         -             3.8
Staff Costs                    -            -           8.3           8.3
Subtotal                    22.1          4.9        12.3          35.3
Equipment
Non-vehicles                   0.7          0.1         -             0.8
Vehicles                        -           -           0.2           0.2
Subtotal                     0.7          0.1         0.2           1.0
Technical Assistance
FAO-International              3.4          0.8         -             4.2
-National                   2.3           0.5         -            2.8
-Support Staff Costs         1.6          0.4         -            2.0
Non-FAQ-International          0.7          0.1         -             0.8
-National (including
local universities)        1.2          0.2         -             1.4
Subtotal                     9.2          2.0         -            11.2
Taxes and Duties                    -            -          3.3           3.3
Project Administration Costs        -            -          2.2           2.2
Total                          2i           72          Q             W
La Including contingencies of US$7.6 million.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINNG PROJECT
ES'IMAThD SCEmuLE OF DI
Disbursement
Amount per        Cumulative       Disbursement profile La
IBRD fiscal year        Semester       Amount         %              %
USS  million
1994
1                       1.5           1.5          5                 0
2                       3.5           5.0         16                 1
1995
1                       3.5           8.5         27                 6
2                       4.5           12.5        39                11
i199
1                       4.0          16.5         51                17
2                       3.5          20.0         62                26
1222
1                       3.0          23.0         72                34
2                       3.0          26.0         81                42
122k
1                       3.0          29.0         91                54
2                       3.0          32.0        100                69
1229
1                                                                   77
2                                                                   81
Project Closing Date: September 30, 1998.
La   Latest standard disbursement profile for Education/Training projects in Indonesia
(May 19, 1992).



-50 -                            ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINIG PROJECT
IHMPEMENAT10N SCEDLE, PROJEC  PERFOMANCE   DICATORS AND
SUPERVSON REQuIREME
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.          The importance of objective, critical, and thorough documentation of IPM project
activities for use by the international scientific and development communities cannot be
overemphasized. Due to the increasingly high profile of the project, detailed and accurate
information is being requested by a wide variety of donor, scientific, and developmental
organizations.
2.           The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Consultancy Team will contribute to this
by providing periodic inputs and oversight to the design, operation, and outputs of internal
information and management mechanisms as well as by carrying out more independent activities.
The M&E Team will accomplish this by making critical use of the data generated by the MIS
group within the project, and should provide feedback to the MIS group on which indicators and
monitoring procedures seem most robust and effective.
3.           The strategy of the M&E Team should include close and early involvement with
the IPM implementing team. The TOR for M&E would aim at the following objectives: (i) to
evaluate the spread of understanding of the IPM concept/approach among target farmer
population and among local (and higher levell) government officials; (ii) to track the expansion
of use of IPM approach and related technologies within the target farming population, and (iii)
to e aluate the impact of use of this technology both in terms of effective pest ma
management/production/financial  (cost  effectiveness)  gains  and  in  terms  of
environmental/ecological/health factors.) The objectives would then be translated into direct
indicators. For example, environmental impact would be evaluated indirectly through reduction
of pesticide usage but would also be evaluated directly through field sampling (e.g. water
quality, clinical records, surveys of non-target species. The M&E Team will undertake field
orientations and joint planning exercises early within the project timeframe in order to develop
detailed and relevant performance indicators with the IPM Team. These indicators, while
including a good selection of standard measurements, must be placed in the context of human
resource development, rather than mere agro-economics. Process documentation, including
participatory methods that involve farmers and fieldworkers in planning as well as carrying out
monitoring and evaluation exercises, will be of particular importance within the overall IPM
effort.
4.           Areas subject to monitoring and evaluation activities should include the quality
as well as the targets of IPM Training (included in the Attachment to this Annex) through
Farmer Field Schools which form the key element of the project essential for success. The
elements of IPM training covered by the M&E Team should include standard agronomic and
economic indicators like means and variances of yields, costs, pesticides used, and profits; but
should also cover farmers' group performance, strengths of local initiatives, innovations,
modifications/adaptations of technology, extent of incremental local government/community



- 51-                            ANNEX 4
support for IPM activities, effective demand on technical services, and other measures of the
IPM training process. Measures of farmers' conservation of biodiversity such as density of
natural enemy communities and the duration over which locally successful varieties are grown
will give new and valuable information for specialists and planners concerned with environment
as well as agriculture.
5.           On the operational and systemic level the M&E Team should make use of
information generated by the project to gauge the effectiveness of the management systems
developed by the project and the extent to which capabilities and approaches espoused by the
project are taken up and incorporated within local government, local agriculture service delivery
systems as well as within farm communities. The M&E Team should also focus on the longer-
term sustainabiity of the program, which depends on how well the program converges with GOI
policies and strategies for the organization, management and implementation of agriculture
training, extension and research.
6.           Due to the many innovative features of the project, both technical and
operational, the M&E Team is expected to comprise recognized international and national experts
with excellent technical background as well as detailed kInowledge of Indonesian social, political,
and historical contexts. The Team should include social science expertise as well as high levels
of ecological and agricultural competence.
7.           The timing of the M&E Team's activities should be keyed to milestones within
the project such as initial establishments of the MIS system, the Midterm Review, and the final
year review. Based upon ongoing interaction with project management, the Team should also
develop annual reports fur use by the GOI, the World Bank, FAO, and other agencies concerned
with the progress of the project.
Supervision Requirenents
8.           The Bank staff resources to supervise the project would be about 10 staff weeks
per year, except during the mid-term review of the project, when about 15-18 staff/consultancy
weeks would be required. The preferred arrangement would be for the Bank to coordinate
closely with BAPPENAS/MOA and the FAO and other consultancy teams. This would require
supervision by the resident mission staff. The first few supervision missions should include
headquarters staff who have been involved in the preparation and appraisal of the project.
9.           There would be one to two supervision missions each year. The timing would
depend on the critical stages of project implementation. These stages are likely to constitute:
(a) at the time of the annual work program (AWP) reviews and (b) mid-term review of the
project. The composition of the missions over the project period must include Institutional/
Human Resource Development Experts, Pesticides Regulations and Environmental Specialists,
Agriculturalists, Ecologists and Economists. The Bank and GOI's joint mid-term review mission
should be staffed by non-Bank, internationally-renowned experts in the field of IPM as well.



TRAINING  1MPLEMrAToN SCHEDULE AND TARGETS
Training Targets: PHP
June 94      June 95      June 96      June 97     June 98
New FTF Established                    1            0            0            0            0
Total FTFs Operain                     6            4            1            1            0
PHPs rined per cycle                 246          172           50           52            0
Cunmlative Total                  2            418          468          520          520
Trining Targets: Farmes
ouna 94 JnudS25                   June 96           June 97           Jo 9
FFSs organized anld conducted:   FFSS PbsIPartacrpantS      cipants FFS   Participians  FFSsParslcipant  FFSs  Partictiants
Dunn PHi  FFS per traning cycle  984   24,600    688   17,200      200    5,000      208    5,200        0        0
Training  I Cumulative tota      984   24,600   1672   41,800   1,872   46,800    2,080   52,000   2,080   52,000
PHP post-   Per year            2,964   74,100  4,302  107,550   4,962  124,050    5,427  135,675   5,562  139,050
training    Cunmulaive Total    2,964   74,100  7,266  181,650  12,228  305,700   17,655  441,375  23,217 480,425
Farmer   1 Per Year             1,334   33,345   1,936   48,398   2,233   55,823    2,442   61,054   2,503   62,573
organized I CuulZative Total    1,334   33,345  3,270   81,743   5,503  137,566    7,945  198,620  10,448 261,193                 L
TOT /a for)                      TOT  Participnts TOT  Participants TOT  Participants TOT  Participants TOT  Participants
Famersm
Per year             198    2,964    287    4,302      331    4,962      362    5,427      371    5,562
CumuIlative          198    2,964    485    7,266      816   12,228    1,178   17,655   1,549   23,217
Establishment of Subprovinial Program Offices, District Program Offices and New ARFs
June 94      June 95      June 96      June 97      une 98
SPOs         Per Year                 15            4           13            0            3
Established   Cumulative              15           19           32           32           35
DPOs         PerYear                 109           18            7           11            0
Established   Cumulative             109          127          134          145          145
Establishment of New ARFs                           I                         I
Total Opeational ARFs                  2            3            3            3            3
/a Training of Trainers.



1.   J |  U    1     !  |I I            IIl 
5S I4@W-E 



- 54 -                           ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PE$T MANAGEMENT TRINING PROJECT
lMIlN'rAAIoN SCaEDuL AD SuVSON PLAN
Note:    Reponsible Agenc  for coordinan  a1 avitia  (with assistance of FAO
consultats) is BAPPENAS. All funds flow through BAPPENAS to (i)
Consultants, (ii) District and sub-province program offices; (iii) universities
and AARD.
Prld9MlrLYf/ktbSuperviaon Schedule
Peb2. 93.GOIFAO Trust Fend    t           Annual Work Prga  for FY94 by Januay   Suprvision missiou  would geney
corn~I~ed. Shortliut for ICE for )JE      93.                                        be conducted at roughly six-mothi
oonshant nsbmitted to  ank tgpthsr with                                              periods but adjusted to coincide wit
TOR and lette of ivita    to b    o t o   A tion p am fo r                           main vents/outputs. About 10 staff
Peticie oonsultant identified (single               nl magement  pitioid  by    weeks/year and composition would vary
ouroe) Bank gives no obiection to hotlist,   Febmuy 93.                              accng to requirement but would
=    of irr  tin                                                                     include economi, ecologit s,
diret appointment of pesides consltant,    DIP budget p        for fst year annul     gricultus an  pecialist in
and approves GOI/FAO ASeemant Anl         work program  f le  by Fby           93.   environment, psicide, and tiing
GOI stff seconded.
Start of continuous program of staff  nd  First full suprvision mission for
Much~W*  0GO sands out AIder of          farmer taining from                       implementaion assitance June/July'93.
invitatn for MWE onsuta team proposa    July 93.
and letr of antment for Pesticides
Consultant.    r pprves JPM prqect                                                   lank MIS/information specialist to
end Nfrh 93.                              Establishment of MIS by FAO onsultat       review in detail activities prooed in
starting September 93 over the peiod of   establishing MIS in context oE
May 93. Bank/GOI  snatr of lees           appros. a year (Sept. 94).                information disemination and ME
Agrement.E                                                                           requiremenbt in Sept/Oct. '93.
Estbliunent of aoni res
JUIY 2.   FAO/G0I aps cn                  fail;tes/program  sating September 30
b4tant Team to omtinunt a                 over piod of  pr a  yr (SpL 94) nd
arngements for         et,/nw             commisioning of firt pr    h
poi,nw!tse by no lar tIhn Seteber 30,  from Sept. 30 and continued thre prqoject
i9.  P ec'ld    epetdb                  peiod undwsuervision of IPMl       h
.UIY/UDJt"W    W M    onsultnt appointed  Coaunission.
y  _.  .0,,_ .                                         Oplement  ation  oa  to strt
Task force for manw   pecideqt            by Nov. 93 and continued until  Wmid ter   Supervision misson Jan/Feb.94.
and implmentation of actwo program by     evaluation.
Annual work progm and DIP proposals       Supervision Jan/Feb. 95.
for FY 9S by an. 94.
Annual work program and DIP proposa
for FY 96 by Jan.95.
SupervisioMidterm Evaluation
Fiust ME Repot April 30'95.               Mison for joint review in July 9S.
Composition of the mission would be
Mitem evaluation  prt by                  decided on the bsi of patular
July 31'95. Decisions would be made on    r rment identified at the time but
implementation of further actios under    in all likelhood would include all
action program, such as d_regiatation of  disciplines indicated above and a
hazardous pesticides, on th exat mnode and   disbreent officer.
stp to be takn to transfer Th  ativities
to MOA, and on meaue for greae
effectiveneer of Pesiie Comision
Second WE Report Sopt 30,'6.
For the oontinuation of the proect Annual     lr Supeision miion roughly
Work Plns and DI prpl wouwld be                July/Au   nd Jan/Feb of
submitted Jan. 1 for ,Y9697 and 98, and   rmainig prqect yea.  at
annual prge  reports by Marb   31 eah              n       mision to coincide
year.                                     with releae of last ME rport
Traing continue according to targets.
Third nd Final WE Report
March 31, 1M.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 5
INDONESLA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAIING PROJECT
CONSULTANCY SUVICS 1/
On per_ mont)
FAO T.A.                      1993    1994    1995    1996        1997    Total
I                                   (IntenUalonal Experts)
Chief Technical Advisor           -        -        -        -        -        -
Team Leader                       9       12       12       12        3       48
Ecologist                         9       12       12        8        3       44
Field Epidemiologist              9       12        6        -        -       27
Epidemiologist                    -        6        4        -        -       10
Micro-organism Ecologist          3        3        3                 -        9
Traning Specialist                9       12       12        8        3       44
Curriculum Development            4        2        1        -        -        7
Management Information Specialist  9      12        6        8        -       35
Management Specialists            4        4        4        -        -       12
Cartographer                      9        9        -        -        -       18
GenderIssues Specialist           2        2        2                          6
Total (International)                                                        260
Approximate Cost (USS million)
1/  mm Cost siut eudhAs caidngciu



- 56 -                           ANNEX 5
FAO T.A.               1993      1994      1995      1996      1997     Total
II                                  (National Experts)
Senior National
Adviser                  9         12       12        12        12        57
Senior Technical Specialist   9     12        12        12       12        57
Ecologist/Farm Investigation  9     12        12        12       12        57
Training Specialists      18        24        24       24        24       114
Curriculum Development     9        12        12        6         6        45
Management Specialists    18        24        24       24        24       114
Information Systems Experts  9      12        12        12       12        57
Pesticides Information
Specialist                9        12        12        12         -        45
Public Health Specialist   9        12        12        12         -       45
Cartographer               9         9         -         -         -       18
Gender Issues Specialist   4         4         4        4         4        20
Total (National)                                                          629
Approximate costs (USS million)                                            0



- 57 -                           ANNEX 5
FAO T.A.                                                                  Total
El.
Administrative and Support Staff (approximate costs - USS million)        1.7
FAO - Total Base Costs (USS million)                                      6.7
FAO - Management Cost (USS million) La                                    1.4
Total FAO Technical Assistance (USS million)                              Li
Non-FAO T.A. (International Experts)         1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
I.  Pesticides Regulation/Environmental
Specialist Lb                            6      4      3      2     15
(Approximate cost - USS million)
HI. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
Team L
(Approximate cost - USS million)
Non-FAO T.A. (National Experts)
Contracts (approximate costs - USS million)
Universities and
Research Commission J                                               1.
Total Non-FAO T.A. (USS million)
/a Subject to negotiation with GOI.
al Direct appointment.
Lr International recruitment.



- 58 -                           ANNEX 6
INONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINNG PROJECT
Table 1: SummARY oF PRICES La AND AssuL PFIoNs FO  EcNONKMIC ANALYSIS La
1993   1994   1995   2000   2005
Rice Parity Price                          290    288    293    323    290
SoybeansParity Price                       632    643    643    601    629
Urea Parity Price                          404    415    415    456    428
Shadow Wage Rate (lava)                  1,750
Shadow Wage Rate (Off Java)              2,000
Shadow Wage Rate (Palawija)              1,500
Standard Conversion Factor                 0.9
Rice Yield Increaso with IPM             1.5%
Soybean Yield Increase with 1PM          3.0%
Domestic component of pesticides          85%
Foreign exchange component of pesticides  15%
Urea use, 1PM soybeans (1)                  60
Urea use, Non-IPM soybea  (kgha)            75
Opport. Cost of trainingJfrmer (ava)    21,000   12 days labor
Opport. Cost of training/farmer (Off Java)   24,000   12 days labor
Opport. Cost of training/farmer (Palawija)   18,500   12 days labor
La  In Rp per ks or per labor day, a appropriate.
1k   Crop/farm  budget ad derivations of economic prices are included in Annex 5,
Volume I-preparation report (undated, revised report).



-59 -                                        ANNEX 6
Table 2: CASH FLOw FoR ECONoMIc ANALYSIS
1993    1994    1995    1996            1998-1999     2000-2001      2001-2007
BeB
On-rm beefits             4,637   10,656  17,414  24,720  31.994      31,994        33,647         31,811
lWah bemfits                20        26      23       30      30         30            30            30
SubWtt Incrol
Besfa                    4,657   10,682  17,442  24,750  32,024    32,024           33,677        31,843
hmcrmea Coase
POcect coda              21,510   13,705  13,705  17,700  16,836           -             -              -
oppoq co~
of taining               2,860    3,744   4,013   4,387   4,377           -              -             -
-rgm  Gods
(after proect)               -         -       -       -        -     3,28           3,212         3,212
Subtotal Inremsa
coda                   24,370   22,449  22,718  22,067  21,13         3,282         3,212         3,282
lacresaia Net Bemfti
Total lacrmeata
Net Bmufita            -19 713    -77         i   Liii  ALW          amZ i
Ptogram      Total
Subot                              Subtot                 Opportnity    Code    Jcrmeal
InccnrenaL    On-fm       HeaLth   lncrementd    Proect      Cost of     (Aflar       Not
Periods       Benefits    1en&a        enfits DW   Coda        Coda      Traiin       Pri$ec)     Benefit
1       4,657       4,637         20      24,370      21,510       2,860           0      -19,713
2      10,682      10,656         26       22,449      18,706      3,744           0      -11,767
3      17,442      17,414         21      22,718       18,705      4,013           0       -5,276
4      24,750      24,720         30       22,087      17,700      4,387           0       2,663
S      32,024      31,994         30       21,213      16,536      4,377           0       10,311
6-7      32,024     31,994          30       3,282           0           0       3,282      21,742
8-9     33,677      33,647          30       3,282           0           0       3,212      30,395
10-15     31,841      31,818          30       3,282           0           0       3,212      21,S66
Switching Values at 10%
Appraisal                 Switching                Percentage
Stream                          Value                      Value                    Change
BTOT                          186,283.16               -76,901.56                  -141.28
B1                            186,068.88               -77,115.84                  -141.44
B2                                 214.28            -262,970.43              -122,821.05
NTOT                           87,728.24             -175,456.48                   -300.00
CTOT                           98,554.92              361,739.63                    267.04
C1                             71,609.74              334,794.45                    367.53
C2                             14,423.39              277,608.11                  1,824.71
C3                             12,521.79              275,706.50                  2,101.81
Total Benefits               4S0.294.56               1972 109L                         M8
Total Costs                    97.109.84
Net Present Value at 0CC  1U%  =  263,I84.7
Internal Rate of Return  32.7%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 29.7%.



- 60 -                           ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINIG PROJECT
MNUFAcuRE, FORm ATION, DruBTION AND STORAGE OF PESCIDES
1.           Manufacture and Formulation of Pestiddes.   At present, there are 21
formulation and 10 manufacturing pesticide plants in the country. Formulation plants have a
total capacity of 164,000 tons of pesticides per year, but in 1991 the production was only about
19 percent of the capacity. Manufacturing plants have an annual capacity of about 30,900 tons
of technical active ingredients, and in 1991 the production was only 2,570 tons which is
equivalent to about 12 percent of the capacity. Of the total formulated pesticides only 6 percent
was exported in 1991. But nearly 30 percent of the technical grade pesticides were exported
during the same year. Several pesticides which fall within the WHO Class Ia or lb hazard
classification are being manufactured and formulated.
2.           Manufacturing and Formulation Plants. All plants producing pesticides are
licensed by the Ministry of Industry which allows only those pesticides approved by the
Pesticides Commission to be produced. Formulation and manufacturing plants are expected to
be controlled with regard to safety and effluents. During application for investment the waste
treatment procedures have to be approved by the Investment Board. The plants are also required
to have a Safety Manual and a Safety Unit. Inspection is primarily confined to industrial hygiene
and safety, and testing of equipment in the plants. Effluent monitoring is carried out by the
laboratories in the provinces under the local government. Nevertheless, a recent study of the
plants in the country shows that many have poor working conditions and environmental
safeguards (Annex 7).
3.           Product Registration. According to Government Decree No. 7 of 1973, the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the control and regulation of all pesticide
products including those used in public health, forestry, household as well as agriculture. The
agency responsible for registering and licensing pesticides is the Pesticides Commission
(para. 1.24). Only registered pesticides may be manufactured, imported, distributed and used
in Indonesia.
4.           To register a product, an applicant must provide detailed information on
formulation, product composition, intended use and method of application, toxicology and
proposed packaging and labelling. Considerable reference is made to available international data
relating to products (e.g., from WHO or the US EPA), and the FAO code of conduct for
pesticides, to which Indonesia is a signatory. In considering a product for registration, the
primary criteria are basic health and environmental considerations. To date, about 43 brands
of pesticides have had their registration revoked, and some 28 active ingredients are banned, for
toxicity reasons. Three kinds of registrations are granted according to the data submitted by an
applicant. The first of these classified as 'Approval for Trial", is granted for new products for
a period of one year. 'Temporary Approval' is issued when supplementary data are required,
and this is given for one year too. The third category is known as "Permanent Approval' and



- 61-                             ANNEX 7
is given when all the necessary technical data are supplied. It is valid for five years, after which
it has to be renewed. To date, some 60 products have been awarded temporary approvals and
about 535 products have permanent approvals.
5.           Several problematic agricultural pesticides which are either acutely toxic, or their
use has been withdrawn due to environmental or health reasons in certain developed countries,
have been approved for use in Indonesia. The handling and application of such pesticides can
be hazardous particularly to farmers and farm workers. There is anecdotal evidence that farmers
frequently experience pesticide poisoning. In addition, based on WHO reports of pesticide
poisoning cases in developing countries, it can be extrapolated that there is a large number of
poisoning incidence in Indonesia which requires early attention. Some of these pesticides are
also known to have a broad spectrum of activity, the use of which will cause resurgence of pest
populations and is contradictory to the principles of IPM.
6.           Product Labelling and Pacdang. MOA Decree No. 429 of 1973 provides
clear instructions as to the type of information that has to be provided on the labels. However,
it does not have all the information as suggested in the FAO guidelines on the subject. The
pictograms also need to be changed to those that have been internationally agreed for use on
pesticide labels. Even in cases where labels satisfy and carry the required information, some
have been observed to be poorly printed, making them illegible. The same Decree also provides
broad requirements on the nature of packaging required, which can be considered as provisions
for development of detailed requirements on pesticide packages. It is clear from limited field
observations that many product suppliers ignore some or all of these regulations, putting
distributors and end-users at considerable risk.
7.           Product Distribution and Storage. MOA Decree No. 536 of 1985 provides
general guidelines on the inspection of manufacturing, distribution and storage facilities. It also
provides for monitoring of pest resistance to pesticides and misuse of products. Inspection is
expected to be carried out at the national, provincial and district level by appropriate level
inspection committees. In practice, it appears that little inspection work is undertaken. Pest
Observers do, however, include reports of product usage and of poisoning in their monthly
reports.
8.           Production Application. There are inadequate specific regulations concerning
product application other than dependence on the label instructions.
9.           Pestidde Residues.  Similarly, there appear to be no other regulations
concerning acceptable pesticide residue levels in foodstuffs other than those covered by
international agencies such as the Codex Alimentarius Commission.



- 62 -                           ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
A. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENr
1.         The project was classified as Category B for the Bank's environmental assessment
(EA) purposes and the Project Preparation document contained an environmental study report
(Working Paper 4, Volume II, Part II).
2.         The project is primarily a training project and does not include any activities which
would have significant adverse environmental impacts. In fact, the project was envisaged as
having significant beneficial effects and hence, the environmental study was in the form of a
comparative (i.e., 'with project' vs. 'without project") environmental risk assessment. The
assessment was undertaken at the sectoral level, as is provided for under the Bank's Operational
Diective No. 4.01, using available field data sets and relevant reports.
3.         The study concluded than an Integrated Pest Management ([PM) approach to
agricutural production in Indonesia offers the potential to significantly reduce environmental and
public health risks associated with the use of chemical pesticides by reducing and, perhaps in
some cases, completely eliminating the need for their use. EPM also provides the potential for
increased financial returns to farmers due to: (a) reduced input costs; and (b) increased output
yields. The rice culture yield increases are achieved both directly, due to documented increased
yields of grain and/or subsidiary products (e.g., fish) and indirectly, due to decreased incidence
of secondary pest outbreaks.
4.         The IPM benefits are considered to be highly sustainable because: (a) they are of
diect commercial benefit to the farmers; and (b) the training program is based on significant
farmer participation using "learning by doing" techniques.
5.         A significant part of the report was devoted to description and, where possible,
quantification of the risks and hazards associated with the pesticides supply and usage chain in
Indonesia and the associated inadequacies of the data bases, regulatory and administrative
procedures and public information processes. A series of wide-ranging recommendations were
made for improvement of the situation. These are discussed in Part C below.
B. CoMPLANCE WIrT  GOI EA NPROCEDWR
6.         The Government of Indonesia has established an EA process which is referred to
as AMDAL. The responsibility for EA of government initiated and implemented projects rests
primarily with the implementing agencies through a series of committees and working teams with
&Wil decision-making authority residing in an inter-departmental AMDAL Central Commission
(KOMPUS) within each agency.



- 63 -                           ANNEX 8
7.         The IPM project is being coordinated at the national level by the National Planning
and Coordination Board (BAPPENAS) which is not an implementing agency and hence does not
have AMDAL capability. However, the project relies heavily on the physical and staff resources
of the Ministry of Agriculture which does have AMDAL capability.
8.        It was agreed that the AMDAL responsibility should rest with the Ministry of
Agriculture although other relevant agencies, such as the Agency for Environmental Impact
Control (BAPEDAL) and the Ministry for Population and Environment (KLH) would also be
consulted.
9.         The AMDAL Technical Team within the Ministry of Agriculture was provided with
a copy of the environmental impact assessment report for the project. It subsequently advised
that the project does not require processing through the AMDAL system and hence no
supplementary reporting will be required. This is essentially because the project is primarily a
trianing project, and the assessment has already been undertaken at the sectoral level (para. 2).
C. ENvIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MomNoRING
10.       The EA report made wide-ranging recommendations regarding reform of pesticide
regulatory institutions and practices involving not only the Pesticides Commission (the principal
regulatory agency) but also other agencies such as BAPEDAL, BAPPENAS, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Department of Trade, the Directorate of Land Transportation and the Ministry
of Finance.
11.       Adoption of all the recommendations would have involved a significant
reorientation of the project away from IPM towards pesticides regulatory reform, which was
contrary to the basic intent. Further, it was considered that the information base on the industry
was insufficient to provide the necessary confidence that all of the recommendations would
necessarily be optimal or provide the desired outcomes.
12.       However, the general intent of the recommendations has been taken up in various
elements of the project design including the habitat study, health impact studies and the
'Pesticides Action Plan" (Annex 1). The key components of the Action Plan as they relate to
the recommendations of the Environmental Assessment are:
(a)  the review of the role, responsibilities and effectiveness of the Pesticides
Commission in relation to the full spectrum of pesticide management issues within
Indonesia and for recommendations to be made regarding possible improvements
in a response to a specific EA recommendation. The review and recommendations
are programmed for completion prior to the mid-term review at which time
discussion of further action would be appropriate. A number of such additional
actions are already recommended in the EA report. The recommended review may
provide a wider consensus on the need for and form of such actions;
(b)  the Pesticides Commission is urged to accelerate the existing process of review of
Class la and lb pesticides using existing budget allocations for this purpose. A
stronger role in this process for the Plant Protection Committee is also provided
for;



- 64 -                           ANNEX 8
(c)  the overriding need for improved information on all aspects of pesticide
production, importation, handling, storage and usage is acknowledged in the
substantial resources which are provided for the establishment of a "pesticides
information flow' within the Management Information System for the project.
This capability is envisaged as being an interim step. The scope of work for the
review in (a) above includes recommendations on the location of a permanent
institutional base for this capability; and
(d)  it is suggested that the GOI should ensure that environmental audits are carried out
on all pesticide manufacturing and formulation plants in Indonesia to assess
compliance with relevant pollution control and occupational health and safety
regulations. A specific program has not been specified since BAPEDAL, which
would be one of the prime agencies involved, is about to embark on a major staff
and institutional development process, the progress of which will have a significant
bearing on its capacity to undertake the recommended audits. A clearer assessment
may be possible during the proposed mid-term review of the project in 1995.



- 65 -                            ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEM1ENT TRA14NIG PROJECT
SELEcTm DocumEr Am DATA AVALAE iN PROJErCT FLS
1.    Project Preparation Report (in 3 separate volumes, Volume I-main text and annexes,
Volume U-Part I-Working Papers 1 and 2 and Part m-Working Papers 3 and 4),
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Investment Center, FAO, dated June 30, 1992;
2.    Updated/Revised Volume I-main text and annexes, undated beige cover report, or its
copy (in white cover).l/
3.    Indonesia-Agricultural Transformation: Challenges and Opportunities, World Bank,
Gray Cover Report (in Two Volumes), No. 10504-IND dated September 1, 1992.
4.    Cost Tables.
5.    'Pesticides and Rice Productivity", Roln and Pingali, IRRI.
6.    "Risk-s of dangerous substances exported to developing countries", Health Council of the
Netherlands.
7.    Mid-Term Review of the FAO Inter-Country Program for the Development and
Application of Integrated Pest Control in Rice in South and South East Asia,
November 1990.
8.    Getting Policies Right, Keeping Policies Right: Indonesia's IPM Policy, Production,
and Environment, and other mimeos, Peter E. Kenmore.
1/  Ecoomic analysis of the project (particularly the benefits), is based on this report.



- 66 -
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT TRAINIG PROJECT
Chart I: CENTRAL ORGANIZATION (1PM PRWECr)
Advisory Board
Oversee achievement
of project objectives
St-cring Comittee
Direct project
activities; approval
authority
Secretariat                                      Working Group
Supervise finance and                           Supervise technical aspects
administrative aspects                              of project operations;
of project operations;                           propose content end methods
mobilize inputs to                             to aid Steering Committee
implement Steering                                  decision-making
Committee decisions
Project Field           Project Field
Office                   Office
Technical support    Technical support
Kuasa Pimpro            euasa P Tmpro
Finance/admin           Finance/admin
support                support
|                      ll~~~~ational IPII Prog ram 
|                        ~~~~~~~(See Chart II)



- 67 -
Chart II: FIELD ORGANIZAnON (IPM PRWJECr)
With rT                                     Wthout  m
Province                                                   ProviniaaltgsiUnit
|Prograim Offi                 (Ku-as  Pfimro)|
Sub-Province              Logistics Unit
Mu s& Pl pro)                 Sub-Provincial
Program Office
Trailing             Support                        Support
Toam              Unit (YL2)                      Unit (FL2)
District
DLetrict Project
[  L2    1                          ~~~~~~~OffLce (YU)
Sub-District
& Village I                                                                   I
FaBrmer s



- 68 -
Chart mi: PLANNNG AND FuNDING PRoCEDuRES La
Central                                 6.  Approva                                        Central
(Approval)                 v             Steering Comittee                                (Approval)
v                                                *
Central       7.  Central Secretariat                5.  Appraisal of all field            Central
(Supporting)   makes direct paymnts to               plans by Working Group;              (Supporting)
Research Consortium;                  incorporation of proposals
transfers fund for approved           from Research Consortium, etc.
budgets to Kuasa Pimpros
Province       S. Kuasa Plmpro makes                           4a.  Compilation of plans    Province
direct payment of FTF costs;                   from SPPOs; consultation
transfers funds for approved                   vith Provincial Working
budgets to SPPOs and DPOs.                     Group.
v
v               4b.  Preparation of FlT
plans and budgets by
Sub-Province                           training teams                                     Sub-Province
v                                                    A
9a.  SPPO pays for                    3.  Consolidation of
v       special studies                       District plans by Sub-
as approved.                          Provincial Program Office;
v                                             incorporation of special
studies
v                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
District     9b.  DPOs make cash                            2. Preparation of District    District
advances for PIS ant                          plans and budgetsl
follow-up activities as                       consultation vith District
approved.                                     vorking Group.
Vr                                              *
v*
Sub-District  10.  Farmers/PHPs expend                       1. Participatory planning  Sub-District
cash advances.                                by farmers/PEPs/PPLs/
la To be finalized at negotiations.



IBRD 243A
AtIAND                                                             ,                                      (\.  0                           INDONESIA
S-t 1 SoCh-noS..                    X                           } 6 _, PHILIPPINES  t  INTEGRATED  PEST MANAGEMENT PROJECT-
BRUNEI,                                            -'              MWOR RICE GROWING AREAS IN INDONESIA
MALAYSIA| \/ .,b; 
PROJECT PRO0A NCES
'13                                                                                                                              - t9   9    (  t|>AYSIA   (   <\>  v  t  | 92%   PERCENT OF NATIONAL RICE PRODUCTION
t  _   0>b- ..SINGAPORE       tt;   9    t1                  17      @,                 - {,    Mib)            $               * 7PROJECT SECRETAAlATS
z   _          T A r E+A                     \    I             (   (              r         ,-  --_,PACIFIC OCEAN
7  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>
.w   ,                                                                                                                                  25f: '-   -@-a                                     A,9>
T110.0   S                                                                                                                                                                          I.IA \  Ul'a--'  I  _-   -\
D                                         SUATt 6TR       s/3\tXC
46 KAIN400NA                                                            SICEXIOG /n -w                                                 PA     AHL 
7 0040,11                                                                         - IU                                                                                                       2
911 .00ul
10 3M19 
4 Kb.1044wl &,MT00.
2~ 14149tNAT04O9 .0N00S040, 2h.O0S                                                                                                                          Ih/ -,-- d
2  N 50.GA0100A1                                                                                                24 019001490 Cd .. h.b-t...  .- -/h
220Nu-m0004l014 804010                                                                                      0000Ti.,,,d ogbl   'h.,a  by f bh W,,ld Sco.-1, G-,                               0..-
10           a      a   ,                   ~~~~~~~~~INDIAN OCEAN                                                        Zd f.-,i4yo.y.o.ac  1,1~p4C~
~ (-~--,_ASTRALIA
011010102



