Page  1
                                                                CONFORMED COPY
                                                          LOAN NUMBER 3586 IND
                 (Integrated Pest Management Training Project)
                                    between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated May 26, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3586 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has contracted from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
between the Borrower and USAID (the Agricultural and Rural Sector
Support Program, as amended on September 30, 1992, hereinafter the
"USAID Agreement");
      (C)   the Bank and USAID intend to enter into an agreement
making arrangements for the Bank to process applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally
by the Bank and USAID and regulating certain other matters of common
interest in connection with such financing; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meaning:
      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
      (b)   "Kabupaten" means an administrative sub-division of a
province; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty two million dollars ($32,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in
Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative, educational, environmental, and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
Page  5
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the USAID Grant shall have
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
USAID Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
Page  6
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:           Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Equipment                    700,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost),
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)   Training,                 18,600,000      70%
      including
      materials,
      supplies, travel
      and per diem
(3)   Consultants'               7,700,000      100%
      services
(4)   Unallocated                5,000,000
Page  7
      TOTAL                     32,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to stabilize agricultural,
particularly paddy, production and promote environmentally sound
crop production systems through a program of integrated pest
management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Human Resources Development
1.    Training of about 520 pest observers in principles and
practice of integrated pest management and experience-based learning
methods designed for dissemination to farmers, including provision
of training materials and supplies, and establishment of a new field
training facility on the island of Sumatra.
2.    Short-term training of about 1,100 field extension workers in
participatory training methods and basic technical skills in
integrated pest management, including provision of training
materials and supplies.
3.    Long-term training of field extension workers attending the
in-service training at the Bogor, Malang and Yogyakarta Academies of
Agricultural Extension in integrated pest management, or such other
Academies as the Bank shall agree.
4.    Training of about 630,000 farmers in integrated pest
management, training of about 25,000 of such farmers as integrated
pest management farmer instructors, and, thereafter, training by
such farmer instructors of about 250,000 farmers in integrated pest
management, including provision of training materials and supplies.
5.    Training of about 280 staff in agro-ecosystems analysis,
including map reading skills and provision of training materials and
supplies.
6.    Strengthening the management information system of the
Borrower's integrated pest management program and strengthening the
promotion activities for dissemination of information on integrated
pest management.
Part B: Supporting Studies and Field Investigations
1.    Carrying out of an occupational health study to determine the
incidence and seriousness of poisoning resulting from the use of
pesticides in rice growing areas in Java, including provision of
related equipment and technical assistance.
2.    Carrying out of a habitat study on pest and natural enemy
populations of pests and interactions and the effect of the use of
Page  8
insecticides in different agro-ecological systems, including
provision of related equipment, laboratory and office supplies, and
technical assistance.
3.    Establishment of action research facilities in areas where
particular pest problems exist for rapid development of practical
control methods, including provision of related facilities and
equipment.
4.    Carrying out of research activities at national research
institutes and universities to investigate high-priority topics
related to integrated pest management.
5.    Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities,
including an assessment of the quality of training in integrated
pest management and the achievement of agreed training program
targets, at farmers field schools, and provision of technical
assistance.
Part C: Strengthening Regulatory and
        Environmental Management of Pesticides
1.    Strengthening of the Pesticides Commission within the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, including review of its role and
function, including provision of technical assistance.
2.    Review of problematic pesticides before expiry of their
registration, and review of the phase-out of the import, manufacture
and use of hazardous pesticides, including provision of technical
assistance.
3.    Collation and dissemination of information for pesticide
management, including provision of technical assistance.
4.   Carrying out environmental audits of pesticide manufacturing
and formulation plants relating to compliance with environmental and
occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including
provision of technical assistance.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1998                                 600,000
February 1, 1999                               620,000
August 1, 1999                                 645,000
February 1, 2000                               665,000
August 1, 2000                                 690,000
February 1, 2001                               720,000
August 1, 2001                                 745,000
February 1, 2002                               770,000
August 1, 2002                                 800,000
February 1, 2003                               830,000
August 1, 2003                                 860,000
February 1, 2004                               895,000
August 1, 2004                                 925,000
February 1, 2005                               960,000
August 1, 2005                                 995,000
February 1, 2006                             1,035,000
August 1, 2006                               1,070,000
February 1, 2007                             1,110,000
August 1, 2007                               1,155,000
February 1, 2008                             1,195,000
August 1, 2008                               1,240,000
Page  9
February 1, 2009                             1,285,000
August 1, 2009                               1,335,000
February 1, 2010                             1,385,000
August 1, 2010                               1,435,000
February 1, 2011                             1,490,000
August 1, 2011                               1,545,000
February 1, 2012                             1,600,000
August 1, 2012                               1,660,000
February 1, 2013                             1,740,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's price  will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
Page  10
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Contracts for training materials and supplies may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a) With respect to each contract for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, not later than December 31, 1993,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  11
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the senior pest
observers (field leaders FL1 at the provincial level and field
leaders FL2 at the Kabupaten level) remain assigned full-time to the
carrying out of the Project.
2.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the job description of
pest observers and field extension workers continues to include in
their regular surveillance duties the activities related to
integrated pest management.
3.     In carrying out the research activities under Part B.4 of the
Project, the Borrower shall annually monitor and evaluate the
quality and effectiveness of such research.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in
accordance with the action plan agreed with the Bank.
5.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than September 30, 1993, expand the membership of the
Integrated Pest Management Working Group to include members of all
agencies implementing the action plan referred to in paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
6.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by January 1, in each year, commencing January 1, 1994,
furnish to the Bank for review and comments the draft provincial and
local annual work programs for Project activities to be implemented
starting each April 1; and
      (b)   by June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 1994,
furnish to the Bank for review and comments the provincial and local
annual progress reports on implementation of the agreed annual work
program, referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, for the preceding
fiscal year.
7.   The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1995, carry out a
mid-term review of the Project, in consultation with the Bank, and,
thereafter, promptly carry out the recommendations agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
8.    In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall acquire the
vehicles required for Project implementation in accordance with a
schedule and timetable acceptable to the Bank.
9.    The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1993, establish
an accounting system by which provincial sub-project managers (kuasa
pimpinan proyek) are authorized to establish Government accounts
from which advances shall be made, based on approved budgets, to
field leaders in Kabupaten Integrated Pest Management Program
Offices for Project activities in the area covered by such Kabupaten
Office.
                            SCHEDULE 6
Page  12
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
Page  13
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
