Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7135-CO
TECHNICAL ANNEX
COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 28, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1997)
Currency Unit = Pesos ($)
US$1.00 = $1,075
$ 1.00 = US$0.001
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANCOLDEX          -     Export-Import Bank of Colombia
BR                 -     Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
CAS                -     Country Assistance Strategy
CONPES             -     National Council for Economic and Social Policy
DANCOOP            -     National Department of Cooperatives
DPPC               -     Promotion of Competition Vicepresidency
DNP                -     Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
FINDETER           -     Financial Corporation for Territorial Development
GDP                -     Gross Domestic Product
GOC                -     Government of Colombia
ICETEX             -     Institute for Financing of Higher Education
ICB                -     International Competitive Bidding
ICR                -     Implementation Completion Report
IFI                -     Institute for Industrial Development
ISS                -     Instituto de Seguros Sociales (Social Security Institute)
MHCP               -     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
PCD                -     Public Credit Directorate, Ministry of Finance
PCU                -     Project Coordination Unit
SES                -     Superintendency of Cooperatives (to be created)
SB                 -     Superintendencia Bancaria (Banking Superintendency)
SIC                -     Superintendency of Industry and Commerce
SOE                -     Statement of Expenditures
SV                 -     Superintendency of Securities
TA                 -     Technical Assistance
TES                -     Titulos de Tesoreria (Treasury Securities)
UIIF               -     Unidad de Informaci6n e Inteligencia Financiera (Financial
Intelligence and Information Unit)
VT                 -     Viceministerio Tecnico (Technical Viceministry of Finance)
Vice President S. J. Burki
Director    P. Isenman
Division Chief K. Challa
Task Manager A. Jaime



COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. Background
1.    Since the late eighties, Colombia has embarked upon a program of economic
reforms aimed at improving resource allocation by liberalizing domestic markets and
opening the economy to competition and opportunities in the international markets. To
complement the reforms in the trade, industrial and agricultural sectors, the Government
has also undertaken an extensive reshaping of the financial sector.
2.    Most of the earlier initiatives in the financial sector focused on the financial
intermediation system, which has traditionally been the major source of financing and
where the most urgent issues were concentrated due to the banking crisis of the mid
eighties and the subsequent nationalization of many financial institutions. These initiatives
included the liberalization of interest rates, phasing out of credit subsidies and forced
investments, reduction of segmentation in the financial system, reduction in the role of
public financial institutions, an increase in the autonomy of the Central Bank and
improvements in banking supervision. As a result of these sustained efforts, the banking
sector recovered from the crisis of the eighties and has since consolidated its strength and
stability of its operation under a much improved supervision regime.
3.    Despite these achievements in the financial intermediation sector, capital markets
in Colombia have remained small and rudimentary as companies have traditionally
preferred to use the financial intermediation sector. Though Colombia has three stock
exchanges - in Bogota, Medellin and Cali - there is a very limited supply of securities due
to several policy and market inefficiencies. The shallowness of capital markets
development in Colombia has deprived domestic industry of efficient financial instruments
and has also contributed to higher interest rate spreads in the banking sector because of
limited competition from the capital markets.
4.    The Government of Colombia appreciates the importance of well functioning
capital markets, and in 1995 appointed a high level commission to make recommendations
on measures to develop capital markets. The recommendations of this Commission',
which were based on analytical work carried out by capital markets specialists with the
assistance of the World Bank, have been a major input in guiding Government policy for
capital markets development. This project is designed to support the implementation of
these initiatives.
The final report of the Mision de Estudios del Mercado de Capitales was presented in July 1996. The
work of this Commission was supported by a PHRD project preparation grant.



2
II. Financial Markets in Colombia
5.    The Colombian financial system comprises of a large number of institutions, with
the primary actors being - 32 commercial banks that represent 51.2% of the assets of the
financial system, 25 Development Finance Corporations (21 private and 4 public)
providing credit for productive enterprises representing 13% of the assets of the financial
system, 75 Commercial Finance Companies for trade and consumer credit and leasing
with 10.6% of the assets of the financial system, 9 Savings and Loans Corporations which
are specialized mortgage lending institutions and represent 22.1% of the assets of the
financial system. In addition, there are also credit cooperatives, deposit warehouses,
fiduciary companies and investment, mutual and pension funds systems. Since 1994,
pension funds have grown and represent a much larger percentage of the financial system.
6.    Traditionally, financial intermediation has been the primary form of financing in the
Colombian markets. Substantive policy reform and strengthened banking supervision after
the banking crisis of the mid 1980s helped the banking sector regain its strength and
stability. A World Bank study undertaken in the early nineties2 identified the main
outstanding issue in this sector to be ones of efficiency and competitiveness with
continued high financial margins and large variances in interest rates. The main sources of
these problems were identified to be a combination of high quasi-fiscal burden of reserve
requirements, mandated investments and a low level of competition in the markets. Since
this study was undertaken, Government has taken several steps to reduce significantly the
reserve requirements and the pattern of mandated investments. It has also taken steps to
reduce the level of public sector intervention in the banking sector by privatizing banks
and other financial institutions and by taking the decision to restructure public sector
financial institutions, such as the Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia
(BANCOLDEX) , Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER) and the Instituto
de Fomento Industrial (IFI), into second tier banks providing rediscount facilities to first
tier private sector institutions. The restructuring of the latter two is being supported
through World Bank projects3. In addition, the Government has also undertaken steps to
improve the regulatory framework, including competition policy, and supervision capacity
within the banking sector. These are discussed further below.
Financial Markets4
7.    Financial markets in Colombia in contrast, remain small, highly concentrated and
illiquid - characteristics not dissimilar to other emerging economies. The capital market
in Colombia has languished since the sixties, even though Colombia had the benefit of
relatively low and stable inflation rates compared to other countries in Latin America.
2Colombia: Financial Sector Reform, Green cover report, World Bank, 1992.
3 The restructuring of FINDETER is being supported through Loan 3336-CO (Municipal Development
Project) and is being undertaken jointly with the IDB. The restructuring of IFI is being supported
through Loan 3449-CO (IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project).
4 Comprehensive analysis of the financial sector and the financial markets are available in the two
reports mentioned in footnotes 1 and 2. These reports are available in the project files.



3
Since the early nineties, many financial market indicators have shown an upturn, except for
a decline in 1995.
*  Size of the Market:  Capital markets in Colombia have been historically small.
Over 1986-1993, average market capitalization on the Colombian markets was
only 7% of GDP, comparable to Argentina, Indonesia and Nigeria, but well below
the new industrialized countries like Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Chile
with similar ratios greater than 100%. Since the early nineties, however, the
markets have shown a substantial increase due to an increase in prices and number
of listed companies. In 1996, the stock market capitalization had recovered to
grow to US$ 15.35 billion or nearly 21% of GDP. The number of listed
companies, which had languished during the eighties and the early nineties, also
began to increase in 1993 and reached 440 in 1996. Nevertheless, the annual
increase in the number of listed companies of 5.6% per annum over 1989-94 was
very low compared to other emerging economies such as Indonesia and Turkey
(about 35%) 5.
*  Concentration: Concentration indices for the Colombian stock market, measured
as the share of the ten largest stock in market capitalization, have been among the
highest in the world. During 1986-1993, the ten largest stock represented 74%
of the market capitalization, while the value of the same index in the US and Japan
was between 14-19%. A high degree of concentration, however, is typical of
most small and emerging markets. Lately, there are encouraging signs that in
Colombia, as well, market concentration numbers have begun to decline. In 1994,
the value of this index was 61.2%. However, this level is still high compared to
other emerging markets in the region, all of which share similar characteristic -
Argentina (47.5%), Chile (39.9%), Mexico (36.5%). The market transaction
concentration index as measured by the transactions of the 10 principal companies
to total transactions however remained between 65% and 80% in each of the three
Colombian stock markets (Misi6n report).
*  Liquidity: Transactions as a percentage of the GDP, have increased significantly in
the last five years, with stock transactions rising by 47%. Nevertheless, at 5.19%
of GDP for total securities transactions and 2.1% of the GDP for equity
transactions, the Colombian capital market remains highly illiquid. In contrast,
equity transactions as a percentage of the GDP are close to 45% in Japan,
Malaysia and Singapore (Misi6n report). Another indicator of market liquidity is
the turnover ratio or total value traded divided by average market capitalization for
the year. In Colombia, this was a low 7%, comparing poorly to other countries in
the region like Peru (39%), Mexico (33%), Jamaica (21%), Chile (15%), and
Venezuela (9.8%) 6. (IFC)
Factors Constraining Financial Markets in Colombia
5  Source: Report of Misi6n de Estudios del Mercado de Capitales
6  Source: IFC - Emerging Markets Database



4
8.    The key feature constraining the growth of financial markets in Colombia has been
a paucity of supply of securities, particularly from companies in the real sector. Demand
for securities, on the other hand has been robust and rising exponentially, as the
Government privatized large parts of the pension and the severance payments systems in
the early nineties unleashing a large potential demand for securities.
9.    The Supply of Securities: Constraining Factors Some of the factors
constraining the supply of securities have been macroeconomic. A decline in savings and
high interest rates in the seventies and the eighties led to a general decline in investment
expenditures and reduced the need for the companies to go to the financial markets. In
addition, the former trade and market restriction policies provided considerable protection
to domestic companies, again reducing their need for investments to modernize or expand.
10.   Other factors, however, relate specifically to policy and market inefficiencies that
have led companies to favor financing through commercial banks and other financial
intermediation agencies over the capital markets. A large number of public sector
institutions had offered directed credit at rates substantially lower than those available in
the capital markets. This bias was compounded by a tax policy regime that provided a
more favorable tax treatment to debt over equity. Regulatory provisions such as very high
norms about minimum quorums required for corporate decisions have reduced the
incentive of companies to make public offerings of shares as they have feared deadlock in
decision making. Another factor constraining underwriting activities and liquidity in the
secondary market has been the underdevelopment of market infrastructure, such as
adequate intermediation services. This is attributable, inter alia, to weak capitalization of
intermediaries, lack of regulatory framework for own account operations and market
making activities and, in the past, fixed bands for commissions on transactions. Nor have
there been adequate market services such as custody, clearing and settlement systems,
rating of securities, inter-connection and cross listing across the exchanges, all of which
translate into increased transaction costs.
11.   The practice of mandated high reserve requirements and forced placement of
government securities has also hindered the development of a market for public securities.
In other countries, treasury bonds and bonds issued by other government agencies such as
municipal bonds have been an important instrument for increasing the size, term and
liquidity of domestic capital markets and establishing a yield curve for reference in other
transactions. As these are relatively secure investments, their introduction and well
functioning securities markets is likely to attract new players initially into the market for
public securities and progressively into private securities.
12.   Another set of reasons that has constrained the growth of capital markets has been
the lack of a full regulatory framework to meet the needs of a changing financial market
and the introduction of new and specialized instruments. In 1991, the Government
established a Superintendency of Securities (SV) which has rapidly moved to develop its
institutional capacity and to promote capital markets development. Nevertheless, its
institutional capacity and the regulatory framework for the securities markets is still under
development. Recently, securitization, venture capital funds, new instruments to finance



5
housing leasing schemes such as have been introduced in Chile, are some examples that
have been specifically cited where the absence of a regulatory framework has been
constraining market development.
13.   Actions Taken By The Government To Promote Financial Markets. The
overall policy thrust of the Government harbors well for the growth and development of
the capital markets in Colombia. Recent Government initiatives in opening up the
economy to competition, privatizing the financial intermediation sector, reducing
restrictions on foreign participation in the financial market and the establishment of
privately managed severance payments and pension funds are all factors that will
contribute to the long term development of the financial markets in Colombia. In
addition, the Government's policy and increasing momentum of private investments in
large infrastructure projects will also provide a positive impetus to the growth in the size
and deconcentration of the markets.
14.   The Government has also undertaken a policy direction in the financial sector to
significantly reduce the level of government intervention and state participation by
virtually eliminating mandated investments, reducing reserve requirements to minimal
levels and by reducing the total participation of the public sector in the financial sector
from 50% of all assets in early 90s to less than 22% by 1995. Even within the remaining
public sector financial intermediaries, the Government is restructuring agencies such as
BANCOLDEX, IFI and FINDETER into rediscounting second tier banks that would
participate in the markets only through first tier private sector institutions.
15.  In addition, the Government has already undertaken several measures to address
specific issues that have constrained capital markets development. These include reforms
in the tax code to eliminate double taxation of dividends, elimination of property taxation
of stock holdings, elimination of tax deductibility of inflation component of interest
payments, and other biases against participation in the capital markets, simplification of
norms and rules regarding participation in the financial markets through subsidiary
companies, provision of tax exemptions to certain funds investing in securities, removal of
floors and ceilings on commission charged by brokers, reform of the commercial code to
introduce preferential shares without voting requirements, reduction of voting quorum for
certain types of decision making and upgrading of information disclosure requirements.
Some of the specific actions taken by the Government are detailed in Box 1.



Box 1: Recent Measures Taken by the Govemment for Financial Markets DeveloDment
Policy Area                        Effects on Financial Market                                    Effects on the Stock Markets
Tax Policy             Gradual elimination of the deductibility of the inflationary component of  Gradual leveling of the income tax applicable to publicly traded
interest payments.                                            companies and the elimination of double taxation of dividends.
Elimination of property tax for stock ownership. The income obtained
from capital gains is not imposed with an income tax or a windfall gain
tax. Provision of income tax exemption and other complementary
exemptions to investment funds, severance payment funds, pension
funds and securities funds. (Decree 1321 of 1989 and Law 49 of 1990).
Financial legislation  Law 45 of 1990 sought to promote the transition from a scheme of  Authorization for financial intermediaries to undertake activities
specialized banks to one of banks with subsidiaries with the objective of  different from banking tuough their subsidiaries, including
improving the efficiency of the system. It also fixed the minimum  intermediation of securities, thus increasing the types of entities that can
capital requirements for the formation of different types of financial  participate in the broker-dealer business. Also, expansion of the scope  O
entities, facilitated the transformation across different types of  of activities for brokerage finns. (Law 45 of 1990).
intermediaries, eliminated restrictions on foreign investment in banks
and opened the door for foreign investment in acquiring up to 100% of
stock capital of national financial entities.
Prudential Regulation  Establishment of prudential nonus for capital adequacy based on risk-    The Financial Reform included certain monetary sanctions and civil
weighted assets. Required entities to get their portfolio classified every  actions against the use of privileged information. From 1991,
six months according to five categories. Imposition of limits on  regulations were introduced for the participation of rating agencies in
individual credit exposure and establishment of new nonns for valuing   the financial market.
investments with market pricing (marked to market).
Introduction of new    Based on the opportunities opened by the new legislation, many  The introduction of new agents in the market, in particular the creation
agents                 financial intermediaries undertook investments in related financial  of severance payment funds, pension funds and foreign investment funds
businesses that provide complementary financial services, such as  has contributed to strengthening the demand for securities in the capital
fiduciary (trst) societies, pension and severance payment funds, and  market.
brokerage firms.
Creation of new                                                                      Introduction of preferential shares (without voting rights) to address the



instriments                                                                           concerns of major shareholders about dilution of corporate control
Creation of a regulatory framework for securitization of assets.
Design of a structure for the operation of a second-tier market.
Privatization          Privatization of financial intermediaries to reduce public participation in  A large part of the privatizations were undertaken through auctions and
the financial sector from 50% of the assets of the sector at the beginning  realized USS 660 million leading to an increase in the number of stock
of the nineties to 22% by 1995.                               transactions. More privatizations and the new policy of private
participation in infrastructure projects will contribute to the continued
growth in the size, liquidity and deconcentration of the stock markets.
Reform of the                                                                         With regard to information disclosure requirements, the existing biases
Commercial Code                                                                       against publicly listed companies were elininated.
Quorum requirements for decision making were revised to require only
a simple majority of shareholders
Regarding distribution of profits, only 51% majority needed if more than
50% of the profits are to be distributed. For the decision to distribute
less than 50% of the profits, a higher majority of 78% of votes is
required. (Law 222 of 'I 995).
Source: Final Report of the Commission for the Development of Capital Markets, 1996.



8
16.   With regard to the development of the market for public securities, Law 31 of
1992 mandates that as of 1999, the Central Bank will fully substitute the bonds issued for
less than one year with treasury bonds issued by the Government - Tiuulos de Tesoreria
(TES). This would create a single sovereign instrument, reducing the segmentation in the
market for public securities and eliminating the inefficient competition between these two
sovereign instruments. The development of a market in public securities is also being
aided by the elimination in the mandated placements of such bonds with official agencies.
The recent decentralization initiative that has transferred responsibility for infrastructure
and social sectors to departments and municipalities also represents an opportunity for
deepening of capital markets through bonds issued by these entities. Some sub-sovereign
entities such as the city of Bogota and the Department of Guajira have already begun the
process of issuing bonds on their own account, on both the international and (primarily)
on the domestic market.
17.   The Demand for Securities- Pension Reform  Though the supply of securities
has lagged in the Colombian markets, demand for securities has increased substantially in
the past decade with the approval of foreign investment funds, the repatriation of capital
by Colombian nationals and the liberalization of the insurance sector. The demand for
securities received another significant boost with the creation of a system of privately
managed severance payment funds (Cesantiafondos) and the pension reform of 1993. In
1992, a system of privately managed severance funds was established and in 1993,
Congress passed a law that has established the framework for privately managed,
compulsory defined-contribution pension funds.
18.   The main thrust of the pension reform of 1993 is a change from the pay-as-you-go
system to a filly funded one and the introduction of competitive pressures with the co-
existence of private and public sector pension funds actively managing the savings of their
members. Privately managed pension funds were created in parallel with the existing
public sector agency Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguro Social (1SS)) with
individuals having a choice of which institution is to manage their pension fund account.
For all affiliates of the old pension system, their former pension management entity
("caja") is obliged by law to transfer the equivalent of its accrued pension liabilities to their
affiliates, earned during their past years of service, to the new pension fund chosen by
them. Subsequent pension contributions bv individuals go directly into their newly
chosen pension funds.
19.   As these reforms deepen, it is estimated that the total resources of the institutional
investors such as pension funds, severance payments funds, insurance companies and
mutual funds, will increase from 3.7% of GDP in 1994 to between 9-12% of GDP by the
year 2000 (as estimated by the Commission on Capital Markets). The amounts they invest
in the capital markets are also expected to multiply three to four times in the same time
period, significantly increasing the demand for securities - particularly those with longer
maturities. Such a positive effect from private pension funds on the equity market was
also experienced in Chile, where stock market capitalization has reached over 100% of
GDP, up from 24% a decade ago. In addition, pension fund reform has allowed Chile to



9
be the only country in Latin America to have today a significant long term corporate bond
market.
20.   Competition Policy. It is widely recognized that the heritage of tariff protection,
licensing, foreign investment controls, and other government policies coupled with the
relative small size of the domestic market led to high levels of industry concentration in
Colombia. The lack of effective domestic and import competition has traditionally enabled
Colombian firms to engage in oligopolistic behavior. Some firms have been able to charge
high prices and earn high profits while simultaneously being high cost and inefficient
producers. Potential efficiencies and economies of scale have not been adequately
exploited. In addition to high levels of industry concentration, the Colombian economy is
also characterized by high levels of ownership concentration and conglomeration among
financial and industrial enterprises.
21.   Although competition policy in Colombia has existed dejure since 1959 with the
passage of Law 155, that has not been the case in practice, as until very recently antitrust
regulation was an almost completely nonexistent function. Law 155 of 1959 determined
that the Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (SIC) was to be in charge of
enforcing antitrust, price controls, intellectual property rights and quality control
legislation and regulations. While the purpose of the law was to promote competition,
antitrust legislation was never applied nor tested. This is attributed to the extent of
government regulation of industry, lack of political will, and inadequacy of the regulatory
and institutional structure aimed at maintaining and encouraging competition. Thus, there
is no precedent on how should antitrust cases be analyzed, prosecuted and litigated.
There are no standards of proof nor clear articulated defenses.
22.   The opening of the economy and the initiation of an overall deregulatory process
(apertura) in the 1990s, provided the impetus to starting correcting this vacuum. As a
result of it, the Government issued Decree 2153 (with the status of Decree/Law),
representing a turnaround in policy direction. The Decree seeks to safeguard and promote
competition with the primary objectives of improving economic efficiency and consumer
welfare. Decree 2153 is the legal document underpinning the new antitrust framework of
Colombia. It provides SIC with a new legal mandate, a new organization and new
functions"1, and also provides some guidance on what competition policy should be. The
Decree gives the mandate to SIC about all aspects of antitrust enforcement, including
carrying on investigations, arranging cease and desist agreements concerning particular
practices, blocking mergers, prosecuting parties on competition violations, and imposing
sanctions and fines. These powers are sufficient to have deterrent and punitive impacts.
23.   The Decree also establishes the SIC as a "technical agency" within the Colombian
public service system, and thus autonomous from an administrative, financial and
budgetary point of view. This is of great importance in avoiding political interference in
the operation of antitrust enforcement; it is also useful for SIC in being able to attract high
7  As part of this restructuring, the Delegatura para la Promocion de la Competencia (DPPC) has been
created to be in charge of implementing competition policies.



10
quality staff as the agency can now have a salary scale above the general civil service pay
levels.
Remaining Agenda for Financial Markets Development
24.   Though much progress has been made, and is reflected in the improvements in the
indicators of market growth and performance in recent years, considerable challenges
remain before Colombia can aspire to truly modem and efficient financial markets. In
particular, the remaining agenda includes:
*  Further reform in the legal and regulatory framework to reduce
impediments to the supply ofpublic and private securities The unfinished
agenda includes continued changes in the Commercial Code to reduce the
disincentives for companies to go public, changes in the valuation system in
the tax code to remove biases against long term securities, harmonization of
the different types of securities offered in the market, upgrading and
clarification of information disclosure requirements for companies and market
intermediaries, improvements in interconnection and cross listing across stock
exchanges within and outside the country, as well as improvements in the
accounting and auditing standards. Bonds issued by sub-sovereign entities
also present an opportunity for the development of a new segment of the
domestic capital markets. The development of a domestic market segment for
this purpose still requires agreement on accounting standards for these sub-
sovereign entities and the rationalization of the tax code to take these
investments properly into account.
*  Development of market infrastructurefor public andprivate securities to
reduce transaction costs in the placement and trading of securities in the
markets. These include actions to promote the emergence of specialized
market makers, actions to promote an increase in the number and technical
capacity of brokerage services, as well as improvements in the clearing,
settlement and custody systems. The broadening and deepening of the
markets for public sector securities also requires the creation of an
infrastructure to stimulate both the primary and the secondary markets
through the creation of market makers and underwriters ("primary dealers")
who can assume own positions as well as promote a secondary market
through the provision of daily quotations.
*  Introduction of new, state of the art instruments to meet new business needs
such as those already being used in other developed and developing
economies - e.g.securitization, venture capital funds, the use of derivatives,
etc. In addition, the Government has also expressed an interest in developing
financial instruments in the private markets for the introduction of new
instruments to mobilize private participation in housing finance and
educational finance. Much work needs to be done to develop the legal and
regulatory framework governing the introduction of these instruments, the



11
dissemination and development of technical knowledge, development of
prudential norms within financial institutions that want to participate in these
as well as the development of supervision and regulatory capacity.
* Further promotion of institutional investors in the market With private
sector management of pension and severance payment funds, institutional
investors will increasingly play a much larger role in the financial markets.
Changes are needed in the regulatory framework governing different
institutional investors to enable them to adjust their portfolios to a dynamic
and growing market, to invest in long term securities and the new instruments
being introduced in the markets and to develop their capacity to manage the
portfolio risks of these instruments.
* Consolidation ofpension sector reforms Another major agenda in
maximizing the participation of the institutional investors is the full
implementation of the changes introduced by the pension reform of 1994.
While this process of transferring the pension liabilities from the Government
to the private pension funds is well underway for the central government,
many sub-national entities have been slower to undertake this task. In large
part, this has been due to the complex technical knowledge and human
resources needed to reconstruct the employment history of each employee,
calculate the pension liability and issue bonds to the pension funds, as well as
ensuring that the decentralized entity has been able to put in place other
financial arrangements to back these obligations. To ensure the credibility of
the innovative pension reform, it is important that this process be undertaken
as quickly as possible.
*  InWroving regulation and supervision of markets to generate consumer
confidence and to develop depth. This is discussed in greater detail in the
section below.
m. Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector
Institutional Reform
25.   The new Constitution of 1991 initiated a major reorganization process of the
institutional framework for the regulation and supervision of financial markets. It
established the creation of the Superintendencia de Valores (SV), and gave the
Government the mandate to further reorganize the regulatory and supervisory framework
through the submission to Congress of Leyes Marco (Frarnework Laws) for the Financial
Sector. In this context, Law 35 and several complementary decrees with power of law
have been enacted by the Government, overhauling and modernizing the institutional
structure of the financial system.



12
26.   Among the most fundamental reforms included in this restructuring of the
institutional framework carried out by the authorities are: (i) making the Central Bank
independent from Executive Branch control, and enacting a new Organic Charter for the
entity; (ii) separating the responsibilities for promotion and regulation of financial markets
from those of supervision and control of the markets, thus allowing a more effective
undertaking of each of them; (iii) creation of the Technical Viceministry of Finance, an
entity which was set up to have a broad vision of financial sector issues as well as the
responsibility to generate government policies across the overall financial sector, including
all areas where resources from the public are at stake, such as banking, insurance,
securities markets and pension funds; (iv) overhauling the objectives, responsibilities and
functions of the supervisory bodies related to financial markets. Moreover, the reform
process included -- in particular for the two weakest of these agencies (the former
Comision Nacional de Valores, now transformed into SV, and the SIC), upgrading of their
institutional status, provision of more adequate physical resources, and the means to be
able to attract quality staff through the realignment of salary scales.
27.   Before this reform process, there had been overlaps ofjurisdictions and
responsibilities across the agencies which lead to significant unnecessary costs both for
issuers as well as market intermediaries. The overlaps implied duplication of efforts by
supervisory agencies and increased costs of public offerings due to regulatory delay and
inconsistent information disclosure requirements among supervisory agencies. The
Government's decision to consolidate the number of regulatory institutions involved in
overseeing securities markets, including the transfer of Superintendencia de Sociedades'
responsibilities about overseeing issuing companies to SV, reflects the Government's
commitment to enhanced supervision and greater facilitation of securities issuance.
Institutional Responsibilities and Capacities
28.   Subsequent to this institutional reform process, the policy, regulatory and
supervisory responsibilities for financial markets in Colombia are allocated among the
following major agencies:
29.   Central Bank of Colombia (Banco de la Republica) is responsible for setting
monetary, credit and foreign exchange policies and is an independent entity with no direct
control from other branches of the Government. Prior to the reform process, it was under
the authority of the executive branch.
30. Technical Vice Ministry of Finance. Created by Law 35 in 1993, this Vice
Ministry is responsible for setting and implementing macroeconomic and regulatory policy
on all banking, insurance and securities activities as well as on any activity involving
management or investment of resources from the public. The creation of this Vice
Ministry was a big improvement in pulling together the financial sector policy making
functions under one entity and to separate the formulation of policy for the promotion and
regulation of the financial markets from the supervision and enforcement functions, thus
allowing greater focus on both areas and less conflict among them.



13
31.   Th7e Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia Bancaria (SB)) oversees all
credit institutions, insurance and leasing companies, deposit warehouses, fiduciary
companies and pension and severance payment funds. Substantial efforts have been put in
place to strengthen the institutional capacity of SB after the banking crisis of the late
eighties. In particular, SB has made considerable progress in developing expertise in
prudential regulations related to portfolio classification, asset and liability management,
valuation of investments with market determined prices ("mark to market"), etc.
Nevertheless, SB needs continuing inputs to upgrade its institutional capacity and train its
staff, especially with the increasing globalization and complexity of financial institutions
and transactions. SB has decided to overhaul its organizational structure - from its
present functional organization to a more client based one of multidisciplinary teams
focusing, inter alia, on specific groups of entities that they supervise. As financial
intermediation has become more complex and international, with banks undertaking a
number of transactions through intermediaries and other members of conglomerates, SB
has realized that multi-disciplinary teams focusing on specific economic groups would
provide more intensive and effective supervision. Such a reorganization and change in the
focus of the supervision philosophy will need to be accompanied by significant staff
training.
32.   Staff training is also particularly urgent and important in two areas - supervision of
pension funds and the development of anti-trust regulation within the financial sector.
Recently, SB has also taken over the regulation and supervision of the newly established
private pension and severance payments funds systems, creating a new Delegatura
(equivalent to a Vice Presidency) for this function. Staff capacity in this relatively new
area, which is new both for Colombia and much of the rest of the world, is less developed
and requires considerable training inputs. Another area in which the institutional capacity
of SB needs to be particularly enhanced, is in the implementation of competition and anti-
trust regulation in the banking sector. With the restructuring of the Superintendency of
Industry and Commerce (SIC) in 1992, (see below) the responsibility for the
implementation of competition policy for the banking sector was assigned to SB.
However, this responsibility has not been well integrated into the operations of the agency
and is not being effectively discharged by SB. If the Government's objectives of an
efficient financial system are to be realized, significant efforts are needed in this area.
33.   Superintendency of Securities (Superintendencia de Valores (SV)) is
responsible for the supervision and inspection of stock exchanges, custody companies
(depositories), clearing houses, brokers and dealers, mutual funds and some types of
voluntary pension plans. It also has responsibility for authorizing public issues of
securities and for maintaining the National Registry of Securities, as well as promoting the
development of securities markets. Established by the 1991 Constitution, SV is a
relatively new entity in a growing and diversifying market. Although predisposition of
SV's top management and commitment from the Government is excellent to make SV a
strong institution responsive to the needs of a modern and efficient securities market,
reality still differs significantly from that desired objective. This is to be expected, since



14
SV and its staff are so new. Most of SV's staff are not only new to the institution, but
relatively inexperienced in securities markets operation and supervision as well.
34.   SV has considerable institution strengthening needs, especially in staff training and
learning from the regulatory and supervision practices in other countries with more
developed financial markets. SV also needs to develop processes and systems to put in
place more pro-active supervision with market monitoring and early warning systems, and
strengthen in-house capacity for financial analysis and inspection of supervised entities.
Staff training is also required so that SV be able not just to follow up, but anticipate the
technical developments taking place in the securities markets of both Colombia and
abroad.
35.   Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Cooperativas (DANCOOP)  In
addition to the major superintendencies outlined above, DANCOOP ( as an
"Administrative Department") is responsible for the supervision and regulation of some
2,070 financial cooperatives, 2,300 employee funds, 400 mutual associations and some
5,000 other cooperative entities. The financial cooperatives sector has more than 3
million members that account for some 9.5% of the population of the country and the
assets of this segment of the financial markets have risen considerably in recent years to
account for US$ 2.5 billion. Nevertheless, there has been considerable concern within the
Government that the quality of regulation being undertaken for this segment of the
financial sector has been very weak. The mission of DANCOOP is clearly complex - the
number of entities overseen is large and the range of its responsibilities very wide -
judicial examination, registration, policy formulation as well as the promotion and
strengthening of the cooperatives sector.
36.   To bring in greater professionalism and expertise in sector regulation and to
separate the promotion and regulatory functions, the Government has proposed a
substantive overhaul of the regulatory framework of the cooperatives sector. A draft law
has been prepared which puts forward a three pronged approach to sector regulation:
*  The transfer of responsibility for the supervision of the largest financial
cooperatives to the Banking Superintendency which already has considerable
expertise in supervision of financial intermediaries. The rationale for this
transfer is that these cooperatives are of a size and complexity similar to the
traditional intermediaries supervised by SB.
*  Liquidation of the current organization and staffing of DANCOOP and the
creation of a new entity called the Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria
as the regulator of all other institutions in the cooperatives sector.
*  The transfer of the responsibility for the development and promotion of the
cooperatives sector to a third entity, such as a mixed public-private
corporation.
37.   The proposed law is currently in Parliament for discussion and is expected to pass
in the second half of 1997. While Government policy on the regulation of this sector is
clearly evolving, it is also clear that the creation of an effective system of regulation and



15
supervision will require considerable and sustained institutional development and
strengthening activities. In particular, significant efforts will be needed to develop
professional regulatory capacities within the newly constituted Superintendency of
Economia Solidaria.
38.   Sistema de Inteligencia Financiera. A significant issue in the financial sector in
Colombia is a concern about the use of the domestic financial system for laundering funds
from illegal activities. Thus far, there has been no single and organized way for the
Government to monitor and control money laundering activities. However, the
Government has now put forward a strategy to create a comprehensive financial
intelligence system to monitor transactions and detect suspicious activities.
39.   Conceptualized as a three tier system, the basic information for this financial
intelligence system would be gathered by financial institutions and other "first-tier"
entities, which have the direct contact with the markets and the economic agents
participating in them. These first-tier institutions will have specially trained staff to
monitor transactions and flag those that give some indications of being part of possible
money laundering activities. Such information will be routinely transmitted to the second
tier entities which will be comprised of regulatory agencies such as SB, SV and other
institutions. These entities, which have broad knowledge of the respective sector, will
gather and refine the information received from the first-tier, including cross-institution
linkages and consolidation. The top tier of the system will correspond to the Unidad de
Informaci6n e Inteligencia Financiera (UhF) , which will be the focal point of the system
of financial intelligence.
40.   The UIIF will be a small and highly technical unit with the following functions:
*  To design and oversee the implementation of the financial intelligence system in its
multiple components.
*  To provide guidance to the first- and second-tier entities in their involvment in the
system.
*  To promote the legal and regulatory developments needed to efficiently monitor
money, and in general asset, laundering.
*  To lead the investigations that would arise as a result of the possible money laundering
operations detected at the first- and second-tier levels, and be the channel to turn over
the relevant information to the judiciary authorities for criminal investigation and
prosecution, if warrranted.
41.   A draft law providing a comprehensive legal framework to such a system will be
presented to Congress in mid-1997, and is expected to be approved before end- 1997.
This is an important Government initiative towards the objective of systematically fighting
corruption.



16
42.   Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (SIC)  Overhauled in 1992, the
SIC had traditionally been responsible for protecting intellectual property rights, enforcing
price controls, and quality control regulations. As a result of this restructuring, the
Delegaturapara la Promocion de la Competencia (DPPC) was created to be in charge of
implementing competition policy and to oversee the Chambers of Commerce, including
the operation of the commercial registries. While the DPPC is still in its early stages, the
initial steps taken by the SIC to organize the unit are very positive. The DPPC is being
staffed in a lean manner, with high level professional staff, and it is taking an appropriately
cautious attitude to its new powers and is conscious of its limitations.
43.   Given that the DPPC is a very new entity, it presents both manpower and
infrastructure deficiencies in order to start properly developing its mission of implementing
competition policy. Since antitrust and industrial organization analysis are almost
unknown technical fields in Colombia, hiring professionals with high quality academic
backgrounds does not suffice for DPPC to acquire the necessary technical skills.
Moreover, much of the acquisition of specialized knowledge in competition commissions
around the world takes the form of in-house or on-the-job training. Agencies have over
the years developed a way of doing "case work", and a set of implicit and explicit
procedures. This knowledge of how to initiate, manage and carry a case to its
conclusions, including negotiating with the defending parties, is not learnt in academia, but
rather acquired mostly in an on-the-job basis. The DPPC, however, has no "institutional
history" on which to base on-the-job training for new staff. Obviously, DPPC will develop
such knowledge over the years. In the meantime, the knowledge has to be acquired from
outside sources and transferred to the new staff.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
44.   The main objective of the project is to support the Government's efforts to foster
more effective financial intermediation of resources, as well as more efficient operation of
markets, as a key ingredient for sustained economic growth.
45.   Specific project objectives are to: (i) develop the financial markets into a more
efficient channel for mobilizing domestic savings (including long-term savings generated
by social security funds) and financing investment; (ii) improve the institutional capacities
for financial sector policy formulation and strengthen the regulatory and supervisory
framework in order to, inter alia, minimize the risk of loss of confidence in the financial
markets; (iii) contribute to increase the supply of securities, one of the main constraints to
the growth of the financial markets, by inter alia facilitating the introduction of new
financial instruments; (iv) consolidate the implementation of the social security reform; (v)
contribute to deter corrupt or fraudulent practices such as money laundering; and (vi)
contribute to more efficient operation of financial and non-financial markets by promoting
competition and deterring anti-competitive practices in those markets.



17
Project Components
46.    The following table provides the main components of the project and the principal
areas to be addressed within these components. A detailed description of the objectives,
activities to be undertaken under each sub-component, outputs/impact, timing and
responsibilities is provided in Table 2 of Annex III.
Table 1: Proiect components                          [ Cost (US$)
L Developing the financial markets into a more efficient intermediation channel
A. Improving the Functioning of the Market This sub-component is designed to    575,000
improve regulations and market infrastructure services to increase the efficiency of the
functioning of the securities market. In particular, it will address issues of upgrading in
the pricing, trading, custody, clearing, settlement and payments systems, promotion of
inter-connection and cross listing across domestic and international exchanges,
harmonization of different types of securities, and promotion of new types of trading
instruments, such as short sales and repos.
B. Developing the Marketfor Public Securities This sub-component will be aimed at  487,000
developing the primary and secondary markets for public securities through review and
reform of regulatory and tax constraints that have thus far impeded the deepening of this
market and the emergence of market makers and primary dealers for this market. It will
also review and refine the financial management systems used by the Treasury for its
borrowing operations, develop a methodology for controlling risks in this market,
develop regulations and standards for market operations of sub-national entities offering
public securities, improve depository functions, and support the development of
information systems to monitor the market for public securities. The sub-component will
also provide training and dissemination activities for government officials, regulatory
agencies and other key market participants.
C. Promoting Greater Participation of Institutional Investors in the Financial  175,000
Markets The primary focus of this sub-component will be to review and irvise outdated
regulations governing portfolio management of institutional investors and to develop
technical capacities to assess and properly manage the risks inherent in instruments
such as mutual funds, life insurance, and severance payment funds
IL Strengthening Regulation and Supervision Capacity in the Financial Sector
A. Harmonization and Refinement of the Regulatory Framework This sub-component  440,000
will support the analysis and review of the overall regulatory framework of the financial
sector, with a view to improving its efficiency, reducing regulatory arbitrage,
harmonizing its different components and enforcement mechanisms, developing auto-
regulation mechanisms, and an evaluation of the desirability of establishing a specialized
judiciary instance to deal with cases of financial sector nature.
B. Strengthening Institutional Capacityfor Supervision in the Financial Markets  2,075,000
Provision of international exposure, practical experience and training to staff of the
different supervising entities - in particular the Superintendencies of Securities and
Banking - to increase their knowledge of state of the art financial instruments and
supervisory approaches and techniques, and to support a more modern institutional
model of supervision at Superbancaria. This sub-component will also strengthen the



18
policy formulation capacity in the Technical Vice Ministry of Finance through technical
assistance and staff training to update their skills and knowledge in best practice in
financial sector policy and regulation.
C. Creation of a New Regulatory Frameworkfor the Cooperatives Sector. Following  1,865,000
on the new legal framework currently under discussion, this component will support the
possible liquidation of D XNCOOP, and support the establishment, staffing and
institutional strengthening of a new Superintendency to regulate cooperatives
(Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria). This sub-component will also support the
establishment of a "Delegatura" for cooperatives in Superbancaria, in order to ensure
appropriate supervision of the large financial cooperatives..
HL Increasing the supply of securities and the availability of other financial instmments
A. Increasing Supply of Securities This sub-component will focus on necessary    715,000
changes in the legal and regulatory framework, including possible changes to the
Commercial Code and its regulations, that continue to impede firms' interest to raise
financing in the capital markets. It will also undertake promotion, training and
dissemination activities for government officials, regulatory agencies, market
intermediaries and potential issuers of securities to promote the use of the capital
markets.
B. Introducing and Promoting New Instruments - Inter Alia Securiftization,      1,891,000
Derivatives, Venture Capital Funds, Housing Finance and Education Finance This
sub-component will provide technical assistance for review of legal and regulatory
changes and dissemination activities for the introduction and promotion of new financial
instruments such as the securitization of assets, derivative products, and venture capital
funds to promote nascent small and medium companies. It will also provide assistance
in studying the feasibility of introducing new instruments such as leasing finance for
housing and private finaneing for student loan p.ograms for higher education.
IV. Consolidating the Implementation of the New Social Security System
A. Implementing the Transfer of Pension Liabilitiesfrom the Decentralized Public  3,370,000
Sector Entities (e.g. Municipaltties) to the New System. This sub-component will
support the process of transfering past affiliates of Departmental and Municipal public
pension schemes to the new pension funds. It will assist in the process of compiling the
past contribution records, determining the actuarial value of those liabilities, and
calculating and issuing the pension bonds that will result from those liabilities. It will
also assist these decentralized public entities in devising mechanisms to funds these
liabilities.
B. Institutional Strengthening of the Delegatura of Pension and Severance Payments  218,000
Funds This sub-component will strengthen the institutional supervisory capacities of
this relatively new entity which is in charge of overseeing the recently created pension
funds as well as related institutions.
C. Institutional Strengthening of the Institute of Social Security This sub-component  250,000
will assist the ISS in devising a strategy for upgrading its information systems to improve
financial management, collection records and clienv services data including verification
of eligibility for pension and health benefits under the new pension system.



19
D. Continue Implementation and Regulation of Law 100 on Social Security Reform  533,000
This component will help compile all norms and explanatory texts to the Reform Law,
and provide support to decentralized entities to aid compliance with the new laws and
regulations. It will also monitor the experience in the implementation of the new s;-stem
and prcvide legal and financial expertise for continued finetuwing of the regulations
based on the development over time of the system.
V. Development of a system for Control of Corrupt and Fraudulent Practices
A. Establishment of the System of Fnancial Intelligence and Preparatory Activities  850,000
for Subsequent Implementation. This sub-component will support the development of
mechanisms to control money laundering, and specifically the initial creation of a
financial intelligence system. This system will have at its core an umbrella unit which
will guide the collection, monitoring and analysis of relevant information at the other
layers of the system (e.g. supervisory institutions in ths middle layer and financial
intermediaries in the bottom layer). This financial intelligence system will be developed
through a structured sequence of building blocks. The major challenges are to build the
necessary information and communication systems, to develop the capacities in all
institutions involved, and to train the staff in the three layers.
B. Impkmentation of the System of Financial Intelligence in Three Priority Sectors  500,000
This subcomponent will allow the system to be implemented in three priority sectors
(banking, securities markets and corporate ownership), after approval of the necessary
legal framework.
C. Expansion of the System of Financial Inteligence to Additional Sectors of the  1,330,000
Economy This subcomponent will allow the system to have expanded coverage in other
sectors of the economy, possibly such as cambios (foreign exchange brokers), customs,
income tax, financial cooperatives, real estate, etc.
1,880,000
VL Development of Competition and Anti-Trust Policy Capacity This component
will support the development of policy guidelines and procedural norms for anti-trust
enforcement, not just in the financial sector but economy wide. It will also support the
development of institutional capacity and specialized know-how on competition policy
and enforcement practices
VILL   Project Management and Administration
The project will support the administrative costs of the project management unit  816,000
including a project coordinator, an assistant, an accountant, secretarial support and a
limited amount of office equipment, as well as the cost of an external
administration/contracting agent.
Physical Contingencies (5%/6)                                                   898,000
Price Contingencies (3% per year, 4 years)                                     1,132,000
Total Project Cost                               20,000,000



20
Project Costs
Total project costs are expected to be US$ 20 mnillion and are broken down by
expenditure categories as follows:
Table 2: Project Costs by Expenditure Categories
(US$ million)
With
Project Components                              Before contingencies    contingencies
Consulting services                         13.29                  14.79
Training                                     2.79                   3.11
Equipment                                    1.89                   2.10
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                        20.00
Financing Plan
Table 3.1: Proiect FinancinE Plan
(US$ million)
Local               Foreign                Total
Government                   5.0                   0.0                  5.0
IBRD                         3.2                  11.8                  15.0
Total                        8.2                  11.8                  20.0
Table 3.2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(USS million)
Expenditure Category                        Amount            Financing Percentage
Consultants services                  9.9             100% net of taxes
Training                               2.1            100% net of taxes



21
Goods                              1.5           100% net of taxes of foreign
expenditures and ex-factory,
and 85% of other locally
procured goods
Unallocated                        1.5
TOTAL                              15.0
V. Project Administration and Implementation
Project Execution
47.   The Borrower would be the Government of Colombia, with the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit as the implementing agency. The project would be managed at
two levels: a Steering Committee would be in charge of overall orientation, and a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) established in the Technical Vice-Ministry of the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit would be in charge of project administration. The Steering
Committee would be comprised of representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the
National Planning Department, the Superintendency of Banks, the Superintendency of
Securities, and the Superintendency of Industry and Commerce. This committee would be
headed by the Technical Vice-Minister of Finance, who would be the project's National
Director. A project coordinator from the Technical Viceministry of Finance would be in
charge of the executing unit and would be assisted by consultants hired to do specific
tasks as required. The PCU would be headed by a project coordinator and composed of a
project assistant, an accountant and secretarial personnel. The PCU would coordinate the
project activities with the different beneficiary agencies of the Government and the
municipalities.
48.   The Coordination Unit would have primary responsibility for the preparation of
terms of reference, identification of consultants and preparation of short lists, publication
of notices and evaluation of proposals. Draft operational guidelines for the technical
assistance program, setting out procedures and responsibilities, are included in Annex I.
49.   Consistent with other similar projects in Colombia, the Government and the Bank
have agreed to contract an external administration agent to provide support services to
undertake procurement and manage payments, under a management arrangement
satisfactory to the Bank (see Annex II). Its management fee of US$0.6 million would be
financed from the proceeds of the loan. The external administration agent would disburse
directly to consultants and would maintain supporting documentation on file for review by
Bank supervision missions.
50.   The proposed project would be completed in four years. The completion date is
August 31, 2001, and the Closing Date is February 28, 2002. The National Director will



22
be responsible for project execution as planned, within time and budget, and with
ensuring compliance with all Loan Agreement covenants. Bank requirements for
accounting, administration and procurement procedures will be the responsibility of the
Project Coordination Unit, with assistance from a contracting agent (see below).
Procurement
51.   Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised August 1996).
The bulk of the procurement of goods consists of computer equipment and software for
an estimated US$1.6 million equivalent which will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, to a limited extent, National Competitive Bidding
(NCB). Miscellaneous computer equipment and software and office and photocopying
equipment required for project implementation and administration, will be acquired by
National Shopping by price comparisons of at least three quotations, in packages valued
at less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000 over the life of the project.
52.   Consulting services will be contracted in accordance with the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
To the extent possible, the Borrower would employ consulting firms in preference to
individual consultants for the provision of consulting services to the Project. Training
activities (e.g. attendance to courses, seminars and workshops) would be procured based
on the quality of the programs offered (see Table 3 of Annex III).
53.   Standard contracts, based on the Bank-issued Standard Form of Contracts, and
procurement documentation, based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents, modified as
necessary for the purposes of the project, were agreed with the Government during
Negotiations. Agreement was also reached on formats for the technical specifications in
the case of goods, and terms of reference (including objectives, activities, results,
performance indicators, and estimated breakdown of costs) and the use of the Bank's
standard Letter of Invitation for consulting services.
Bank Prior Review
54.   Prior review by the Bank will be exercised for (see Table 4):
*  All goods procured through ICB and NCB
*  Consultant contracts over US$100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting
firms) and over US$50,000 (in the case of individual consultants and training
activities); however, in all cases the Bank would exercise review of terms of
reference for individual consultants or firms.
55.   All contracts would be subject to post-review sampling during supervision
missions. These arrangements imply that the substantive aspects of approximately 90
percent of the total value of all Bank-financed contracts will be reviewed ex-ante by the
Bank.



23
Disbursements  - -   -     -------------
56.   The
Government,       Consulting    < 50 (indiv.)   Selection according  None (TORs
through the        Services    <100 (firms)     to Consultant           only)
executing                                         Guidelines
agency, will                    >50 (indiv.) |                           All
periodically                   >100 (firms)           "
submit         l             l   _|_|
withdrawal          Goods          < 50       National Shopping         None
applications.                      >50               ICB                 All
The contracting  |_l_l_                                          l
agent will make   Training fees,   < 50             Other               None
payments          Workshops        >50                                   All
directly to      and Seminars
consultants and
suppliers. Expenditures for individual contracts of goods or services, for which prior
review by the Bank is not required, will be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) if the Bank so requests. Detailed supporting documentation for all expenditures
will be kept by the PCU. Full documentation for all contracts requiring Bank's prior
review will be submitted by the borrower to the Bank. Disbursements, representing
mainly expenditures under short term technical assistance, will be made over a 4-year
period, which is the average disbursement profile for technical assistance projects in the
Latin America and Caribbean Region. Since the implementation of some activities has
already started, retroactive financing not to exceed US$1.2 million (i.e., 8% of the loan
amount) would be applied to finance eligible expenditures made after April 30,1997 but no
more than a year before loan signing.
57.   Accounting and Auditing Arrangements  The PCU within the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit will be responsible for fulfilling the accounting, reporting and
audit requirements. The PCU will be responsible for ensuring compliance of all
accounting and auditing requirements and will maintain records and accounts to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures
for each project activity. It will also be responsible for coordinating with the contracting
agent for obtaining all necessary financial information from the procurement performed by
it. The accounts will be consolidated annually to prepare financial statements for the
project as a whole and project financial statements will be prepared in accordance with
Bank guidelines and models. Supporting documentation will be maintained and made
available to Bank missions and independent auditors as renuir-ed. For expenditures
incurred on the basis of Statement of Expenditures, all records will be retained by the PCU
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal years in
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made. Project records and
accounts, including the SOEs, will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate



24
auditing standards consistently applied by auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of
reference for the auditors approved by the Bank. The Bank's Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published in January 1995 and other Bank
guidelines will be used by the auditors in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines.
Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within four months after close of the
Government's fiscal year.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
58.   Within the Government, monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by the
Project Steering Committee, and would be done continually with activities grouped in six-
month cycles. Bank supervision would also be carried out on a continuous basis, with
supervision missions every six months. Twice a year, specific Action Plans would be
prepared, describing in detail the activities, inputs, outputs, timing, personnel responsible
for their execution, how the performance of the various activities will be measured and by
whom, and other information necessary for the execution of the project.
59.   The Project Coordinator, in consultation with the contracting agent, would prepare
a Semi-Annual Progress Report to be formally presented by the National Director to the
Steering Committee. This report would provide financial and procurement information on
project execution, as well as status of performance indicators to date (input, output,
outcome and impact) as compared to the last Semi-Annual Action Plan. The Steering
Committee would review and approve the progress report, including the proposed new
Action Plans. These Plans would be agreed with the Bank during the semi-annual
supervision missions. Agreement on the model of the Semi-Annual Action Plans and
Progress Reports was reached before Board presentation. Submission of the first Semi-
Annual Action Plan would be a condition of loan efectiveness.
60.   A Mid-Term review will be carried out jointly by the Bank and the Ministry of
Finance during the mission scheduled for the first semester of 1999, to measure project
progress and impact and agree on activities for the remainder of the project. The review
would provide a formal opportunity for the Bank to assess covenant compliance by the
Borrower with regard to the Project, an opportunity which the Bank nevertheless will
have at all other times as well pursuant to the General Conditions incorporated in the Loan
Agreement for this Project. This review would also serve as an opportunity to assess the
need for any potential follow-up activity related to the Project.
61.   An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be submitted to the Bank
after project completion and no later than six months after the Loan Closing Date.
Included in this ICR would be an assessment of the execution of the project, costs and
benefits derived, the performance of the Borrower, the World Bank and other agencies
involved in their respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.



25
Benefits
62.   Developing the financial markets would increase the overall efficiency of financial
intermediation between savings and investment. Specifically, the Project is expected to
expand the size, depth, liquidity and intermediation efficiency of the financial markets.
This would not only permit the companies going to the securities markets benefit from the
expansion of the base of savings mobilized for investment, but it would also put
competitive pressure on the lending spreads charged by the financial intermediary sector.
The introduction of new financial instruments would also allow for expansion of the
available capital for investment and allow for more efficient instruments to meet specific
needs of companies at a lower cost of capital.
63.   Strengthening and improving the regulatory and supervisory framework of the
financial markets would provide better risk management, reduce the regulatory costs to
the economic agents (issuers, market intermediaries, investors and financial institutions),
contribute to the avoidance of market crises and build greater public confidence in the
system that mobilizes savings. Implementing pension reforms would help in capitalizing
workers' resources, facilitate the development of a long-term capital market, and increase
the welfare of an important segment of the population, i.e. future retirees. Furthermore,
solid financial markets would also enable the important privatization reform of
infrastructure activities to take place successfully; the development of infrastructure by the
private sector in many cases entails long-gestation bulky investments which would not be
appropriately financed without long-term resources mobilized through the domestic
market. Finally, active promotion of competition would help prevent welfare losses from
non-competitive market arrangements, while active control of money laundering activities
would deter corrupt practices that distort the efficiency of financial intermediation and
resource allocation.
Risks
64.   There are three potential risks to the Project - institutional capacity for
implementation, maintenance of a sector-wide vision of achivement of objectives and the
political commitment to reforms. The project design has addressed these risks by placing
project management with a specialized unit within the Technical Viceministry of Finance,
an agency that is well experienced in handling multi-agency technical assistance projects.
The Project also provides for the engagement of experienced procurement/contracting
agents for added capacity. The implementation risk in this project is considered low.
Potentially more important is the concern that it would be possible for key actors in the
Government to lose the broad vision of sectoral reform. The Government has already
appointed a Standing Commission consisting of the heads of the three stock exchanges,
heads of the supervising agencies and representatives of the Ministry of Finance to follow
up on the broad sectoral policy issues reviewed by the Comision de Mercado de
Capitales. The views of this commission will be fully integrated in the work of the
Steering Committee of the Project and the implementation Actions Plans to ensure focus
on the achievement of development objectives. Finally, there is some risk of political
commitment for needed legislation for some sub-components, specifically the restructuring



26
of the cooperatives sector and the control of corrupt practices such as money laundering
activities. However, past experience with other legislative modernization initiatives in
Colombia has shown that as long as these initiatives are presented to Congress with solid
technical justification, approval is more likely to be expeditious. The Project also provides
for the necessary activities that need to be carried out in order to solidly prepare those
legislative initiatives.



27
Annex I
COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Preparation of Terms of Reference
The participating entities (i.e., Ministry of Finance, SV, SB, etc.) produce
final TORs (based on draft TORs already prepared in conjunction with the
semi-annual Action Plans), with assistance of the Bank when requested.
Final TORs are submitted to the Project Coordinator of the Executing Unit
for approval and to the Bank for no-objection prior to issuing to
consultants.
2.    Creation of Short List for Recruitment of a Firm
The participating entities prepare an initial list for review/approval by the
Executing Unit. The short list is subsequently submitted to the Bank for
no-objection.
3.    Selection of Individual Consultants
The participating entities make an initial selection, send the curriculum
vitae (with a briefjustification of the fee) to the Executing Unit for
review/approval and to the Bank for no-objection.
4.    Draft Letter of Invitation, including Evaluation Criteria, and Contract
The participating entities draft the documents (based on an agreed model)
for review/approval by the Executing Unit. If approved, the Unit forwards
them to the Bank for no-objection.
5.    Evaluation of Proposals
The participating entities evaluate proposals and select the winning firm.
Before notifying the firms, the selection committees will send the
evaluation report and winning proposal to the Executing Unit for approval
and to the Bank for no-objection.
6.    Negotiation of Contract



28
The negotiation of the contract is handled by the participating entities
based on guidelines issued by the Executing Unit. Prior to signature, the
negotiated contract will be sent to the Executing Unit coordinator for
approval and to the Bank for no-objection.
7.    Supervision of Consultants
Supervision is the direct responsibility of the participating entities.
Program reports on technical assistance progress will be included in the
semi-annual reporting prepared by the Executing Unit for the Steering
Committee.
8.    Disbursements
Payments to consultants and suppliers will be made directly by the
contracting agent. Based on the information on actual payments made to
consultants and suppliers by the contracting agent, the Ministry of Finance,
through the Executing Unit, will prepare and submit withdrawal
applications. These application for withdrawal requests submitted by the
Borrower to the Bank will be for a minimum of US$250,000. The
Borrower will submit to the Bank Statement of Expenditures for contracts
below US$100,000 equivalent for consultant firms, and below US$50,000
equivalent for goods, training and individual consultants. The Borrower
will maintain the supporting documentation which will be readily available
for review by Bank supervision mission and the Auditors. Disbursements
for all other contracts will be fully documented.
9.    Audit
An annual audit of the Project accounts will be undertaken at the end of
each fiscal year by independent external auditors and submitted to the
Bank.



29
Annex II
COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA AND CONTRACTING AGENT
1.          The Ministry of Finance will be the Executing Agency on behalf of the
Government for the Financial Markets Development Project (Loan) to be extended by
the World Bank. AGENT will be in charge of the project administration as agreed
between Ministry of Finance and AGENT in a letter of agreement.
2.          For recruiting and managing consultants to be financed by the proceeds
of the Loan, the division of responsibilities between Ministry of Finance and AGENT
will be as follows:
Ministry of Finance:
* Repayment of principal amount, interest and other loan related charges
* Granting approval to the Loan Administration Agreement
 Compliance with Loan Conditionalities as specified in the Loan
Agreement between the Bank and the Government of Colombia
Ministry of Finance (Executing Unit1:
* Identification of consultants and preparation of shoit lists
* Drafting of terms of reference
* Preparation of letters of invitation for proposals
* Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants
* Negotiation of contracts
* Supervision of performance and review and acceptance of reports
* Preparation and submission of withdrawal applications
* Approve AGENT's selection of external auditors for project accounts
* Supervision of funds allocation
* Obtaining the Bank's no-objection for consultant's short lists, terms of
reference and contracts
* Compliance with budget norms outlined in the current budget law
* Establishment of a Budget Section (item) to which Ministry of Finance
will assign disbursements of the World Bank loan and of counterpart
funds
In some of these functions the Executing Unit will not itself be carrying out the task, but reviewing/approving
the actions of the beneficiary agency



30
AGENT:
* Administration of consultant's contracts, including drafting and signing of
contracts, verification of payments requests and carrying out payment to
consultants and suppliers
* Opening and maintaining separate accounts for receipt of Project funds
and effectuating payments
* Preparation of financial statements
* Selection of outside auditors of AGENT's Project accounts and financial
statements
* Submission to Ministry of Finance of all information and supporting
documentation necessary to enable Ministry of Finance to prepare
appropriate withdrawal applications
* Provision to Ministry of Finance with such other services incidental to
the above as Ministry of Finance may reasonably request
3.          In discharging the responsibilities set forth above, AGENT should act as
agent and on behalf of Ministry of Finance.
4.          It is understood that AGENT, which should make all payments required
under contracts administered by it, should be periodically reimbursed by the Bank and
the Ministry of Finance (for the Loan proceeds and the counterpart funds, respectively).
It is further understood that, for this purpose, Ministry of Finance should submit
withdrawal applications to the World Bank on a monthly basis, except as the World
Bank may otherwise require in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
5.          In payment of its services and expenses, AGENT will charge, and the
Government will pay, an all-inclusive fee of (_J % of the amount of payments made by
AGENT. Ministry of Finance should request the World Bank to make all disbursements
from the Loan Account to the order of AGENT into the AGENT's Account No.
6.          AGENT agrees to cooperate with Ministry of Finance and the
Government at large to enable them to comply with all requirements of the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions. Without limitation upon the generality of
the foregoing, AGENT should keep records and separate accounts and provide for the
auditing thereof in such manner as to enable the Government to comply with its
obligations under the correspondent Section of the Loan Agreement and with the
provisions of the disbursement letter.



31
Annex m
Annex m Table 1: Proiect Costs by Component and ExDenditure Cateeorv
(US$ mn.)
L Developing the financial markets into a more efficient intermediation channel  1.24
Consulting services                         1.115
Training                                   0.122
Equipment                                     --
]EL Strengthening Regulation and Supervision Capacity in the Financial Sector  4.38
Consulting services                        2.600
Training                                    1.275
Equipment                                   0.505
IIL Increasing the supply of securities and the availability of other financial  2.60
instruments
Consulting services                         1.679
Training                                    0.927
Equipment                                    --
IV. Consolidating the Implementation of the New Social Security System      4.37
Consulting services                        4.323
Training                                   0.048
Equipment
V. Development of a system for Control of Money Laundering Activities       2.68
Consulting services                         1.180
Training                                   0.270
Equipment                                   1.230



32
VL Development of Competition and Anti-Trust Policy Capacity                 1.88
Consulting services                         1.610
Training                                    0.150
Equipment                                   0.120
VIEL Project Management and Administration                                  0.82
Consulting services                        0.786
Training
Equipment                                   0.030
Sub-total Project Activities                                                17.97
Consulting services                         13.29
Training                                     2.79
Equipment                                    1.89
Physical Contingencies                                                      0.90
Price Contingencies                                                          1.13
TOTAL PROJECT                                                               20.00



Annex m  Table 2: Financial Markets Development Loan: Proiect Activities. Expected Outputs. Timinz and Costs
Objectives and Project Activities                      Outputs/Impacts                   Timing        Cost (US$)  |   Agencies
l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     In v o lv e d
L Developing the financial markets into a more efficient intermediation channel
A. Improving the Functioning of the Market
*   Legal study to harmonize different types of    A consistent and transparent framework for the  8/97-10/97  85,000          VT/SV
securities,                                    universe of securities.
*   Study to assess the feasibility and strategy for  Development of action plan to inter-connect  9/97-2/98   110,000         VT/SV
interconnection across the three Colombian     the exchanges..
exchanges.
*   Diagnostic and reconunendations for ways to   Improvements in the securities depositories,  9/97-6/98     190,000         VT/SV
improve pricing, trading, clearing, settlement,    trading and compensation systems.
custody and payment systems.                                                             _
*   Technical assistance to develop and promote new   New and improved norms and regulations to    7/98-12/98  80,000         VT/SV
financial transactions such as short sales and  allow short sales and repos
repos
*   Study the feasibility and requirements for linking  Adoption of a strategy for linking domestic  1/99-9/99  110,000       VT/SV
domestic stock exchanges with other           markets to international exchanges.
international exchanges.
B. Development of the Marketfor Public Sector
Securities
*   Development of the policy and institutional                                               8/97-12/99      165,000         VT/PCD
framework
*   Definition of a short term financial program  Implementation of a new system of auctioning
(financial programming system) for the      public securities in the primary market.
Treasury and the Directorate of Public Credit,
taking into account macroeconomic and       A well functioning secondary market for public
operational aspects.                        securities with an established network of
*   Carrying out a review of the current system of  traders.



auctions in the primary market, and redefining   A functioning and efficient electronic
privileges and obligations of market makers.    information system to track pricing,
*   For the secondary market, drafting of      transactions, and clearing and payments.
regulations for the participation of the primary
dealers in this market, for the creation of a  Implementation of a more efficient financial
network of blind brokers, and for the use of  management and borrowing strategy for the
TES in open-market operations              Treasury.
.   Diagnostic and design of the basic
characteristics of an information system to
track prices, transactions and custody and
clearing.
.   Reform of Regulations                                                                   9/97-3/01       120,000        VT/PCD/SV
*   Review of the valuation system of market
pricing with a view to removing any biases  A more equitable regulatory and tax regime
against long term investments.            that removes constraints to investment in long
*   Review of the tax regime, paticularly the one    term securities.
applicable to foreign investment in fixed
income securities.                        Improved regulations for short-sales and repos.
*   Development and modification of regulations
for financial instruments for market making in  Improved financial strength of market-makers.
public sector securities: repos, short sales and
derivatives
.   Development of a special methodology for
management of risks inherent in market
making activities.
*   Supervision and Monitoring of the Market                                                1/98-12/99      112,000        VT/PCD?SV/
*   Analysis and definition of institutional                                                                             BR
responsibilities for supervision of public sector  Improvements in facilities and instruments to
securities markets.                       monitor and supervise the primary and
*   Studies to rank primary issuers, to assist in the  secondary trades of public securities.
rating of secondary trades in securities issued
by these entities.                        Improved coordination among the main issuers
*   Design of systems to manage communication,   of public sector securities
information and coordination between the



Treasury and the Central Bank.           STandards and control systems for registry and
*   Design of mechanisms for supervision of   custody
centralized registry and custody systems.
Training and Dissemination                 Greater knowledge amongst policy makers,  9/97-12198     90,000         VTIPCD/SV
*   Training for financial institutions on market    potential market participants and regulators on
making activities for public sector securities.   the issues related to the efficient functioning of
*   Training on portfolio management, including   the primary and secondary markets for public
interest rate risks, liquidity, duration etc.  debt securities.
*   Training for regulators on risk management
issues related to public debt securities.  An increase in the number of market makers
and entities trading in governmuent securities.
C. Promoting Greater Participation of Instiutional
Investors in the Financial Markets
co
*   Legal and financial review of regulations   Changes to the prudential regulations and  1/98-6/01     175,000        VT/SB/SV
governing investments of institutional investors   minimum profitability norms of institutional
(mutual funds, pension funds, severance payment  investors to enable them increase their resource
funds, insurance companies, etc.)          mobilization, particularly of long-term savings.
*   Analysis of minimum profitability required of
pensions and severance payment funds       Improvements in the risk evaluation and
*   Review of rating systems for securities from the   portfolio management capacity for institutional
point of view of the demand side.          investors.
*   Training for developing portfolio management
institutional capacities.
IL Strengthening Regulation and Supervision
Capacity in the Financial Sector
A.  Harmonization and Refinement of the
Regulatory Framework



*   Analysis of feasibility of revising existing    Changes to the institutional structure and the    2/97-9/00  440,000         VT
regulatory norms and institutional arrangements   system of regulation to make it more efficient,
in order to increase the use of auto-regulation  transparent and effective.
and allow better coordination of subjective and
objective criteria regulation.                 Greater knowledge and improved institutional
*   Studies to analyze the existence and causes of  processes within the regulatory entities to
regulatory arbitrage.                          enforce the regulatory framework.
*   Feasibility analysis of the advisability of creating
a special judiciary instance for financial sector
issues.
*   (Advisory services for) Carrying out the changes
in the laws, regulations and operational
procedures needed as a result of the studies
undertaken above, including changes in
regulations regarding on-site and off-site
regulation, consolidation of foreign subsidiaries
in regulation, etc.
B. Strengthening Instiutional Capacityfor
Supervision in the Financial Markets                                                                                                                    )
.   Superintendency of Securities                   Improved capacity within the Superintendency   1/97-6/01     930,000         VT/SV
*   Training activities in the following areas:   of Securities for effective supervision of the
project finance, privatization, portfolio    money and capital markets.
management, risk management for derivative
products, options, valuation, hedging, credit
risk management.
*   Strengthening of supervision systems and
procedures, including drafting of operational
manuals, harmonization of on-site and off-site
supervision procedures, and refinement of
market monitoring and early warning systems.
.   Superintendency of Banking                      Improved capacity within the Superintendency   3/97-6/01     625,000         VT/SB
*   (Consulting services for the) design of a new  of Banking for effective supervision of the
organizational structure focused on group-



entity based supervision rather than functional banking and financial institutions sector.
areas.
*   Review and upgrading of operational manuals.
*   Training activities in state of the art
supervision techniques, familiarity with new
procedures for consolidated supervision,
financial analysis and risk management.
Strengthening Capacity for Policy Formulation    Strengthened capacity within the Vice  3/97-6/01      520,000        VT
*   Technical assistance and training activities for  Mimsterio Tecnico foi financial sector policy
staff in the Directorate of Economic Regulation formulation.
of the Ministry of Finance in the following
areas: financial regulation, financial     Improved financial sector policies.
cooperatives and credit unions, capital markets
development and regulation, international
capital markets and banking, law making and
development, practical yield curve building,
securitization, futures and options, portfolio                                                                                          c
administration, currency trading, inernational
finance, insurance, over the counter markets,
brokerage activities and money laundering
regulation.
*   Establishment of small library and subscription
to international trade journals _      _
C. Creation of a New Regukitory Frameworkfor the Cooperaives Sector
*   Creation and institutional development of a new    A new Delegatura will be created with  3/98-6/00    735,000         VT/SB/
Delegatura for supervision of large financial  appropriate infiasucture to undertake such                             DANCOOP
cooperatives in Superbancaria.              supervision.
* Creation of the entity and legal assignment of
responsibilities.                          Adequate capacity, an appropriate institutional
*   Development of the administrative          structure and a regulatory framework for the
infiasucture.                              supervision and control of the financial
.   Training of personnel.                     cooperatives sector.
*   Analysis of information requirements for



effective supervision
*   Development and implementation of the
required information systems (systems
analysis, provision of hardware and software,
establishment of procedures for data collection,
validation and analysitical processing,
establishment of historical databases, design of
reports system for the Delegatura).
Creation and institutional strengthening of the  Approval of legislation to establish new  3/98-6/01   1,130,000      VT/
Superintendency of Economia Solidaria.      supervisory framework for cooperatives                                    DANCOOP/
*   Liquidation of DANCOOP, separation of                                                                                SES
personnel and staffing of new              A new Superintendency will be created with
Superintendency.                          adequate staff and appropriate infrastructure to
*   Development of institutional and           undertake effective supervision of the
administrative infatnwture for the new     cooperatives sector per se.
Superintendency.
*   Training of new personnel.                 Adequate capacity, an appropriate institutional
*   Determination of information requirements on   structure and a regulatory framework for the                                             O
the entities to be supervised.             supervision and control of the cooperatives
*   Development of management information      sector will be in place.
systems (systems analysis, provision of
hardware and software, establishment of    A working information management system
procedures for data collection, validation and    with relevant data and information collection
analysitical processing establishment of  mechanisms will be in place
historical databases, design of reports system
for the Superintendency).                  Separation of the responsibility to promote the
*   Dissemination of the new norms and         cooperatives sector from the responsibility to
regulations for cooperatives and provision of    supervise it
training to associations of cooperatives for the
subsequent spreading of the disseminated
information and knowledge
m. Incremasing the supply of securities and the availability of other fmancial instruments
A. Increasing Supply of Securdiesl



*   Technical assistance to upgrade norms and   Adoption of recommended changes in the    1/98 - 8/98    130,000        VT/SV
procedures in order to increase the flexibility and  norms and regulations for public issues..
speed of public offerings of securities.
*   Legal analysis and recommendations on possible   Amendments to the Commercial Code and  9/97-3/98    48,000         VT/SV
changes needed to the Commercial Code to   issuance of necessary regulations (draft bill of
reduce disincentives for companies to go public   Law and related regulatory decrees).
*   Training activities for regulators, supervisors,    Improved understanding arnongst market  8/97 - 12/00    217,000  VT/SV
brokers, financial corporations, and potential  participants, intermediaries and regulators on
suppliers and buyers of securities, including  the working of the capital market and its
training courses, seminars and workshops.  regulatory requirements.
*   Market promotion through dissemination      Upgraded knowledge among actual and       8/97 - 9/00    320,000        VT/SV
activities, publications and informational  potential market participants of the
materials                                  characteristics and advantages of the securities                                            X
markets
B. Introducing and Promoting New Instruments -
Securitization, Derivatives, Venture Capital Funds,
Housing Finance and Education Finance
*   Promoting Securitization                    Improved norms and regulations governing the   8/97-10/98  291,000      VT/SB/SV
*   Development of norms to measure and account  issuance and trading of securitization
for the riskiness of securitized instruments.  instruments and their treatment for portfolio
*   Legal studies needed for the broadening of  risk management and classification
regulations on investment by institutional
investors in such instruments.            Definition of methodologies for computing
*   Study of the financial and legal feasibility of    default rates of securitized asstes.
the creation of securitization companies.
*   Training on skills and knowledge development  Adequate knowledge amongst potential market
for market participants, regulators and  participants and regulators on the key
supervisors.                             operational and regulatory principles of
*   Dissemination activities for legislative and  securitization, such as the financial
judicial personnel on treatment of such assets   independence of securitized assets in case of
in case of bankruptcy or liquidation



proceedings.                             bankruptcy of the originator..
Promotion of Venture Capital Funds         Adoption of regulations on the establishment    3/98-2/99  130,000      VT/SV
*   Diagnostic to evaluate implications of the legal  and portfolio management of venture capital
definition of venture capital funds as   funds.
independent entities or as authorized
operations of existing funds.            Adequate knowledge amongst potential market
*   Drafting of regulations for greater flexibility in  participants and regulators on the
investment critera for such funds.       characteristics, operations and advantages of
*   Dissemination activities for promotion of this   this instrument.
instrument and familinazation of the
investment public with it.
*   Promotion of the Derivatives Markets        Possible establishment of an appropriate  3/98-6/01      800,000        VT/SV
*   Diagnostic of the legal and financial    framework for markets for derivative
implications and requirements for the creation  instruments.
of organized derivatives markets and
exchanges.                               Regulations on the establishment and
*   Development of the legal and institutional  operations of markets, and portfolio                                                     a
framework for the introduction of derivatives    management of derivatives.                                                          o
and futures.
*   Training and dissemination activities for policy  Adequate knowledge amongst potential market
makers, regulators and market participants on   participants and regulators on the operations
derivatives markets.                     and regulatory aspects of these complex and
risky instruments.
*   Development of Housing Leasing Schemes      Development of a strategy and legal and   10/97-6/99     310,000        VT/ SB/ SV/
*   Diagnostic studies to assess economic and  regulatory framework to mobilize private                               Development
financial feasibility of housing leasing  financing in housing.                                                  Ministry
schemes.
*   Diagnostic study to assess legal implications    Adequate knowledge amongst potential market
and constraints.                         participants on the strategy, government policy
*   Analysis of of legal, regulatory and      and support, financial instruments and
institutional framework required for housing    regulatory aspects.
leasing schemes.
   Training and dissemination activities for policy  Improved access to owned-housing for low



makers, regulatory agencies and market   income families
participants.__                                                                         _ _  _  __                    _  _ _  _
Development of Education Finance Schemes   Development of a strategy and legal and   8/97-9/00      360,000        VT/ICETEX
*   Studies to evaluate alternative mechanisms to   regulatory framework to mobilize private
mobilize long term savings for educational  financing in education.
finance loans.
*   Diagnostic of alternative financial mechanisms  Adequate knowledge amongst potential market
that operate through the financial sector, to  participants and students on the strategy,
provide student loans, including the conversion government support, and financial instrument.
of ICETEX into a second tier institution.
*   Definition of criteria for eligibility for student   Implementation of the new system of education
loans.                                   finance and a new role for ICETEX.
* Analysis and definition of risk-sharing
arrangements between public and private
sector institutions for the student loans.
* Diagnostic of the role and responsibilities of
ICETEX in policy-making about student loans
in ColombiaC
* Design and drafting of legal and regulatory
norms to put in place new education financing
policies.
* (Technical assistance for) ICETEX to
undertake institutional restructuring and
conversion into second-tier institution.
*   (Technical assistance for) the implementation
of the student loan schemes, including the
negotiation of contracts between ICETEX and
the commercial banks,
*   Training and dissemination activities.
IV. Consolidating the Implementation of the New
Social Security System



A. Impkmening the Transfer of Pension Liabilities
from the Decentralized Public Sector Entities (eg.
Municialities) to the New System
*   Reconstruction of the emDlovment histories of the  Identification of the necesary information to be  8/97-8/00  1,250,000  VT
public emplovees                           collected from the decentralized entities
* Design the data templates for the collection of
information                              Validation methology for data to be inputed in
*   Training of national and regional coordinators  calculation of pension liabilities
and of data collectors
*   Design of the databases to store the collected    Databases with employment histories of all
information                              affiliates to these 1000+ entities
* Collect, input, validate and rectify the source
information into the unified system
*   Supervision of the above process at the
national level (over 1,000 institutions) to
ensure validity and consistency in the system
Actuarial model to compute pension liabilities   8/97-8/00  2,120,000   VM
*   Calculation of the nension liabilities of
decentralized entities                     Determination of the value of pension bonds
*   Identification of data fields to make the  for the affiliates and of the value of the
actuarial computation and design of validation   aggregate liabilities by decentralized entities
mechanisms for these fields
*   Identification of additional relevant     Issuance of bonds by municipios to the pension
information such as collective bargaining  funds to reflect the transferred pension
agreements, special contractual benefits, etc.   liabilities
*   Evaluation of existing actuarial calculations
*   Design of the mathematical and actuarial  Better knowledge of the expected impact of the
models to quantify pension liabilities   pension liabilites on public finances.
*   Running of the system of models for the
1,000+ decentralized entities and their
affiliates
*   Design of a macro model to simulate the
evolution of public sector pension liabilities              __.______            _



over time and their cash flow and fiscal
implications
R Institutional strengthening of the Delegatura of
Pension and Severance Payment Funds
Improve off-site and on-site supervision and  Upgraded supervision of this type of   9/97-12/99     218,000         VT/SB
systems auditing of pension funds by, inter alia,   contractual savings institutions
sharing experiences with pension supervisoTy
agencies of other countries (e.g. Argentina,  More efficient collection of contributions
Chile, Spain, Peru).
*   Upgrade framework for collection of         Lower transaction and marketing costs for
contributions, including distilling experiences  affiliates
from other reformed pension systems
*   Review of the regulatory framework, particularly  Improved investment performance of pension
with respect to procedures for affiliations,  funds
withdrawals and transfers, investment regimes,
acknowledgement and payment of pensions,
reserve funds, fees and marketing expenses,etc.
*   Study to upgrade the supervision system of the
pension funds' management of employment
histories of affiliates
*   Upgrade the statistical databases on the pension
system, based, inter alia, on the experiences of
other reformed pension schemes.
* Training of the Delegatura's staff, in subjects
including actuarial valuation, estimation of
pension liabilities and life insurance
methodologies.
C. Institutional Strengthening of the Institute of
Social Security
*   Comprehensive diagnostic and evaluation of the   Improvements in the financial management of  9/97-8/98  250,000    VT/ISS
existing information systems of the ISS as well as the ISS.
ot its present and future needs for management
information systems.



*   Preparation and design of a strategic plan for the  Better capacity of the ISS to serve its affiliates
modernization and upgrading of the management
information systems.
D. Pending Regulation and Impkmentation of Law
100 on Social Security Reform
*   Analysis of alternative options for filling the  Isuance of appropriate regulations and  10/97-6/01  533,000        VT
resource gap for decentralized entities to fulfill   establishment of efficient implementation
their oension obligations and liabilities  mechanisms to implement the Social Security
*   Analysis of harmonization of norms on collective  Law
bargaining agreements with regime of individual
capitalization                             Parties affected by the new social security
*   Collection and analysis of operational guidelines  system will have adequate knowledge of their
being applied by entities of "prima-media" to  responsibilities and how to carry them out.
venfy their compliance with the above Law and
its regulatory decrees                     Improved financial perfonnance of new
*   Compilation of all legal and regulatory nonns  pension fund system and resulting higher
with reference to the new pension system, and  pension benefits for its members
issuance of dissemination and explanatory texts
to aid compliance with the social security law.
*   Evaluation of the impact of different provisions
of the law and continued fine-tuning of the
regulatory system emerging from the law.
V. Development of a system for Control of Money
Laundering Activities
A. Estabishment of the System of Fnancial
Intelggence and Preparatory Adivitesfor Subsequent
Impkmentation
*   Creation of the Financial Intelligence    Establishment of core entity to initiate process   3/97-7/98  850,000   VT/UIIF/SB/
Information Unit (UI1F)                  of building the financial intelligence system                           SV/SS
*   Detail design of the UIEF in terms of its
structure, technical and administrative  Hiring of staff and assembling of



procedures, operational manuals, definition of   administrative and procedural infrastruture.
organizational and staffing structure, job
descriptions, etc.                         Development of pilot information system to
*   Hiring of UIIF Director, strategy coo.dinator,   gather, monitor and detect potential money
operations coordinator, and administrative  laundering transactions.
coordinator
*   Design of the norms and procedures to launch   Staff have the capacity to monitor and analyze
the system for control of money laundering in   information for detection of irregular practices.
the first three sectors (banking, securities
market and corporate control)
*   Provision of initial systems for data gathering
and information processing for the UIEF
*   Drafting of legislation to expand the system
beyond the initial unit
   Initial training of UIF staff.                                                                                                           n
*   Strengthening of institutional capacities for
control of money laundering in the three
selected 2nd tier institutions (Superbancaria,
Supervalores, Supersociedades)
*   Creation of the specialized units in the three
above institutions
R Impkmentaton of the System of Financial
InteUgence in the three priority sectors
*   Approval of legislation to implement the   Approval of legislation to implement the   8/98-11/99      500,000        VT/UIIF/SB/
system in the priority sectors            financial intelligence system                                              SV/SS
*   Development of information systems linking
the three superintendencies with the UIJF  Information systems to gather, monitor and
*   Development of monitoring system for       detect potential money laundering transactions
ROIS/SUOR (Suspicious or Unusual           are in place and are generating relevant data.
Operations Report ng)
*   Training of laundering analysts of the UIF  Staff from the relevant institutions in the three
*   Development of query systems for accessing  sectors have the capacity to monitor and
databases of the three 2nd tier institutions                                   __                                  _



.   Expansion of UIEF's information systems   analyze information.
capacities, to allow for future incorporation of
additional sectors and volume of operations
C. Expansion of coverage of the system offinancial
intelUigence to additonal sectors of the economy
(cambios, customs, income tax, real estate, etc)
*   Development of information systems linking    Financial Intelligence System reaches broad  12/99-6/01  1,330,000  VT/UIEF/Other
the additional 2nd tier entities with the UIIF    coverage of the economy                                         agencies TBD
*   Development of monitoring system for
ROIS/SUOR (Suspicious or Unusual         Money laundering practices are generally
Operations Reporting)                    identified, and the relevant authorities receive
*   Training of staff of UIEF and 2nd tier    the necessaly information to take appropriate
institutions in newest techniques of money  action to deter them.
laundering
*   Strengthening of institutional capacities for
control of money laundering in the additional                                                                                        O
2nd tier institutions
*   Creation of the specialized units in the above
institutions
*   Development of query systems for accessing
databases of the new 2nd tier institutions
*   Study to evaluate the system of financial
intelligence for possible future modification
and upgrading
VL Development of Competition and Anti-Trust
Policy Capacity
Development of Institutional Know How on   *  Expertise in industrial organization and  9/97-9/00   470,000        VT/SIC
Policy and Substantive Areas                   antitrust regulation acquired by 5 lawyers
*   Transfer of knowledge from experienced       and 4 economists
academics in anti-trust and industrial   *  Four foreign academics to be brought to
organization                                 SIC for a full summer each to upgrade



*   Obtain advice and intellectual leadership     theoretical skills
through in-house part-time top notch economic  a  Hiring of permanent local part-time
consultant                                    consultant for period of three years
*   Development of Institutional Know How on     *  Three annual seminars will provide SIC  9/97-9/00       380,000        VT/SIC
Procedural Matters                              staff with the distilled knowledge of those
*    Intensive one week seminars by current or     that have managed antitrust cases
former staff of established competition    *  Issuance of Procedural Guidelines on
commissions                                   anttrust management
*   Development of Organizatonal Guidelines    *  12 staff of SIC will participate as
with support from above staff                 apprentices in the work of established
*   Apprenticeship program at foreign competition  competition commission
commissions                                                                                                        .
*   Development of Policv Guidelines and         As policy guidelines need to be based, inter  9/97-9/99   250,000         VT/SIC
Regulatorv Normsl                           alia, on domestic experience, issuance process
*   Guidelines and Norms for mergers and       would be in steps:
acquisitions                               *  Preliminary guidelines
*   Guidelines and Norms for anti-competitive  *  Official Guidelines                                                                         4
investigations
*   Guidelines for sanctions and penalties
*   Inftructur Development                       Creation of an inaUtte for acquisition     12/97-6/99     330,000         VT/SIC
*   Creation of anti-trust library                and management of information:
*   Development of bibliographic database      *  Acquisition of library materials
*   Development of Case Loan database          *  Operation of bibliographic database
*   Development of a specialized Local Area    *  Operation of Case Loan database
Network                                    *  Operation of specialized LAN
*   Analvsis of mergers and anti-competitive     *  On economically, and possibly politcally,   12/97-6/01  450,000        VT/SIC
investigations                                  sensitive cases: (i) approval/Rejection of
*   Large and complex cases of mergers and anti-  mergers; and (ii) decisions on existence
competitive investigations need to be handled  and penalizaton of anti-competitive
with specialized expertise in order to avoid  practices
wrong decisions in potentially critcal cases  Technically superior and faster decisions on
*   Technical and economic work to be contracted  cases at stake
with specialized foreign consultants to support          _ ._.._..._



policy decisions on specific cases. Would
include 2 to 3 cases per year
VIIL  Project Management and Administration                                                    816,000    VT
VIIL Contingencies
Physical Contingencies (5%/)                                                                   898,000
Price Contingencies (3% per year in US$)                                                      1,132,000
Total Project Cost                                                                     20,000,000
Agencies:
VT: Technical Viceministry of Finance (Viceministerio Tecnico)
SV: Superintendency of Securities (Superintendencia de Valores)
SB: Banking Superintendency (Superintendencia Bancaria)
BR: Central Bank (Banco de la Republica)
PCD: Public Credit Directorate, Ministry of Finance (Direcci6n de Credito Publico)
DANCOOP: Department of Cooperatives (DANCOOP)
SES: New superintendency for cooperatives, to be created (Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria)
ICETEX: Institute for financing of higher education (ICETEX)
ISS: Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social)
UHIF: Financial intelligence and information unit (Unidad de Informaci6n Inteligencia Financiera)
SIC: Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio)



49
Annex m
Table 3: Procurement Arraneements
Activities                    Total Cost    Procurement method for
(US$)          Consulting Services
Developing the financial markets into a more efficient intermediation channel
A. Inproving the Functioning of the Market       575,000          QCBS, SBCQ,SS,IC
B. Developing the Marketfor Public Securities    487,000            QCBS, SBCQ,FB
C. Promoting Greater Participation of Institutional  175,000       QCBS, SBCQ, FB
Investors in the Financial Markets           I _I
IL Strengthening Regulation and Supervision Capacity in the Financial Sector
A. Harmonizeation and Refinement of the Regulatory  440,000         QCBS, SBCQ, IC
Framework
B Strengthening Insutional Capacity for         2,075,000          QCBS, SBCQ, FB
Supervson in the Financial Markets
C. Creation of a New Regulatory Frameworkfor the  1,865,000       QCBS, SBCQ, IC, FB
Cooperatives Sector.
mL Increasing the supply of securities and the availability of other financial instruments
A. Increasing Supply of Securities               715,000             QCBS, IC, FB
B. Introducing andPromoting New Instruments -   1,891,000         QCBS, SBCQ, IC, FB
Inter Alia Securitization, Derivatives, Venture Capital
Fund, Housing Funance and Education Fnance.
IV. Consolidating the Implementation of the New Social Security System
A. Implementing the Transfer of Pension Liabilties  3,370,000           QCBS
from the Decentralized Public Sector Entities (e g.
Municipalities) to the New System.
B. Institutional Strengthening of the Delegatura of  218,000         SBCQ, IC, FB
Pension and Severance Payments Funds.
C. InstiAutional Strengthening of the Institute of  250,000             QCBS
Social Security.
D. Continue Implementation and Regulation of Law  533,000              QCBS, IC
100 on Social Security Reform



50
V. Development of a system for Control of Money Laundering Activities
A. Establishment of the System of Fnancial        850,000          QCBS, SCBQ, IC, FB
Intelligence.
B. Implementation of the System of Fnancial       500,000              QCBS, IC, FB
Intelligence in Three Priority Sectors
C. Expansion of the System of Financial Intelligence  1,330,000        QCBS, IC, FB
to Addional Sectors of the Economy
1,880,000          QCBS, SS, IC, FB
VL Development of Competition and Anti-Trust
Policy Capacity
VIL   Project Management and Administration
816,000               QCBS, IC
Physical Contingencies (5%/o)                     898,000
Price Contingencies (3% per year, 4 years)        1,132,000
Total Project Cost                20,000,000
QCBS: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
SBCQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS:     Single Source selection
IC:     Individual Consultants
FB:    Selection under a Fixed Budget












IMAGING
Report No.: T       7135   CO
Type:     TAN



