Report No. PIC634
Project Name              Colombia-Financial Markets Technical...
Assistance Loan
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Finance
Project ID                COPA6884
Implementing Agencies     Ministry of Finance
Guillermo Perry
Carrera 7A No. 6-45
Bogota, Colombia
Date PID Prepared         February 21, 1996
Projected Board Date      August 27, 1996
1.   Country/Sector Background: Colombia has embarked upon a program of
major economic reforms aimed at improving resource allocation by opening
the economy to the competition and opportunities of international
markets and liberalizing domestic markets. To facilitate the supply
response to the trade, industrial and agricultural reforms, the
Government is carrying out an extensive reshaping of the financial
sector. Efforts have been focussed until now mostly on the financial
intermediation system, which in the pat has been the main source of
financing for the productive sectors and where the most urgent problems
were concentrated. These included a widespread banking crisis in the
mid-1980s and the subsequent nationalization for financial institutions.
2.   A Financial Policy Framework (FPF) was adopted by the government in
1991 laying out the key reforms to be undertaken in the financial
sector. These reforms include liberalizing interest rates, phasing out
credit subsidies and forced investments, reducing financial system
segmentation and the role of public financial institutions, increasing
the autonomy of the Central Bank, and strengthening banking supervision.
With the implementation of the FPF well underway, the government has now
shifted its attention towards complementary steps of financial sector
development, including issues related to non-banking areas such as
liberalization and strengthening of the securities markets, social
security reform entailing the creation of private pension funds, active
promotion of competition, and facilitating the development of new
financial markets and instruments.
3.   Project Objectives:   The proposed project would support the
Government's efforts to foster more effective financial intermediation
of resources, as well as more efficient operation of markets in general,
as a key ingredient for sustained economic growth. Specific objectives
are to: (i) develop the financial markets into a more efficient channel
for mobilizing domestic savings (including long-term savings generated
by social security funds) and financing investment; (ii) strengthen the
prudential regulation framework in order to decrease the risk of loss of
investor, confidence in the securities market; (iii) improve the
institutional capacities for financial sector policy formulation and its
linkage to macroeconomic policy; (iv) contribute to increase the supply
of securities, one of the main constraints to the growth of the markets,



by inter alia facilitating the introduction of new financial
instruments; (v) contribute to more efficient operation of financial and
non-financial markets by promoting competition and deterring anti-
competitive practices in
those markets.
4.   Project Description:   Preliminary analysis suggests that the
project would provide technical assistance in the following areas:
(a) Securities Market Regulatory and Supervisory Framework: (i)
Upgrading of regulations for market intermediaries on capital
adequacy, own-account operations, short sales, margin transactions,
borrowing operations, professional requirements, independent
brokers, and market-makers; (ii) Strengthening of regulations on
exchanges including membership criteria, qualification of member
brokers, self-regulatory systems, and guarantee funds; (iii)
Development of market infrastructure including rating agencies,
unified trading systems, and efficient custody, clearing and
settlement systems; (iv) Upgrading of information disclosure
standards, including aspects related to accuracy of information and
accounting and auditing standards, establishment of a modern public
registry of securities; (v) Strengthening of SV's monitoring and
enforcement capacities on intermediaries, institutional investors,
market operations, development of early warning and market
manipulation detection systems; (iv) Development of regulatory
framework on unfair market practices (insider information/trading,
conflict of interest, etc.) including definition of legal concepts,
guidelines about what does and what does not constitute such
practices, and monitoring, enforcement and sanctioning of forbidden
practices; (vii) Strengthening of SV's surveillance and inspection
capacities of market intermediaries, exchanges, custody and similar
entities, institutional investors, and(since transfer of
responsibilities from Supersociedades) issuers; (viii) Training of
SV's staff on legal, economic and financial topics; and, (ix)
Upgrading of SV's information systems.
(b) Financial Sector Policy Formulation: (i) Building up of policy
formulation capacity in Executive Branch through strengthening of
skills of recently created Technical Viceministry of Finance and
development of information tools needed for adequate policy making;
(ii) review of insurance sector framework and its future linkage
with private pension fund system; (iii) Facilitation of regional
integration of financial markets and development of homologation
process of norms on banking, securities and insurance activities;
(iv) Review of financing policies and mechanisms for low income
housing and proposals for improved system; (v) Feasibility study of
financing mechanism for post-secondary education; and (iv)
Definition of comprehensive strategy for development of Government
Securities market.
(c) Financial Markets Promotion: (i) Study and development of strategy
for reducing remaining disincentives to offers of existing types of
securities; (ii) Feasibility study of introduction of mortgage-
backed securities and other asset-backed instruments; (iii)
Assistance in the development of new financial instruments
- 2 -



necessary for financing of private sector sponsored infrastructure
project; (iv) Feasibility study of development of an over-the
counter market among financial institutions; (v) Feasibility study
of development of a secondary market for small-cap companies, which
would have lighter issuing requirements and would be limited to
institutional investors; (iv) Feasibility analysis and possible
development of derivative markets, including futures and options on
foreign currency, interest rates and market indexes; (vii) Analysis
of strategies to deepen the securities market, including possible
mechanisms for extension of maturities of debt instruments; and
(viii) Feasibility analysis of development in Colombia of non-
traditional financial activities such as venture capital,
investment partnerships, etc.
(d) Social Security Reform: (i) Development of investment portfolio
guidelines for new pension funds, from a prudential regulation
point of view; (ii) Analysis of gaps between expected investment
needs of pension funds and availability of investment options in
Colombia; and (iii) Development of a strategy to best fulfill
unsatisfied investment needs, in coordination with (c) above.
(e) Promotion of Competition: (i) Development of institutional know
how on competition policy and substantive areas; and (ii)
Development of institutional know how on procedural matters.
5.   Project Implementation:   The Borrower would be the Government of
Colombia, with the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit as the
executing agency. The project would be managed at two levels: a
Steering Committee would be in charge of overall orientation, and an
executing Unit of the Ministry of Finance would be in charge of project
administration. A project coordinator from the Technical Viceministry
of Finance would be in charge of the executing unit and would be
assisted by consultants hired to do specific tasks as required.
6.   The Executing Unit would have primary responsibility for preparing
terms of reference and short lists, and selecting consultants, subject
to Bank no-objection. All consultants would be selected and hired in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. All
reports and recommendations of the consultants engaged to assist in the
execution of the project would be submitted to the Bank for its review
and comments.
7.   The Government and the Bank would use UNDP to administer the
contracts and payments under a management arrangement satisfactory to
the Bank. Its management fee would be financed from the proceeds of the
loan. UNDP would disburse directly to consultants and would maintain
supporting documentation on file for review by Bank
supervision missions.
8.   Environmental Aspects:   The Project belongs to Environmental
Category C and has no adverse environmental impacts.
9.   Program Objective Category:   The Project, by supporting the
development of financial markets and their regulatory framework, would
contribute to Financial Intermediation, Private Sector Development, and
-3 -



improved Public Sector Management.
10. Procurement: Procurement methods to be determined during project
appraisal.
11. Account and Audit: UNDP will maintain separate accounts for
receipt of project funds and payments for all project activities. UNDP
accounts and statements of expenditures, both of the Executing Unit and
of UNDP, would be audited each year by auditors acceptable to the Bank
in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The audited reports
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close
of its fiscal year.
12. Benefits: Developing the financial markets would increase the
overall efficiency of financial intermediation between savings and
investment. A robust non-banking market not only would serve the
purpose of fulfilling the needs of economic agents who require non-
traditional financial services, but would also contribute to reduce the
high intermediation costs of the credit institutions by putting
competitive pressure on that subsector. Strengthening the regulatory
and supervisory framework of securities markets would help prevent
possible unforeseen events that could lead to disenchantment with the
market and eventual collapse due to loss of confidence. Developing a
deep financial market would also allow the pension fund reform to
achieve its desired objective of long-term capitalization of workers'
resources. Furthermore, solid financial markets would also enable the
important privatization reform of infrastructure activities to take
place successfully; the development of infrastructure by the private
sector in many cases entails long-gestation bulky investments which
would not be appropriately financed without long-term resources
mobilized through the domestic market. Finally, active promotion of
competition would help prevent welfare losses from non-competitive
arrangements and contribute to decreasing the causes which are currently
limiting the supply of securities.
Task Manager: Andres Jaime
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



