                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28928

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-22479 SCL-41960)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                              COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                PROJECT




                                              June 20, 2004




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Colombian Peso

                              Col. Peso 2,766.5 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 1.00 = Col. Peso 0.00036



                                        FISCAL YEAR

                                  January 1 to   December 31




                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AML/CTF   Anti-money laundering / Countering of terrorist financing
BANCAFE   Banco Cafetero (Bank serving the Coffee Grower's Region)
BECH      Bancos Especializados en Crédito Hipotecario (Mortgage Banks)
BR        Banco de la República (Central Bank of Colombia)
CAMEL     Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity Bank Rating System
CAV       Corporación de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings & Loan Banks)
CONPES    Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social (Economic Policy Council)
DANE      Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (Statistics Agency)
DGCP      Dirección General de Crédito Público (Public Debt Office of MoF)
DGRF      Direccion General de Regulación Financiera (Financial Regulation Department of MoF)
DGSS      Direccion General De Seguridad Social (Social Security Department in the MoF)
DTF       Depósitos a Término Fijo (Interest rate on time deposits)
DTN       Dirección del Tesoro Nacional (National Treasury in Ministry of Finance)
FINDETER  Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (Municipal Financing Bank)
FIs       Financial Institutions (supervised by the Banking Superintendency)
FOGAFIN   Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones Financieras (Deposit Insurance Agency)
FONPET    Government Public Pension Reserve for Decentralized Departments/Territories
FRECH     Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilización de la Cartera Hipotecaria
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
MBS       Mortgage Backed Securities
MoF       Ministry of Finance
P-FSAL I  First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit within the MoF, the Implementing Agency
RP/REPO   Repurchase Market / Repurchase Operation
SARC      Sistema de Administración Riesgos de Crédito (Credit Risk Mgmt. System)
SB        Superintendencia Bancaria (Superintendency of Banks)
SES       Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria (Superintendency of Cooperatives)
SHD       Secretaria de Hacienda Distrital (Treasury Department of the Capital District of Bogota)
SIC       Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio (Superintendency of Industry and Commerce)
SS        Superintendencia de Sociedades (Superintendency of Corporations)

SV      Superintendencia de Valores (Securities Superintendency)
TES     Treasury Bills/Notes
UIAF    Unidad de Inteligencia y Análisis Financiero (Financial Intelligence Unit)
UPAC    Unidad de Poder Adquisitivo Constante (Mortgage Price Index)
UVR     Unidad de Valor Real (Index based on real value of mortgages)
VAR     Value at Risk
VIS     Vivienda de Interés Social (Social Priority Housing)




                             Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                          Country Director        Isabel Guerrero
                            Sector Manager        John Pollner (Acting)
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           John Pollner

                                         COLOMBIA
                FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT T.A. PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            23
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42

Project ID: P006884                                                  Project Name: CO FINANCIAL MARKETS
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: John Daniel Pollner                                     TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CO FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                         L/C/TF Number: TF-22479; SCL-41960
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (55%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (25%); Capital markets (20%)
                  Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); Other financial and private sector development (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (S); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/22/1993                                     Effective: 06/30/1996                11/21/1997
     Appraisal: 11/15/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  02/08/2000
      Approval: 06/20/1997                                      Closing: 02/28/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Superintendencies of Banks, Securities, Companies, Cooperatives, Industry;
                                           FOGAFIN; Pensions Directorate; AML Unit; Public Credit Directorate; Financial
                                           Regulation Directorate; Capital City Gov't.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:                 John Pollner                                   Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             John Pollner                                   Andres D. Jaime
ICR Primary Author:             J. Pollner; M. Lasaga


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The overall objective of the Project as stated in the MOP and in the Loan Agreement was to
support the Government's efforts to foster more effective financial intermediation of resources, as well as
more efficient operation of markets, as a key ingredient for sustained economic growth.

         Most of the policy reform initiatives in the financial sector prior to this Project had focused on the
financial intermediation system, which had traditionally been the major source of financing and the area
where most urgent issues were concentrated due to the banking crisis of the mid-eighties and the subsequent
nationalization of many financial institutions. These initiatives included the liberalization of interest rates,
phasing out of credit subsidies and forced investments, reduction of segmentation in the financial system,
reduction in the role of public financial institutions, greater autonomy for the Central Bank and
improvements in banking supervision.

         While policy reforms in financial intermediation during the late 1980s and the 1990s were
instrumental in stabilizing the financial system, the capital markets remained small and rudimentary. A
number of structural, institutional, and environmental factors conspired against the development of capital
market activities. The shallowness of the capital markets was a deterrent to the growth of domestic industry
which had to rely on more costly shorter-term financing for longer term investments.

         In an effort to address the obstacles to the development of the capital markets, the Government
appointed a high level commission in 1995 to make recommendations on capital markets initiatives. The
recommendations of the Commission, which were based on analytical work carried out by capital markets
specialists with the assistance of the Bank, were instrumental in guiding Government policy for capital
markets development.      a/ 1/The Financial Markets Development Project was thus designed to support the
design and subsequent implementation of these initiatives.

In order to achieve the stated objectives, the project components were organized according to six
specific objectives:

I. Developing the Financial Markets into a More Efficient Intermediation Channel

·        Improve the functioning of the market by upgrading the pricing, trading, custody, clearing and
settlement systems.
·        Enhance the liquidity of the public sector debt securities market through the development of the
primary and secondary markets.
·        Promote greater participation in the financial markets by institutional investors.

II. Strengthening Policy Formulation, Regulation, and Supervision Capacity in the Financial Sector

·        Harmonize and refine the regulatory framework of the financial system.
·        Strengthen the institutional capacity for supervision in the financial markets through provision of
training for Superintendency of Banks (SB) and of Securities (SV) personnel.
·        Strengthen the policy formulation capacity at the Vice Ministry of Finance.
·        Creation of a new regulatory framework for the cooperative sector.


a/ All footnotes are listed as endnotes in Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents.



                                                              - 2 -

III. Increasing the Supply of Securities and the Availability of other Financial Instruments

·        Review changes required in the Borrower's laws to facilitate the issuance of securities in the
marketplace.
·        Provide training on financial instruments and markets to regulators, potential issuers and investors.
·        Promote new instruments such as securitization, venture capital funds, and derivatives markets.

IV. Consolidating the Reform of the Social Security System

·        Implement the transfer of pension liabilities from the decentralized public sector entities to the new
system.
·        Institutional strengthening of the pension Delegatura (Supervision Department within SB).
·        Institutional strengthening of the Institute of Social Security.
·        Continue to implement the general pension system reform.

V. The Development of a System of Financial Intelligence to Control Corrupt and Fraudulent
Practices

·        Structure the Unit for Financial Intelligence (UIAF) as an initial step leading to the establishment
of the intelligence system.
·        Implementation of the system of financial intelligence in the SB, SV and the Superintendency of
Companies (SS).
·        Expansion of the system of financial intelligence to additional sectors of the economy.

VI. Development of Competition Enhancement and Anti-Trust Policy Capacity

·        Develop competition and anti-trust policy capacity.

         The Capital Markets at the time of Project Design. Even though Colombia had the benefit of
relatively low and stable inflation rates compared to other countries in Latin America, the capital market in
Colombia had languished since the 1960s. During 1986-1993, average market capitalization of the
Colombian markets was only 7 percent of GDP, comparable to Argentina, Indonesia and Nigeria, but well
below the newly industrialized countries like Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Chile with similar
ratios greater than 100 percent. Concentration indices for the Colombian stock market, measured as the
share of the ten largest stocks in market capitalization, were among the highest in the world. During
1986-1993, the ten largest publicly issued stocks represented 74 percent of market capitalization, compared
to 14-19 percent in the U.S. and Japan. The capital market was highly illiquid as demonstrated by the ratio
of market transactions to GDP of only 5.2 percent, of which equity transactions were only 2.1 percent. One
of the key constraints to the growth of the capital markets had been the paucity of supply of securities.

         Risks to the Project. The Project's Technical Annex identified three potential risks: i) institutional
capacity for implementation; ii) maintenance of a sector-wide vision of achievement of objectives; and iii)
political commitment to reforms. The institutional capacity at the Ministry of Finance, the Technical
Vice-Ministry and the Project Coordination Unit (PUC) which had already managed earlier TA projects
from the Bank and the Inter American Development Bank was considered strong. A Technical Committee
was also created by the Borrower to supervise project implementation. While these arrangements were
useful to provide overall guidance or sector-wide vision to a multifaceted project, the Bank should have



                                                       - 3 -

given closer consideration to institutional limitations within existing as well as newly established
beneficiary agencies. Project implementation challenged the capacity of some beneficiary agencies to
manage operational activities involving complex procurement procedures prescribed by the Borrower's as
well as the Bank's international practices.

         The risk of political commitment was appropriately flagged at the time of Project preparation.
Some sub-components called for regulatory reforms, either through the application of existing legislation or
through the development of new legal reforms. The initiatives to increase the supply of securities, to
promote development of a liquid public debt market, to create a new regulatory framework for the
cooperatives sector, to enforce anti-money laundering practices, and to promote institutional investors all
required legal reforms, for which political commitment was a basic ingredient. Perhaps additional analysis
of the political environment in the context of these reforms would have been helpful. While the Project
document referred to positive experiences with previous legislative modernization initiatives, a more
forward looking political assessment may have been useful in the design of some of the sub-components
such as the review of capital market norms. Additional details as to what types of legal reforms were
expected to be addressed such as the issuance of regulations or the submission to Congress of new
legislative projects would have been helpful in order to better gauge implementation risks.

         One of the implementation risks not addressed by the appraisal was financial risk. As explained in
the section on implementation / outcome, the economic / financial crisis of 1998-1999 resulted in fiscal
austerity measures that curtailed budget allocations for Project activities that had already been approved
for Bank funding. Because of the characteristics of the budgetary process in Colombia, any line item in the
budget of the beneficiary entities is subject to cancellation as part of any general expenditure reduction
directives issued by MoF, even if those items are to be funded directly by the Bank and not by general
budget resources. For that reason explicit analysis of this risk and contingency plans of action in terms of
alternative implementation strategies should have been explicitly considered.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The Project objectives remained unchanged. While additional beneficiary units were added, their
activies were in conformance with the stated project objectives and adaptation to the then existent economic
environment.

3.3 Original Components:

Overall Design of the Project

         Project design evolved through several stages during an unusually long preparation period of more
than five years, 1992-1997. After initial design in 1994, the Project was put on hold, then re-started in
1996, and finally presented to the Board in May 1997 as a different project than first proposed. The initial
concept design had been a combination of a financial sector and a capital markets project consisting of
policy reforms, technical assistance and a financing component to jumpstart capital market activities3. The
goal first proposed in the Initial Executive Project Summary was to support the development of more
robust capital markets and to thus reverse the decline of securities in the financing of private sector
investments. The three components of policy reforms, financing, and technical assistance that had been
envisioned in the original design addressed various impediments to capital markets development. The Bank
wanted to adopt a two-pronged strategy of strengthening the institutional capacity of the financial markets
while simultaneously providing financing to support the development of new financial instruments. The
financial component would support the development of the securities market through a backstop facility to



                                                      - 4 -

extend maturities of newly issued securities or other financing schemes designed to increase underwriting
activity . The Initial Executive Project Summary (February 1992) also contemplated the potential benefits
        4


to the capital markets from the introduction of securitization of assets, which later became one of the most
dynamic innovations in the Colombian financial system. The technical assistance (TA) component in this
hybrid operation was expected to assist the authorities (i) to review the existing regulatory framework and
design a more adequate one; (ii) to design and implement efficient approval, supervision, and monitoring
systems for newly issued securities; and (iii) to improve the market trading, clearing, settlement and
payment systems.

         By April 1994, the Bank had reached the decision to design two separate operations. The Final
Executive Project Summary had thus narrowed the original scope to a Financial Markets TA Project and a
separate loan or guarantee (backstop) facility to encourage the issuance of new longer-term financial
instruments . It was also assumed that a subsequent Social Security Reform project would provide the bulk
            5


of Bank support for pension reform. Bank staff also recommended a flexible design for the TA project that
could be adjusted according to evolving market needs. The TA project qualified for streamlined processing
and was thus subject to a single RVP review after appraisal, which was approved on April 29, 1994. In
retrospect, given the changes, additional reviews might have been more optimal given the interim
processing delays.

         The FEPS for the TA had emphasized the capital markets components in terms of upgrading of
securities markets regulations, policy formulation for capital markets, and promotion of new financial
instruments. In addition, the project contained a Social Security reform component to address the needs of
the growing private pension funds; and another component dealing with competition policy and anti-trust
enforcement capabilities.

         A Japanese Grant in 1994 for the amount of US$980,000 was utilized to fund studies and advisory
services to assist with the preparation of the project . However, during the second half of 1994 preparation
                                                      6


of the TA project was unexpectedly put on hold as a change in government brought new appointments to
the Vice-Ministry of Finance with a different view on the need for the project. With the approval of the
Grant, the Government did not have the sense of urgency to proceed with the TA project since the Grant
was already providing financial support for technical assistance activities. At the same time, Colombia's
successful venture into the international capital markets had noticeably eased the country's international
liquidity position at that time, thus reducing its need for Bank funding. The favorable terms obtained on
new money raised in the international financial markets by the Government at that time also cast doubt on
the need for a capital markets backstop-style financing operation as envisioned in the FEPS. Fortunately,
the Japanese grant, which was originally intended to assist in the preparation of a broader financial and
capital markets loan, continued to support research and consulting work that eventually proved essential in
finalizing the design of the TA project.

         Between the time of the FEPS and when the project was re-started in 1996, project design benefited
from extensive work of the Capital Markets Mission in October 1994, which was financed by the Japanese
Grant. While the principal conclusions of the Capital Markets Mission echoed the Bank's earlier analysis
in the Financial Sector Review (1993), the Mission report contained more concrete recommendations for
improving the functioning of the capital markets that were incorporated into the final design of the TA
project. The studies confirmed that capital market regulations needed to be upgraded in order to promote
the issuance of securities, and that alternative mechanisms to introduce new financial instruments needed to
be explored .
            7




                                                      - 5 -

         In its final form, the Project became quite ambitious. The main objective of the Project, to foster
more effective financial intermediation of resources, covered a very broad spectrum of activities. The
project thus incorporated a wide range of technical activities addressing issues of financial intermediation,
institution building of regulatory agencies, social security reform, and capital markets development. Some
of the specific objectives by themselves would have been justified as stand alone projects to improve the
performance of the capital markets. The project involved 11 beneficiary entities (Department of Financial
Regulation, Department of Public Credit, Department of Social Security, the Financial Intelligence Unit, all
at the Ministry of Finance, FOGAFIN, the Superintendencies of Banking, Cooperatives, Corporations,
Industry & Commerce, Securities, and the Treasury Department of the Capital District of Bogotá). The
design of six specific objectives spread across the 11 beneficiary entities resulted in numerous project
activities that put a heavy load on the borrower's PCU implementation and the Bank's supervision
capacities.

         The social security reform component, which had originally been considered as a separate
operation, was merged into the TA project. By the time the project reached its final design, the reform of
the Social Security system and the development of the private pension funds were already entering the
fourth year, thus diminishing the need for Bank support of reforms in that sector though the work on
quantifying and managing the outstanding public pension liabilities remained critical.

         Project monitoring indicators were supposed to gauge the impact of project output on improved
financial intermediation. Quantitative indicators such as market capitalization, volume of trading activity
and growth of government securities were established as parameters for market performance. However,
these indicators were very broad, making it difficult to isolate the specific TA contributions, when in most
instances the outcomes would not be measurable until after a sufficiently long period of time to allow for
adequate institutional development. A more appropriate approach would have been to specify narrower
"micro-level" indicators such as the volume of repo operations, placements of securitized assets, and the
publishing of market pricing information.

         One year after the project was made effective on October 21, 1997, Colombia entered a period of
severe economic and financial turbulence, posing another challenge to a Project that had already been
subjected to numerous transformations during its design. Colombia's vulnerability to external shocks had
intensified as a result of increased domestic violence and uncertainty regarding the future path of the
internal conflict; a worsening of market sentiment towards Latin America; problems in Venezuela, the
second largest market for Colombia's non-traditional exports; and an uncertain outlook for the US
economy, Colombia's main trading partner. After decades of consistently solid growth and prudent
economic management, Colombia entered its worst recession in over sixty years during 1998-1999. GDP
declined 4.2 percent in 1999. This downturn in turn set off a financial sector crisis. The fiscal deficit surged
due to the decline in economic activity and to government measures to stabilize the financial system through
the assumption of failed banks' liabilities. Excluding the one-time effects of the privatizations, the public
sector deficit had risen from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1993 to 4.1 percent in 1999 (see Economic Indicators
Table 1 in the Annex).

         As a result of the economic / financial blowout the Government had to focus its priorities once
again on the stabilization of financial intermediaries with less attention to issues of capital markets
development. Nevertheless, the capital markets initiatives supported by the project were still considered to
be highly relevant in terms of the Government's medium-term strategy to support the capital markets. By
providing technical assistance to financial sector regulatory agencies, the Bank's TA loan also played a
useful role during this particularly difficult period in Colombia. In response to Government concerns about
the health of the financial sector, the Bank appropriately amended the Project Agreement in October 2000


                                                       - 6 -

to include the deposit insurance agency (FOGAFIN) and the Superintendency of Companies (SS) as
beneficiary agencies and to support their efforts to re-establish financial stability.

Design of the Principal Components of the Project:

I. Design of the Component to Develop the Financial Markets into a More Efficient Intermediation
Channel

         This component was designed to address the need to enhance trading information, clearing, and
settlement systems as well as new trading instruments; to promote the market for public sector debt
securities; and to assist institutional investors reach a bigger market presence. The principal activities in
this component were supported by recommendations made by the Capital Markets Mission study.
According to the Technical Annex, the bulk of the resources under this component, US$1,237,000 (6.2
percent of project costs) was to be channeled to the SV and to the Financial Regulation Unit at MoF
(DGRF), with important participation by the Department of Public Sector Debt (DGCP). The upgrading of
market trading information and the development of the public sector debt securities market were highly
relevant factors for the efficiency of capital markets. At the same time, the sub-component to promote more
trading in repos was an important linkage from the capital to the money market which helped to improve
liquidity in the financial system.

II. Design of the Component to Strengthen Policy Formulation, Regulation, and Supervision Capacity
in the Financial Sector

         This component focused on the institutional strengthening of the principal regulatory and policy
making agencies in the financial sector, including a sub-component aimed at harmonizing market
regulations across regulatory entities. The activities under this component received the largest amount of
project resources, or 22 percent of the total. The DGRF and the Superintendency of Cooperatives (SES)
were relatively new organizations in need of institutional support. The SB and SV sub-components were
also highly relevant in view of their pivotal role in the orderly development of the financial markets.

III. Design of the Component to Increase the Supply of Securities and the Availability of other
Financial Instruments

         According to the recommendations of the Capital Markets Mission, increasing the supply of
securities was one of the key strategies for market development. Appropriately, most of the resources in
this component were earmarked for the SV. With respect to the review and analysis of legal changes that
would encourage firms to raise funds in the capital markets, greater focus may have been achieved if this
component had adopted some of the specific recommendations made by the Capital Markets Mission. The
promotion of new financial instruments was a worthwhile initiative, although some consideration may have
been given to the existing timeline of the Colombian capital markets, in the sense that venture capital funds
and derivates were not yet ready for take off. On the other hand, during the early design phase of this
project, the Bank picked up on the great potential for securitization of assets, which was strongly endorsed
by the Capital Markets Mission. This was truly an innovative and highly promising instrument for which
this Project went on to become one of the principal sponsors of securitization of residential mortgages.

IV. Design of the Component to Consolidate the Reform of the Social Security System

         At the time of the FEPS this component was envisioned as a support of the Government's pension
reforms instituted in 1993 with the creation of the private pension system. The initial design of this


                                                       - 7 -

component included regulatory initiatives to assist in the development of the then newly created pension
management companies, AFPs. By the time Project design had been re-started in 1996 and its approval in
1997, the initial phase of Social Security reform had been completed. The initial strategy in 1993 had in
fact been to design a separate Bank operation in support of Social Security reforms and the development of
the new pension system. In view of the successful start of the new pension reforms, it was subsequently
decided to append this component to the Project and to focus on the estimation of the Government's pension
liabilities that had accrued to workers affiliated with the old Social Security system.

          The Bank's rationale for including this component was that successful development of capital
markets in emerging market economies hinged on the growth of the pension system. The creation of private
sector pension funds has generated substantial demand for securities, thus boosting market capitalization. It
was felt that Colombia would follow a similar path, and that any activity in this area would be considered
relevant for the Project's objectives. While this analysis was valid, from a design perspective, this
component added to the complexity of implementation.

V. Design of the Component to Develop a System of Financial Intelligence to Control Corrupt and
Fraudulent Practices

          After the design of the project was re-started in 1996, this component became an important
condition for Board presentation. The goal was to put in place effective mechanisms to detect illegal
practices in the financial system, and in particular money laundering. The system architecture consisted of
an elaborate information network to compile intelligence based on market transactions within the financial
system. The focal point of the system was the Unidad de Informacion y Análisis Financiero (UIAF),
which was to be established by law as one of the conditions for effectiveness.

VI. Design of the Component to Develop Competition Enhancement and Anti-Trust Policy Capacity

          As a result of a major restructuring within the Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (SIC) in
1992, the Government had created a Delegatura for the promotion of competition. The new entity
presented both manpower and infrastructure deficiencies. Bank staff saw this as an opportunity to enhance
the institutional framework of the SIC. This was supported by the Financial Sector Review (1993) which
had concluded that there was market concentration in the financial system. On the other hand, it is not
apparent how the improvement in the capacity of the SIC to support competition and pursue anti-trust
policies would benefit the effectiveness of financial intermediation of resources. The finding by the
Financial Sector Review regarding the existence of market concentration in the financial system by itself
was not sufficient to conclude that there were restrictions to market entry. In fact, it has been demonstrated
that small financial intermediaries can operate profitably in a market where a few large institutions
dominate in terms of total system deposits.

3.4 Revised Components:

          The severity of the economic / financial crisis during 1998-1999 and the Government's need to
focus on immediate challenges to the financial system heightened Project risks. In short, capital markets
could not develop in a crisis environment. New institutional development needs were created as regulatory
agencies raced to put in place new mechanisms to steer financial institutions back to a path of sustainable
growth. While the crisis posed new challenges to the Project, it did not alter the relevance of the overall
objective of fostering more effective financial intermediation of resources, in fact, the Project acted as a
remedial instrument during this rough period. The component to strengthen regulation and supervision
proved very helpful in dealing with financial sector problems, and the support of the new SES was



                                                       - 8 -

instrumental in helping the agency gear up to manage an area that was particularly vulnerable to financial
risks.

         The crisis environment was ably managed by the Government while juggling the commitments
under the Project, some of which were supportive of the stabilization efforts. Nevertheless, the Government
approached the Bank to request the addition of two sub-components under the regulation and supervision
component and another under the public sector debt securities sub-component. The Project was thus duly
amended on October 6, 2000 to include the participation of FOGAFIN and the Superintendency of
Corporations (SS) in support of supervision, and of the Department of Finance of the Capital District
(Bogotá) as part of a debt issuance program. Support for FOGAFIN was related to its efforts to resolve
insolvent financial institutions, and in the case of SS, their participation dealt with the Economic
Emergency Law of 1999 that had assigned certain responsibilities to that agency in the restructuring of
debtor firms with significant financial problems. By circumventing a formal bankruptcy proceeding, the
measure to involve SS as a mediator in corporate restructurings was expected to provide some relief to the
banks from asset quality problems to the extent that these firms had borrowed from the banks and the
restructuring program allowed them to regain their financial health. Even though the crisis environment
justified the inclusion of these new beneficiary entities in the Project, it did increase the implementation
burden in an already crowded field of participants. For this reason, the design of a less complex more
focused project from the start would have resulted in greater flexibility to add new sub-components during
implementation as circumstances required.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory. Overall Project design was relevant in terms of the
government's development objectives and the need to support the financial and capital markets. The Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (Report P6070, discussed by the Board on December 16, 1993) considered
the issues addressed by the project as critical to the success of the overall economic reform program that
Colombia had embarked upon. But considering the complexity of its design, the Project concept is deemed
marginally satisfactory. On the other hand, the Implementing Agency's technical capacity and established
track record in successfully managing similar projects was considered a decisive factor in proceeding with
the Project. As explained in an earlier section, sector work was extensive; first, in the form of the Bank's
Financial Sector Review (1993), and second, through the report issued by the Capital Markets Mission
(1996).

         Entry assessment by the Quality Assurance Group rated the project satisfactory. Project design,
institutional capacity, implementation, risk, and sustainability were all rated satisfactory. Bank inputs and
processes were rated marginal due to a low efficiency factor: a long time for preparation (5.5 years) and
elevated costs; and to weakness in terms of peer review process. As explained earlier, Project preparation
was interrupted during a two year period, thus explaining the appearance of a long gestation period. On the
other hand, more reviews of the final design of the Project may have raised appropriate concerns about the
complexity of the Project. In the final analysis, this TA Project could have been designed as separate
independent operations as had originally been proposed, although this would have required Government
demand as well, something which was not clearly evident; and would have required splitting up the project,
something which would likely not have received endorsement by Bank management given other competing
interests in the lending program.




                                                       - 9 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

          The outcome of this Project is considered very satisfactory in terms of its contribution to the
overall objective of fostering more effective financial intermediation of resources and a more efficient
operation of the markets. This rating is based on the contribution of the Project to the Borrower's skills in
enhancing market efficiencies, in strengthening supervisory skills, in measuring the public sector's pension
liabilities, and in introducing new financial instruments. The combined effect of these initiatives is
consistent with a positive impact on the overall objective.

          If the outcome of this Project is measured against the initial monitoring indicators, then the impact
would be considered marginal. As explained in the previous section, the quantitative indicators of Project
outcome in this case were too broad and ambitious. It would be very difficult to trace the specific
contributions of this Project to overall market capitalization, volume of trading activity, and growth of
institutional investors from a myriad of macro-economic and political factors. At the same time, the
onslaught of the 1998-1999 economic / financial crisis made these indicators somewhat irrelevant. The
successful outcome of the Project is thus attributed to the development of institutional capacity mainly at
DGRF, SB, DGSS, SS, UIAF, and FOGAFIN, which has provided the market skills to achieve more
effective financial intermediation, and to the growth of certain types of market activities such as
securitization of mortgages and repo transactions in the money market. Using a more realistic standard the
Project is considered as successful.

          Government budget restrictions did have an adverse impact on the Project. Government-imposed
austerity measures to reign-in the fiscal deficit arising from the recession as well as the fiscal costs
associated with the bail-out of the banks, led to a request by the Borrower for partial cancellation of Project
funding. Since all Project activities were undertaken by agencies of the Government, the individual
expenditure items associated with each activity of the Project had to be presented for approval as part of
the national budget each year and subject to the same scrutiny as all other items in the budget. Government
budget restrictions in turn were applied to all line items in the budget, regardless of their financing
arrangements. Thus the purchase of computer equipment financed by a Bank loan would be subject to the
same budgetary restrictions as any other expenditure item that was normally financed out of general
budgetary resources. The initial request for partial cancellation of US$5.5 million was made in September
2001, including a request for extension of the closing date to 2003. In September 2003, the Borrower
requested an additional cancellation of US$1.26 million. After deducting the canceled amounts, net
disbursements under the Bank loan amounted to US$8.2 million, or 55 percent of the original Loan.
Notwithstanding these cutbacks, the satisfactory evaluation in this ICR already takes into account the
shortfall in project funding and recognizes the successful outcome based on the smaller disbursed amounts.
This successful outcome shows that a simpler more focused Project would have been more effective. The
Government's strong commitment to the policy reforms supported by this Project, as evidenced by its
decision to fund the affected activities from other sources, also supports the positive outcome.

          At the same time, this Project was implemented during a period in which the Bank approved a
structural reform loan in the financial sector, the FSAL (1999). The successful outcome of this loan, based
on the corresponding ICR, is in some way linked to the institutional development contributions of this
Project, since the reforms supported by the adjustment loan dealt with some of the components of this
Project.

          Overall, the contributions made by the project in improving the operations of the financial markets



                                                       - 10 -

in Colombia were strategically very relevant and responded to the priorities and changing economic and
market conditions of Colombia. The sector impact of the project, given these conditions, was broad and
substantial.

         The outcome of the six specific Project objectives is outlined below.

(i) Outcome of the Component to Develop Financial markets into a more efficient intermediation
channel

         The outcome of this component is considered satisfactory in terms of the upgrading of market
pricing information and the enhancement of the public sector debt securities. By introducing greater
transparency in market clearing transactions and increasing market liquidity for fixed income securities,
these initiatives have improved market efficiencies. The principal outcomes of this component included:

         Implementation of an institutional mechanism for daily on-line reporting of market
         transactions which has enhanced the availability of credible pricing information in the fixed
         income securities market and improved market transparency in a sector which has begun
         setting the basis for the growth of the capital markets.

         Development and implementation of new regulations for the primary and secondary markets
         for public sector debt securities ­ coupled with the institutional systems, this has increased
         market liquidity and strengthened the intermediation of this market by defining the roles and
         accountabilities of market makers (e.g.: selected qualified banks) and involving a larger
         number of players with checks and balances, in this market.

         The upgrading of the public debt management function at the Treasury Department of the
         Municipal Capital District of Bogotá has contributed to more sophisticated debt management
         strategies by entities outside of the central government with consequent payoffs in terms of
         greater market interest in their issuance of securities. This has lead to greater diversification
         of funding sources and lower cost of debt, while initiating growth in a municipal bond market
         based on budget/fiscal performance of cities rather than on a sovereign guarantee.

(ii) Outcome of the Component to Strengthen Regulation and Supervision Capacity in the Financial
Sector

         The outcome of the Regulation and Supervision component is considered satisfactory. Selective
initiatives in this component included:

         The development of the DGRF (Directorate General of Financial Regulation) within the
         Ministry of Finance (MoF) was instrumental in consolidating the Financial Regulation making
         function within MoF and strengthening the Government's regulatory capacity as it should
         exist, i.e., a separate policy body from the supervisory function housed in the financial sector
         Superintendencies, and to ensure structural change consistent with the broader
         macroeconomic program of the Government.

         The SB's development of analytical banking models and training of supervisory staff , the
         SV's training on different securities market instruments and acquisition of hardware and
         software for better monitoring the market, and SS's development of analytical tools used in
         corporate restructurings combined with staff training at all three agencies, contributed to


                                                    - 11 -

         enhanced supervisory capacities including new regulatory frameworks and supporting
         technology tools to maintain improved oversight and early warning of sectoral developments,
         so as to prevent future weaknesses or insolvencies in the financial system which might have
         systemic effects including cross-contamination with the corporate sector.

         By supporting the initial institutional development of the Superintendency of Cooperatives
         (SES) the Project helped to buttress the regulatory and supervisory capacity in an overlooked
         area of the financial system with widespread reach to the underserved population. In
         particular, while this sector did not constitute a large share of the financial system in terms of
         assets or deposits, it does cover a significant number of client/customers whose deposits need
         to be protected following the 1998 crisis, to avoid social and political disruption.

         The impact on Project outcome was limited by the less aggressive contributions from the Securities
Superindentency (SV) in the institutional development front. As mentioned earlier, SV slowed down
implementation and these delays compromised subsequent disbursements after ensuing government budget
cutbacks crystallized.

(iii) Outcome of the Component to Increase the Supply of Securities and Availability of other
Financial Instruments

         The outcome of the component to increase the supply of securities is considered highly
satisfactory. Two key initiatives were supported by this Project: the drafting of a new Securities Law,
which had not been considered as a possibility at the time of Project design, and to development of the
securitization of housing loans, which created an important new financial instrument with a strong market
potential. With respect to the regulatory environment, the original goal had been to upgrade regulations
affecting transactions in the securities markets; so the drafting of a new law went beyond the initial
expectations and served a very useful purpose in consolidating key capital market reforms within a
consistent framework. The principal outcomes in this component were:

         As a result of review and analysis of laws affecting the capital markets by DGRF and SV, new
         regulations were issued, and more importantly, the three stock exchanges in Colombia were
         merged into a single national exchange. Following that, a new Securities Law was drafted,
         which has been revised and is expected to be presented to Congress shortly. The changes
         introduced in the new version of the Securities Law will encourage and facilitate the issuance
         of securities in the market by reducing costly paperwork and fees, requiring minimum
         professional standards for operating a securities business, and implementing new corporate
         governance norms in the industry. The emergence of a larger capital market will eventually
         provide a parallel source of funding (besides only banks) for investment and growth in
         diversified industries wishing to reduce their cost of funding.

         The development of securitization of housing loans has been a major innovation in the
         Colombian financial system promoting the development of the capital markets and the supply
         of funds for new investment. The wide acceptance of this instrument in the market is a tribute
         to the vision of investment bankers who recognized its potential, to Government regulatory
         initiatives, in part supported by this Project, and to the good risk management practices of
         financial intermediaries. This market has helped banks diversify their otherwise concentrated
         credit portfolios while allowing institutional investors such as pension funds invest in more
         varied securities with acceptable risk ratings.




                                                      - 12 -

         The current version of the proposed Securities Law does not include the reorganization of the
regulatory agencies so as to expedite its approval by Congress. The issues of how many regulators are
needed and the relationship between the different agencies has been left as a pending issue for a second
generation reform.

(iv) Outcome of the Component to Consolidate the Reform of the Social Security System

         The outcome of the Social Security and pension component was satisfactory. Strong Government
commitment to reforms in this sector was instrumental in a very successful implementation. The activities
supported by this Project were follow up reforms, since the private pension system had already moved
along the learning curve by the time this loan was approved in 1997. The principal outcomes in this
component were:

         The development of a methodology to measure pension liabilities under the old
         defined-benefits Social Security system based on regularly updated work histories of
         affiliates, served to establish the value and size of the Government's pension liability. This
         initiative supported by the Project represents a key information pillar in the new
         defined-contribution public / private pension system that enabled the government to regulate
         the parameters of the public system and its benefits, and encourage more active participation
         by affiliates to support the provision of pension services by the private sector while reducing
         State liabilities.

         Institutional strengthening of the new Social Security Department in MoF and the new
         Directorate of Pensions in the SB was instrumental in providing the institutional capacity to,
         respectively, monitor and regulate the growing liabilities in the decentralized public pension
         sector (e.g.: municipalities and Departments) and enforce controls to reduce them, and to
         monitor the potential investment, liquidity and maturity risks in the fast emerging private
         pension system. These aspects are contributing to the sustainable provision of long term
         welfare to the retired and to be retired population.

         While this component was very successful in terms of implementation, the impact on outcome is
only indirect, in the sense that by having normalized its financial obligations under the old Social Security
system the Government will facilitate the growth of the pension funds, albeit under a long term transition
program.

(v) Outcome of the Component to Develop a System of Financial Intelligence to Detect Corrupt and
Fraudulent Practices

         The outcome of the component to develop a system of financial intelligence is considered
satisfactory. This component contributed to the following successful outcome:

         The creation of the UIAF with a sophisticated intelligence gathering mechanism and a
         national mapping system linked to suspicious transaction cross-links, has centralized
         Government surveillance of illegal activities through the financial system ­ such as money
         laundering, and thus provided a more effective institutional arrangement to successfully
         enforce the laws. An effective financial intelligence system has helped to identify irregular
         financial transactions and refer them to the Attorney General's Office for criminal
         investigation, many such activities detected having been conducted on behalf of the drug trade
         and insurgency financing. This outcome has incrementally provided more confidence in


                                                    - 13 -

         certain sectors in the financial system so that legitimate investors can be assured of long term
         financial solvency and ethics of financial institutions.

         While the sustainability of this outcome is likely, its continued improvement could become
vulnerable to budgetary shortfalls given the ever increasing electronic information processing and
equipment upgrades needed, and given the magnitude of the task that remains to be completed. While
Colombia's UIAF is one of the most advanced in the developing world, continued government commitment
and donor support will be required to maintain this effort. This situation needs to be monitored.




(vi) Outcome of the Component to Develop Competition Enhancement and Anti-Trust Policy
Capacity

         The outcome of the component to develop competition and anti-trust policies is considered
marginally satisfactory. While the implementation of this component was satisfactory, it is unclear that the
outcome of this component will have a palpable impact on the effective financial intermediation of
resources8. This component contributed to the following outcome:

Improved institutional capacity through the restructuring of the SIC enabled this entity to more
effectively comply with the following responsibilities: i) the development of anti-monopoly
competition policies; ii) the review of pending mergers and acquisitions; and iii) the resolution of a
backlog of cases involving anti-competitive practices. The latter occurred mostly in the real sector
where price fixing and monopolistic industry behavior was investigated although it did not
significantly affect financial sector activity.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         Despite the implementation challenges arising from the complex design of the Project and the
fallout from the economic / financial crisis, continuity of Bank supervision and the technical capacity of the
Implementing Agency as well as most of the beneficiary entities kept the Project on a productive track up to
the closing date. The Project was managed by three Task Managers; the first was responsible for the design
of the Project, the second took on project supervision in its first year, and the third assumed management of
the Project throughout the larger part of the implementation period. Government officials interviewed for
this evaluation, both at the Implementing Agency and the beneficiary entities were appreciative of the fact
that they dealt with the same Task Manager during most of the implementation of this complex project. In
the case of relatively new Government entities supported by the Project, their lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement policies resulted in implementation delays. Project supervision in this regard helped to keep
the process rolling; although with outstretched resources due to the large number of sub-components. At the
same time, the Borrower's strong commitment to the reforms that were supported by this Project, as well as
their technical capacity for implementation, were instrumental in achieving their committed tasks. Perhaps
in another setting this Project would have encountered more protracted implementation barriers.

         One of the initiatives undertaken by Bank staff during implementation was to re-focus the project
into narrower areas of output in order to reduce the overly-complex structure of Project activities. This
reformulation did not affect the objectives or the content of the individual components, but rather grouped
them into more manageable clusters. The re-focus of the project outputs were arranged according to the




                                                     - 14 -

following categories :9




1.       Development and implementation of various financial sector legislative projects including the
design of the new Securities Law, the legislative approval and issuance of the necessary regulations
pertaining to the new Law governing the Financial System, development and approval of the new Housing
and Housing Finance Law which corrected some of the past issues related to mortgage rate indexing and
authorized mortgage securitization, a new Social Security Law capping benefits and making adjustments to
contributions, and the corporate sector law governing procedures, auditing and negotiation of out of court
corporate debt restructurings.

2.       Implementation of an integrated system for monitoring banking sector risks at the individual
institutional level. This was developed as a CAMEL based rating system by the SB and was implemented
in two phases: The first phase covered a credit risk system used for evaluating and classifying the portfolio
quality of supervised banks. The second phase implemented a market risk system used to quantify potential
loss exposure from market risks such as interest rates, maturity mismatches and currency exposure. All
these modules were implemented in an automated computerized platform which received data ;

3.       Implementation of a new bank resolution process by FOGAFIN which involved the development of
regulations and procedures for permitting the bank restructuring/deposit insurance agency to resolve
insolvent banks through the progressive dismounting of its assets and liabilities with an orderly transfer of
viable parts of its balance sheet to healthy acquiring banks. This assisted in reducing the cost of bank
failure resolution by avoiding outright liquidation and its implied immediate indemnification of all insured
depositors;

4.       The Corporation/Companies Superintendency (SS) developed a more effective mechanism to track
and monitor via computerized records those companies participating in the corporate restructuring program
administered by the SS and resolution reached on debt restructurings with creditors;

5.       The quantification and reconciliation of the Government's public pension liabilities was done, and
from this exercise was implemented a statutory financial reserve fund established as the FONPET which
received both central government and decentralized government contributions to cover the respective
obligations to public employees. At the same time, policy options were developed to increase the flexibility
of the investment regime and the reference portfolio for private pension funds, so as to augment their long
term returns and attract more affiliates to the privately funded system;

6.       The regulatory framework as well as the institutional modality and transactional operating
procedures needed to activate the securitization of mortgage portfolios, was established, including for
securitization of other types of assets.

         The above activities helped to consolidate the remaining objectives under the Project. The revised
sub-components were consistent with the original six specific objectives. As it turned out, they represented
some of the more successful elements of the Project. Nevertheless, it would have been helpful to have
documented the rationale for the changes and to have established a more explicit linkage between the
reformulated output and the original components.

         In another evaluation, the Quality Assurance Group rated the Project supervision as satisfactory10.
However, the report made several recommendations for further improvement, mainly that more quantitative
indicators should have been used to gauge implementation progress, that loan proceeds could have been



                                                      - 15 -

used more productively if the SV had not held up the disbursement process, that supervision should have
monitored the evolution of specific components more closely; and that the re-focus of Project activities
should have been formalized as an addendum or amendment. As discussed in the earlier section on design,
the original quantitative indicators for this Project were much too broad and unrealistic in terms of the
project's leverage for achieving them, so that more specific and practical "micro" indicators would have
been preferred. In this regard, perhaps some of these alternative quantitative indicators could have been
identified at the time that Project activities were reformulated and simplified, though this was done to some
extent with the specification of major expected project outcomes and outputs as documented in the mission
Aide Memoires.

         While fiscal problems caused by the economic / financial crisis was the main factor behind the
partial cancellation of the Project, there were also implementation delays by beneficiary agencies due to
insufficient planning, slow internal budgetary processes, and a lack of familiarity with procurement
procedures. The SV, which had been assigned the biggest component of Project resources was in fact the
weakest in implementation, and thus delayed disbursements. One of the stumbling blocks was SV's lack of
expertise in budget planning. Originally SV had been assigned about 17.5 percent of total Project costs. In
the end, the agency only utilized 18.0 percent of its original project allocation, or 4.7 percent of total actual
Project costs. This compares to total Project expenditures relative to originally budgeted amounts of 59
percent due to the public sector budget cutbacks and the subsequent cancellation of funding. More attention
to institutional capacity in procurement matters at SV during Project preparation would have helped to
design a more realistic implementation plan.

         The principal outputs of the Project by component are summarized below.

I. Implementation / Output of the Component to Develop Financial markets into a more efficient
intermediation channel

         The actions undertaken in this component were led by the public debt management unit at MoF
(DGCP), the General Directorate for Financial Regulation (DGRF), the Treasury Department of the
Capital District Government (Bogotá) (SHD); and the Superintendency of Securities (SV). Some of the key
outputs were:

·        Upgraded actuarial, analytical and software tools used in the management of public sector debt and
planning for its issuance schedule. (DGCP).
·        Definition of and implementation of strategies for raising debt in the international financial markets
and in developing relationships with investment banks (DGCP).
·        The General Directorate for Financial Regulation of the Technical-Vice Ministry of MoF
developed several economic models addressing developments and cycles in the financial system and its
linkages with the performance of the rest of the economy.
·        The Stock Exchanges (Bolsas) were integrated and the unified exchange notably improved the
reporting of market information, particularly the publishing of a daily price vector for all traded securities.
·        A regulatory and operational framework was developed for the repurchase (repo) market including
the implementation of a Master-Repo agreement which contributed to significant growth in short term
market transactions backed by collateral.
·        Within the Treasury Department of the Capital District Government of Bogotá (SHD) a
methodology was developed including training, to evaluate and manage financial risks and asset / liability
matching. Under this component, a risk management unit was established within the Office that developed
investment and debt management policies. The new entity successfully implemented a comprehensive risk



                                                       - 16 -

management process, which has significantly enhanced the debt profile of the Capital District and initiated
the issuance market for municipal securities not backed by any sovereign guarantee. The development of
financial risk management methodologies and sound risk practices has enhanced portfolio management of
the treasury and debt departments.
·        Given the diversity of mutual fund instruments in Colombia's capital markets, regulatory norms
governing the supervision of mutual funds and harmonized capital requirements were issued. In addition,
disclosure requirements and fact sheets indicating market and credit risk parameters have been
implemented. A similar initiative is in progress with respect to the classification of pension funds.

         In addition to the projects described above, the SV was active in disseminating information to
investors, notably through its own website. In order to implement some of these initiatives Project funds
were utilized to purchase computers and software.

         The Project supported ongoing work in the development of the local market for fixed income
government securities. The promotion of the public securities market benefited from the contribution of
several consultants financed through the Project. Technical support was provided for the development of a
Dutch auction mechanism based on the analysis of market characteristics. The market enhancement
included the identification of market-makers as well as a secondary tier of market participants comprised of
securities dealers and financial intermediaries. In 1999, the DGCP consolidated the regulatory framework
for market-makers. Analytical work on the estimation of a zero coupon yield curve benefited from Project
technical input. The construction of a yield curve has contributed to longer-term financing of the public
sector, improved management of maturities, credibility of a government debt issuance strategy, and to
greater market transparency especially in the valuation of private sector fixed income securities. The data
points of the yield curve are reported on a daily basis by the stock exchange ­ the current time horizon goes
up to ten years on a daily frequency.

         The upgrading of the debt management unit at SHD represented a cultural shift in terms of the
focus on cost optimization with explicit risk factors. The reorganization of the debt management unit
included new functions including the creation of a debt management committee charged with implementing
the newly established asset / liability policies. A portfolio model was developed to identify target
parameters in terms of duration and foreign exchange exposure of liabilities as well as optimum strategies
for the investment of funds. Credibility gained through this new risk management approach has enabled
SHD to issue longer maturity debt instruments and has contributed to greater liquidity in the secondary
market for these securities.

II. Implementation / Output of the Component to Strengthen Regulation and Supervision Capacity in
the Financial Sector

         This component involved a number of beneficiary entities including: DGRF, SB, SV, SS, SES, and
FOGAFIN. Initially, it was assigned the largest share of resources under the Project. Implementation
delays in this component were associated principally with the overall restrictions in the fiscal accounts
which equally affected loan resources assigned within the national budget as well as counterpart resources.
The principal outputs included:

·        Technical consulting support in the drafting of law to reform the financial system including
increased capital requirements and new authorized methods for bank resolution and/or restructuring, and
associated regulations (DGRF).
·        Development of an advanced computerized credit and market risk system with CAMEL rating



                                                      - 17 -

categories for use in banking supervision and assessment of bank weaknesses, and strengthened banking
supervision through applying bank rating methodologies during on-site inspections and off site analysis
(SB).
·        Development of a case-management methodology for the SS to respond on a timely basis to firms
seeking to restructure debts as a result of financial problems, training in creditor/debtor negotiation and
compromise-seeking methods, and implementation of an audit process to monitor restructuring recovery
plans of companies having completed negotiations with creditors (SS).
·        Strengthening of the supervision of corporations through the upgrade of technology (computers and
software) to analyze company financials and project emerging trends and debt sustainability. Information
is received electronically from subject companies. The Superintendency of Corporations developed a
financial database and risk rating matrix for registered companies that will assist in monitoring potential
financial weakness through the establishment of a quantitative index of financial performance (SS).
·        Balance sheet valuations performed on the following banks: Superior, Selfin, Union Colombiana,
Colpatria, Interbanco, Coltefinanciera and Credito through the hiring of expert consulting firms, in this
case the firm McKinsey & Co. was utilized (FOGAFIN).
·        Provided training to FOGAFIN staff on comparative systems for designing and operating deposit
insurance schemes (FOGAFIN).
·        Provided consultancy and equipment support to establish the new Superintendency of Cooperatives
and establish a database of cooperatives subject to financial supervision as well as the development of
prudential norms to regulate this sector. A comprehensive census of cooperatives was conducted
nationwide in order to compile financial and legal information as well as operational statistics. Consultant
support was utilized to implement a strategy to close and liquidate over 900 cooperatives which did not
meet the financial viability criteria.(SES)

         As a newly created entity within MoF, the DGRF made significant contributions to the drafting of
regulations and new legislation through research and legal work supported by the Project. DGRF actively
participated not only in the Financial System Law, but also in the drafting of the Housing Finance Law as
well as in the Law for Corporate Debt Restructuring. Project funds supported the hiring of consultants
which resulted in the identification of numerous regulations to support the implementation of these laws.
This analysis included the evaluation of the new indexation scheme for residential mortgages imposed by a
ruling of the Constitutional Court. DGRF was also involved in the drafting of the new Securities Law for
which the Project also supplied expert consultants with strong knowledge of international best practices.

         The issue of harmonization of regulatory norms across markets did not gain attention until the past
couple of years, with policy reforms supported by a new Programmatic Financial Sector Loan (2003). The
creation of a securities valuation committee in 2002, with participation from MoF, SB, and SV, was
influential in defining uniform standards for securities valuation.

         SB's supervisory capacity benefited from numerous Project financed activities. One of the
international consultants assisted in the design of a standard bank examination manual following the
implementation of the credit risk and CAMEL rating methodologies. An initial attempt at implementing a
policy for consolidated supervision consisted of a study of financial groups in Colombia and the
development of a database representing forty financial holdings. Without the Project resources, SB would
have been behind in terms of supervisory standards since a number of the activities supported by the
Project could not have been financed through normal budgetary appropriations.

         The development of a financial data base and performance indexes by the SS for the corporate
sector, has enhanced the monitoring capacity of that Superintendency. A system was designed to



                                                      - 18 -

accumulate financial information regularly provided by registered corporations to create solvency
indicators. The development of this methodology was financed by the Project. Based on numerous ratios
and other financial indicators the model generates an overall quantitative index of financial performance for
approximately 7,400 medium to large firms which could have an impact on the banking system if their
debts defaulted.

         The Project provided much needed funding for the establishment of the Cooperatives SES which
had been created by Law 454 of June 1998. The principal contributions consisted of funds to develop the
administrative structure of SES, to support the development of a census of cooperatives which identified
6,484 existent entities. Several research projects were financed to perform analysis of the sector and its
financial viability. Funds were also used to purchase supplies and equipment. Bank support was
instrumental in this area, although in view of the magnitude of the task and the resource needs of SES in
supervising so many cooperatives the Bank and the Government might have considered a bigger allocation
to this sub-component of the Project.

III. Implementation / Output of the Component to Increase the Supply of Securities and Availability
of other Financial Instruments

         The goal of this component was to facilitate the issuance of securities in the market and to
introduce new market instruments to enhance the investment menu available to investors. The extensive
work done to upgrade and simplify the regulations dealing with the registration of new securities led to the
conclusion that a more productive approach was to draft a new Securities Law to set forth a more enabling
framework. However, the first version of the proposed legislation contained several controversial features
that undermined its passage through Congress. The obstacles could have been surmounted if a wider
representation of stakeholders had been consulted during the drafting stage. In the meantime, the
Government has modified the proposed Law to resolve the initial objections and expects to resubmit it to
the Congress by end 2004. Due to divided views on the subject, the new version of the Securities Law still
leaves open a future question regarding the role and possible integration of the principal regulatory agencies
(SB, and SV) in the supervision of the capital markets. This issue has been postponed to a future revision
to the Securities Law, once the Government is able to achieve a consensus regarding the role of the
regulatory agencies. This underscores the complexity of making changes to the legal framework and the
need for greater focus on the political process in designing effective policy reforms. International experts
differ on the best approach to regulating the capital markets, thus it is crucial to have a good appreciation
of the political environment and its receptivity to revising existing laws in order to reach a successful
outcome. Reforms cannot be solely dictated only by what is considered international best practice,
particularly when country specific environments can differ in both the legal and operating framework.

         One of the most important innovations in the financial system of Colombia has been the
securitization of mortgage loans. The development of this instrument benefited from work undertaken by
the Project. One of the pivotal factors was the vision developed by market participants relative to the strong
potential for securitization as well as the balanced incentives provided by the Government. The Project
supported the development of the technical tools and analytical models used in the design of the
securitization business.

         On the other hand, little interest materialized in the development of the derivatives market and
venture capital funds, even though these were highlighted as significant capital markets initiatives in the
Project description. One lesson from this experience is that the introduction of new financial instruments
needs to be market-driven. In the case of securitization, there was a large pool of residential mortgages held
by banks which in turn were looking to shift some of this risk out of their portfolios, thus making


                                                      - 19 -

residential mortgages a natural candidate for securitization. In the case of derivatives such as futures and
options, there was insufficient market interest due to a lack of incentives to use such instruments to reduce
risk given existing bank regulations requiring reserves against such risks, to insufficient market liquidity in
the underlying instruments, and to competing instruments such as the UVR indexed bonds which already
provided a useful tool for the management and pricing of interest rate risk. The experience of this Project
shows that the introduction of new financial instruments should be based on the operating market business
environment and "gap" areas in risk management, rather than an idealized analysis of what a modernized
market structure should look like.

         The principal outputs in this component included:

·        Preparation of a full draft of a new Securities Law which included innovative features such as
harmonizing the mutual/investment funds industry, consistent guidelines for valuation of securities,
corporate governance norms for management, auditors, Board members and employees of companies,
rationalized procedures for the issuance of securities on the market, and qualification standards for industry
professionals or new entrants. (DGRF, SV)
·        The issuance of regulations for the structure, valuation and trading of mortgage-backed securities
developed under the project, based on the new legal framework established under the Housing Finance Law
(SV).
·        Supervision procedures established to monitor the operation and risk management of new private
securitization firms authorized in the Colombian housing and asset backed market financial markets (SV).
·        Promotion and development of the interest rate and currency swap and hedge markets and listing of
such instruments on the stock exchange. Although, as discussed above, these instruments were not utilized
as expected, the regulatory and operating framework for them was established.

         The Project laid the foundation on which a successful securitization business was built.
Titulizadora Colombiana, the first Colombian Securitization firm, was established in 2001 and has already
issued four mortgage-backed securities in the market. Most of the investors have been financial
intermediaries, thus providing them with a marketable asset as a substitute for a residential mortgage
portfolio which was otherwise not a tradable instrument.

IV. Implementation / Output of the Component to Consolidate Social Security / Pension Reform

         At the time of the first round of Social Security reforms and prior to project initiation, the public
sector pension system was segmented, splintered across the states and municipalities, as well as the
Institute of Social Security, and the special public sector pension funds. This Project component was
designed to establish a centralized registry of workers with updated employment histories in order to
calculate the Government's total public pension liabilities, and thus plan on a funding strategy to ensure
solvency in financing the future cumulative benefits of each affiliate. The Directorate for Social Security
within MoF (DGSS), established under the Project, was well focused in terms of this task and
implementation was thus relatively smooth. This component fully utilized its initial budgeted allocation
(103 percent of the initial budgeted amount). Since implementation of the DGSS sub-component was up
and running from the initial period of the Project, and funds were committed early on, it was not affected by
the subsequent budget cutbacks.

         The principal outputs in this component included:

·        Compilation of a computerized historical data base of employment records for employees in



                                                     - 20 -

territorial entities and national agencies for the purpose of calculating their accumulated and future pension
benefits (DGSS).
·         Development of specialized software for installation in each participating agency in the central and
decentralized government sectors.Software programs were PASIVOCOL for the compilation of
information and PASIVONAL for the processing of data relating to individual labor/employment histories
(DGSS).
·         Developed a Single/Unique Registry system (the RUA)for public pension funds affiliates so as to
track the accumulation of benefits and payments thereof, without duplicating records or compensating
individuals erroneously. This system was also used to track payments made on behalf of affiliates health
and insurance benefits (DGSS).
·         Quantified the estimate of the Government's pension liability, covering both the pension liability of
the central government and the liability on behalf of decentralized (municipalities, Departments)
government jurisdictions and specialized public pension funds. The estimated central government actuarial
liability calculated, represented over 150 percent of GDP.
·         Created the FONPET, a Government established pension reserve fund, particularly to fund
the decentralized government sector pension liabilities and to centralize these under a common
institution. This also permitted the central government to demand contributions from the
decentralized jurisdictions to cover their accumulated pension liabilities and build up an adequate
FONPET reserve (DGSS).

          The compilation of employment histories and estimation of the Government's pension liability was
a major undertaking which taxed the full resources of the DGSS. The employment history survey involved
3,351 government entities comprised of municipalities, departmental governments (similar to provinces),
and other decentralized entities. DGSS developed questionnaires and associated software that was
distributed to all the agencies. Consultants were contracted to develop the actuarial methodology to
calculate the pension liabilities and train operators in the field. The first estimate completed revealed that
many entities did not have reserves to cover these commitments, and in fact those liabilities were much
higher than originally expected, roughly about 167 percent of GDP. In response, the Government created
the Fondo Nacional de Pensiones de entidades Territoriales (FONPET: National Pension Fund for State
Entities). Each entity is now responsible for updating their database in order to re-calculate the pension
liabilities. Future monitoring of this sub-component is recommended in order to confirm full participation
by all entities as well as to make certain that regular updates of system information are made on a timely
basis.

V. lmplementation / Output of the Component to Develop a System of Financial Intelligence to Detect
Corrupt and Fraudulent Practices

          Progress in achieving this component was a condition for Project approval. For this reason,
funding for this component was released during the early stages of the Project and thus avoided the
subsequent fiscal restrictions. Nevertheless, access to financial support from other bilateral agencies
resulted in marginal utilization of the Bank's resources, with only 18.5 percent utilization of budgeted
funds. As a result of Project support the following activities were realized:

·         Support for the establishment, initial staffing, technical support, and organization of the money
laundering unit within MoF. Funds were used in the building up of the Unit's capacity including the
purchase of computers and other equipment. (UIAF)
·         Support for the development of highly sophisticated software used to geographically map locations
of enterprises across the nation including specialized algorithms to determine whether money flows could



                                                       - 21 -

be considered suspicious given the industry base and revenue prospects of industries in particular sectors
and sub-regions. The software was also linked to identification matching with respect to suspicious deposits
or cash transactions with financial institutions across the country.
·        Support for the development of systems and software to allow financial institutions via the
supervisory agencies, to electronically submit reports on suspicious cash or other transactions to the Unit,
allowing it to correlate any such transactions with enterprises being investigated.

         The UIAF has evolved rapidly and has established an information network to compile reports of
questionable financial transactions and constitutes one of the most advanced Offices of its kind both in the
region and globally in the developing world. All financial sector regulatory agencies are linked to the
system and are required to make periodic reports. One potential weakness of the system is that the UIAF
does not have enforcement powers, thus it must rely on the cooperation of the participating entities which
so far (in the case of the banking superintendency) have fully supported the mandate of the Unit. Due to the
sheer volume of transaction reports which are being processed, the unit is nearing its computing capacity,
and thus should consider obtaining additional funding to upgrade its IT system. The unit currently has a
staff of 26 persons, of which 5 are analysts and two IT technicians. Because of these resource limitations, it
does not appear that the unit will have the capacity to develop the information systems for the incorporation
of other sectors of the economy into the intelligence network as originally anticipated. UIAF is planning to
expand its surveillance to the lottery businesses and casinos, jewelers, accountants, and lawyers; however,
it has not been empowered with enforcement faculties and thus a regulatory framework to handle this will
need to be established. At the same time, UIAF will also need to develop artificial intelligence systems to
increase its capacity to handle the additional volume in transaction reports.

VI. lmplementation / Output of the Component to Develop Competition and Anti-Trust Policy
Capacity

         The Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (SIC) received funding from the Project to
upgrade its IT system, to improve the regulatory framework established by the Competition Law, to
participate in the FTAA negotiations and to provide technical capacity in the investigation of anti-trust and
unfair competition cases. The principal outputs were:

·        Consulting support to improve monitoring, processing and resolution of the investigative case load
relating to anti-competitive practices, and to finance research work dealing with market structure and
industry monopoly issues. (SIC)
·        Provided financial resources to support participation of SIC in the FTAA negotiations.(SIC)
·        Financed acquisition of equipment and software to track companies or enterprises under
investigation for monopoly or anti-competition practices, and software to track the progress in the
investigative case load and eventual settlement agreements.

         The resources from the Project allowed the SIC to upgrade their case handling capacity.
Consultants were hired to assist with the development of procedural guidelines for analysis of competitive
practices. SIC was also able to update their information system and to develop new data bases to monitor
market activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         The project was a technical assistance operation supporting policy reforms and thus did not have a
quantifiable economic result.




                                                     - 22 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         As above, the project's outcome represented a "public good" and thus an immediate monetary
benefit or rate of return was not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The institutional development impact of the Project is deemed to be substantial based on the
output of the six major components / specific Project objectives. The purpose of this Project was to build
up institutional capacity and thus improve the enabling environment for the financial system ­ with special
emphasis on the capital markets. The components of the Project focused on different aspect of institutional
support such as enhancing the efficiency of the securities markets, strengthening existing regulations and
supervision practices, improving the market's information infrastructure, and reinforcing newly created
regulatory and policy making entities in the financial sector.

         While the overall thrust of the Project was on institutional reinforcement, the complexity of the
Project and the number of beneficiary entities stretched the available resources during implementation. The
areas of greater impact were the DGRF unit in MoF, which expanded its policy analysis capacity, the
DGSS, also in MoF, which was able to compile a comprehensive data base to estimate the Government's
pension liability; through SV and DGRF, the development of securitization of mortgage loans, a notable
market innovation; the establishment of the UIAF unit to monitor illegal financial transactions; the
reinforcement of supervisory activities by SB; the strengthening of corporate financial monitoring by the
SS; and while passage of the law is still pending, the drafting of a new Securities Market Law. The
contribution of the Project to these sub-components was highly satisfactory, particularly with respect to
their impact on market efficiencies. Of course the outcome from the new Securities Market Law hinges on
final approval in Congress.

         More emphasis in supporting some of the other components would have been helpful; however, the
complex structure of the Project, combined with the Government's decision to partially cancel funds,
hindered outcome in those areas. The institutional development impact on SV was marginal. This was
reflected in the limited use of resources. More up front attention to SV's organizational structure,
capacities and limitations would have resulted in a more realistic assessment of its institutional
development needs in relation to project management. The Superintendency of Cooperatives (SES)
benefited from support of the Project, yet the amount of resources allocated to this new agency relative to
the magnitude of the task of monitoring thousands of financial cooperatives was unrealistic. Even though
the funds channeled to SES were applied efficiently, within the overall scope of improving the performance
of this agency, the use of much greater resources could have been contemplated. But once again, the
complexity of the Project in view of the number of participating entities would have conspired against the
efficient use of those additional resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The economic / financial crisis of 1998-1999 was one of the principal factors affecting Project
implementation. Under the circumstances, there was a possibility that the Project would have been
cancelled altogether in view of the Government's concerns regarding the stabilization of the financial
system. Fortunately, strong Government commitment to the reforms of the financial system was
instrumental in the decision to continue with the Project although after some downsizing due to fiscal
budget constraints.


                                                     - 23 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         As mentioned above, the strong Government commitment to the reforms of the financial sector
proved a decisive factor in the successful outcome of the Project. The high technical and organizational
capabilities of key staff enabled implementation to proceed despite budget and economic hurdles. Of
course, the fiscal austerity measures imposed as a result of the economic / financial crisis led to partial
cancellation of Project funds.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The MoF was strongly committed to the Project's objectives. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
had been in operation since 1996 as part of an earlier IDB project. The PCU complied with the onerous
burden of preparing semi-annual Project Implementation Plans (PIAs), which was subsequently changed to
an annual basis. However, the relatively high turnover of UC directors, four during the Project, did
contribute to implementation delays, and potentially, lack of political power to avoid some of the project
budget cuts experienced.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The sustainability of this Project is judged to be likely. The strong commitment by the Government
to the reforms supported by the Project is expected to support further institutional development in the
regulatory framework as well as in the functioning of the markets. The work done on improving the
regulatory environment of the capital markets is expected to culminate with the approval by Congress of
the Securities Law. Further work is needed in strengthening the institutional capacity of the beneficiary
entities, particularly the SV, the SES, and the UIAF (mostly financial resources).

         Rationale: The sustainability rating is given due to Colombia's strong institutional capacity and
highly trained professionals in the civil service. In addition, the new regulatory and supervisory models
developed within the project, were absorbed, applied and disseminated within the beneficiary institutions.
Project technical inputs were thus applied to work processes and internalized, versus being mere advisory
consulting studies. The activities were also integrated with counterpart budgetary work program, which,
although more limited in the latter years, helped to incorporate project outputs as part of institutional
corporate targets.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         Bank performance in lending preparation and design is rated satisfactory. Project preparation,



                                                      - 24 -

however, took an unusually long period of time, in large part due to changing Government signals, during
which changes in market conditions affected the relevance of some of the Project components. By trying to
consolidate several operations into one, the design of the Project became very complex. In terms of
appraisal, inadequate assessment of the implementation capacity at the SV, the principal beneficiary of
Project funds, subsequently resulted in implementation delays.

7.2 Supervision:

          Bank performance during Project supervision is rated satisfactory. Based on interviews for this
report, the Borrower was appreciative of the follow-up to implementation issues shown by supervision
Missions. The fact that one Task Manager had responsibility of the Project during the full length of
implementation was considered a positive factor by the Borrower. Supervision missions included experts in
areas of interest to the beneficiary agencies. The Task Manager also took the initiative to refocus the
Project activities in order to facilitate implementation; although a more formal approach to this adjustment
in terms of documentation would have been helpful.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

          Overall Bank performance is deemed to be satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

          Borrower performance during preparation is deemed marginally satisfactory in terms of Project
design. As explained above, the complexity of the Project, political/personnel changes, and delays in
completing key studies and diagnostics, impacted adversely on the process, even though some benefits did
accrue towards the relevance of the final project design. Perhaps a more realistic approach in terms of
initial strategy and implementation capacity of the Borrower would have sent useful signals to the Bank
during preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

     Government implementation performance was satisfactory. As stated earlier in this report, the
successful outcome of this Project is attributed in large part to the strong commitment by the Government
to the reforms which were eventually defined and supported by the Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

          The performance of the implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance, was satisfactory. The PCU
was in regular contact with the beneficiary entities, this helped to identify ongoing implementation issues.
The semi-annual and then annual progress reports prepared by the PCU contained an impressive amount of
information; although this detracted somewhat from their ability to promote strategic direction to
beneficiary entities. PCU effectiveness was modestly compromised by the turnover of project coordinators.
Nevertheless, the regular ongoing staff provided continuity.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

          After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the Project, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.




                                                      - 25 -

8. Lessons Learned


         The principal lessons derived from the outcome of the First Loan include the following:

v        Strong Government commitment to the reforms supported by a TA Project is a decisive
factor in its success. In view of the long drawn out preparation period, which ended with a hodgepodge of
components that had earlier been envisioned as separate operations, changes in Government, and a
subsequent economic / financial crisis, this Project would have encountered serious problems in another
context, but for the strong commitment of the Government and its high technical capacity, the outcome was
successful.

v        TA project components are more relevant when supported by extensive economic sector
work. The Bank's Financial Sector Review (1993) followed by the Capital Markets Mission (1994-1996)
report, funded by the Japanese Grant, provided valuable input during the design of the Project components.

v        Design of a project has to be determined by the needs of the borrower. During the design
phase the Bank was insistent on structuring a capital markets project involving the use of a backstop
facility to support the issuance of longer maturities; however, the Government was never convinced of its
relevance. Bank efforts to promote the backstop facility added to the delays in project preparation.

v        Project design needs to be focused and with a limited number of components. The design of the
TA Project was too complex in terms of the number of beneficiary entities and the number of
sub-components. It is much better to design a sequence of TA operations with a logical buildup of activities
than to structure a very broad project which taxes the Bank's supervision capacity and the Borrower's
implementation capacity. Some entities that required additional support in order to meet their Project
commitments such as SV and SES were not dealt with adequately.

v        Project design has to be flexible particularly when there is a relatively long implementation
period. In the case of the TA Project the initial Project matrix contained a very detailed listing of all
activities with their respective costs. Such a rigid design of a project that is to run for several years is
unrealistic in view of the state of flux in the economy and within each of the beneficiary agencies,
particularly when there is a change in Government or the administration of a particular entity. It is not
realistic to tie down all project components from the start, rather some flexibility is needed in terms of
individual activities within a project component.

v        Project design should be accomplished within a reasonably short period of time. In the case of
this Project, design took over five years, given a two year pause. Nevertheless, many ideas and players took
part in the evolution of the final Project structure which may have contributed to its extensive coverage.

v        The longer the period of preparation, the more scrutiny should be applied by the internal
review of the final project design. After the TA Project was re-started, the Bank should have applied a
more rigorous test to the adequacy and relevancy of design, particularly in terms of the Borrower capacity.
A simpler but successful project can have a much better outcome than an ambitious but complex one.

v        Successful financial market innovations are market driven. The introduction of new financial
instruments is a spontaneous creative response on the part of intermediaries to an existing market need;
thus, attempts to artificially create a market instrument are not sustainable. The development of
securitization of mortgage loans has been a major success; while the development of derivatives and



                                                      - 26 -

options trading has lacked a critical mass for fruition. The design of these initiatives should be based on
actual market data that supports the critical mass test for its feasibility.

v        Project risk assessment needs to explicitly address Government budgetary policies as they
relate to approval of Project-related expenditures. Project appraisal should include sensitivity analysis
and contingency planning regarding any unexpected budget shortfall experienced by the borrower and
alternative restructuring of project activities. The economic / financial crisis in 1998-1999 resulted in the
implementation of fiscal austerity by the Government. Colombian budgetary practices apply any rollbacks
in expenditures to all items in the national budget, including Project expenditure items, even though those
items had already been earmarked for Bank financing and their cancellation resulted in the loss of those
financial resources.

v        When a beneficiary entity represents a significant share of project financing, staff should
carefully evaluate implementation capacity. In the case of SV, lack of experience with Bank procurement
and budgeting procedures undermined its use of Project resources and consequently delayed total
disbursements.

v        Complex institution building TA projects require post-closing follow up to check on the
sustainability of the initiatives undertaken by the project and to assess the medium- to long-term
effectiveness. Technical assistance, particularly institution building, is not a one time support activity.
Monitoring of Project outcomes sometimes involves future follow-up to confirm sustainability of newly
implemented practices. In the case of the Social Security component a lump sum of financial resources
were applied to the establishment of a comprehensive compilation of employment histories and resulting
pension liabilities; however, the credibility of this analysis hinges on continued full participation by all
affected entities. Likewise, in the case of SES, the cooperatives superintendency, the Project provided
funding to help jump-start the agency; nevertheless, institutional development at this agency was only at a
nascent stage. In both instances the Bank should device a more formal monitoring process to evaluate the
sustainability of its Projects. A project's implementation should not end at the time of closing.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




  Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
                             República de Colombia


Bogotá D.C.,

Señor
John Pollner
Líder Especialista del Sector Financiero
Banco Mundial

                            Asunto: Proyecto Desarrollo de los Mercados Financieros y de Capitales - BIRF 4196-CO



                                                       - 27 -

Apreciado Señor Pollner:

En nombre del Gobierno Colombiano quiero expresarle mis agradecimientos por el apoyo permanente del Banco
Mundial durante todo el desarrollo del proyecto "Desarrollo del Sector Financiero y del Mercado de Capitales".

Sin lugar a dudas, este proyecto le permitió al Gobierno, a través del Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público y de
las demás entidades involucradas en el mismo, adelantar acciones orientadas al fortalecimiento de la regulación
prudencial y la supervisión, tanto en el ámbito del mercado de capitales como en el del mercado intermediado, y
establecer políticas que propicien estabilidad, claridad y nuevos instrumentos de apoyo en la actividad financiero,
aseguradora, bursátil y cooperativa.

Muchas de estas acciones surgieron de las recomendaciones hechas por la Misión del Mercado de Capitales y,
posteriormente, por la necesidad del Gobierno Nacional de reactivar los diversos sectores de la economía y en
particular el sector financiero, ante las dificultades que a partir de 1998 evidenciaron muchas entidades y usuarios de
dicho sector, lo que incluso llevó a declarar la emergencia económica. Esta coyuntura exigió esfuerzos adicionales
del Gobierno con miras a recuperar y fortalecer el sector financiero y lograr la estabilidad y crecimiento económico.

El manejo de la crisis llevó al Gobierno a introducir arreglos normativos necesarios para modernizar algunos
aspectos de la legislación, flexibilizar riguideces de la normatividad, corregir debilidades evidenciadas en el proceso
de reacomodamiento del sector financiero, introducir mecanismos de protección a los usuarios del sistema e
instrumentos para proteger la confianza del público y adecuar algunas normas a estándares internacionales y a los
pronunciamiento de la rama jurisdiccional. Estos ajustes fueron recogidos en las recientes reformas financieras que
el Gobierno puso a consideración del Congreso y que hoy son Leyes, dotando al sistema financiero de un nuevo
marco legal y posibilitando su mayor desarrollo en condiciones de transparencia y equidad.

Hoy, podemos decir que la crisis fue superada y las cifras de desempeño del sector financiero lo corroboran. Como
resultado de las mejores condiciones económicas, los establecimientos de crédito presentaron al cierre de diciembre
de 2003, utilidades por COP $1.805 mil millones; el crédito neto del sistema aumentó en 6.89%; la exposición al
riesgo del sector financiero se reduce porque la cartera vencida bruta disminuyó en el 17.84%; y, la solvencia de los
establecimientos de crédito se sitúo en el 14.5%, por encima del mínimo requerido por las normas de regulación
prudencial.

Por otro lado, la estabilidad de los mercados financieros contribuyó a que durante el año 2003 la economía
colombiana presentara una dinámica caracterizada por la aceleración en el ritmo de crecimiento económico. La tasa
de crecimiento económico de 3.74% registrada para éste año, así lo confirma. Este proceso, en lo que va corrido el
año 2004, ha continuado no solo para los distintos agregados económicos sino para el sector financiero y las
entidades que lo integran.

Igualmente, el proyecto posibilitó adelantar reformas en sectores estratégicos de la economía, como es el sistema de
seguridad social, con el fin de evitar crisis fiscales futuras y generar confianza en el sistema. Otro sector que se vio
beneficiado con el proyecto fue el sector empresarial a través del desarrollo de acciones en materia de supervisión
de sociedades y del desarrollo de instrumentos en materia procedimental. Por su parte, el proyecto permitió que el
Gobierno adelantara una estrategia de manejo y emisión de deuda pública del Estado así como una estrategia
financiera para el Distrito Capital.

Queremos anotar, además, que el proyecto permitió la implementación del modelo institucional de la Unidad
Administrativa Especial de Información y Análisis Financiero, UIAF, y de los sistemas de captación e identificación de
información de dicha Unidad. Así mismo, la creación, implementación y fortalecimiento del modelo Institucional de la
Superintendencia de la Economía Solidaria.



                                                           - 28 -

Este trabajo conjunto con entidades externas al Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público permitió, el fortalecimiento
institucional y la consolidación de las entidades beneficiarias del proyecto, las cuales desarrollaron e implementaron
proyectos de gran impacto económico y fiscal.

Por último, queremos anotar que el Gobierno sigue comprometido con las reformas del sector financiero y del
mercado de capitales que permitan poner a tono con estándares internacionales nuestra normatividad y proteger
adecuadamente a todos los intervinientes del sistema financiero, sin perder de vista la realidad del país. Por ello, el
Gobierno tiene nuevos retos los cuales requieren, para su desarrollo, de un trabajo cuidadoso y coordinado entre las
distintas entidades del Gobierno y del apoyo de la banca multilateral.

El Gobierno agradece el permanente acompañamiento por parte del Banco y está a disposición de los equipos
técnicos del mismo para definir conjuntamente programas futuros de crédito y asistencia técnica en la medida en que
se consoliden los ajustes y se requieran nuevas acciones para el mercado intermediado y desintermediado.

Cordial saludo,

María Inés Agudelo
Viceministro Técnica



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                        - 29 -

Colombia: Selected Economic Indicators

                             1995    1996      1997      1998       1999       2000    2001

GDP growth (%)                 5.2     2.1       3.4       0.6       -4.2        2.9     1.4
Inflation (%):
 Average                      20.9    20.8      18.5     18.7        10.9        9.2     7.9
 year-end                     19.5    21.6      17.7     16.7          9.2       8.8     7.6

Interest Rates:
 DTF                        32.34   31.14     24.13    32.58       21.33       12.15  12.44
 Lending rate               42.77   41.99     34.22    42.21       30.41       26.37  20.72

Exchange Rate (pesos / US$)
 Average                   912.8   1036.5    1141.1   1427.0      1758.6     2087.4  2299.8  250
   (% chg)                            13.6      10.1     25.1        23.2       18.7    10.2
 year-end                   987.6  1005.3    1293.6   1542.1      1873.8     2229.2  2291.2  2864.8
   (% chg)                             1.8      28.7     19.2        21.5       19.0     2.8

Public Sector Deficit (% of GDP)
 with privatizations         -0.06   -0.86      0.45    -3.14       -3.74      -3.76   -4.24
 excl. privatization         -0.31    -1.7     -2.81    -3.67       -4.08      -4.19   -4.34

Balance of Payments (millions of US$):
Current Account            (4,528) (4,642)   (5,751)  (4,858)         671       626  (1,251) (1,639)

Financial Account:
 FDI (net)                    712   2,784     4,753    2,033       1,392      1,973   2,493   1,171
 Loans (net)                1,565   2,595     1,517        97     (1,075)    (1,354)     (4) (1,347)
 Other (net)                2,282   1,304       318    1,184       (873)       (634)    (99)
  Net Financial Acct.       4,560   6,683     6,587    3,314       (555)        (15)  2,390   1,295

Errors & Omissions            (30)  (321)      (559)      154      (430)        259      78     482

Overall Balance                 2   1,721       277   (1,390)      (315)        870   1,217
o/w: chg. in reserves           2   1,721       277   (1,390)      (315)        870   1,217

Crrnt Acct (% of GDP)         -4.9    -4.8      -5.4      -4.9         0.8       0.7    -1.5

Sources: Central Bank, Finance Ministry, and the National Statistical Institute




                                        - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome Indicators:

               Indicator              Initially Projected  Actual/Latest
                                                             Estimate


   Yearly average of equity market             NA            1994 : 23%
         capitalization / GDP                                1997 : 21%
                                                             2000 : 12%
                                                             2002 : 14%
                                                            1999 : 10.9%
Solvency / Capital Adequacy Ratio                           2000 : 12.1%
  of the Banking System                       10%           2001 : 9.8%
                                                            2002 : 10.0%
                                                            2003 : 11.0%

Yearly volume of pension liabilities          200%         150% of GDP


Yearly number of cases of anti-                150           2000: 134
competitive practices investigated by                        2001: 168
SIC                                                          2002: 135
                                                             2003: 236
                                                            1999 : 10,455
                                                            2000 : 13,206
Value of Private Pension Fund Assets           NA          2001 : 15,604
            (Pesos billions)                                2002 : 18,279
                                                            2003 : 21,113
                                                           4/2004 : 21,317




                                                    - 31 -

Output Indicators:

Colombia: Value of Securities Traded

                                 1995     2000   2001
(Pesos mn.)
Stocks                           1,536   2,897   1,769
CDTs                            14,295  11,587  16,614
Corporate Bonds                  2,174   6,025   4,483
Central Bank                     1,260       0       0
TES                              1,655  35,110  48,275
Other                            4,860   6,469  10,752
TOTAL                           25,780  62,088  81,894

(percent)
Stocks                              6       4.7    2.2
CDTs                              55.4    18.7    20.3
Corporate Bonds                    8.4      9.7    5.5
Central Bank                       4.9       0       0
TES (treasury sec.)                6.4    56.5    58.9
Other                             18.9    10.4    13.1
  TOTAL                           100      100     100




                                       - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                      - 33 -

Project Costs by Components (Loan plus Counterpart - in US$ million)

       Project Component            Appraisal   Revised after Actuals (Est.) Percentage
                                                Cancellations                of Revised
I. Developing Financial                1,237,000        667,980      876,529      131%
Markets
 A. Improving the functioning of        575,000                       91,702
the markets
 B. Developing the market for           487,000                      690,184
public securities
 C. Promote participation of            175,000                       94,643
institutional investors
II. Strengthening Regulation           4,380,000      4,599,000    4,360,027        95%
and Supervision Capacity
 A. Harmonization/refinement of         440,000                    1,937,131
the regulatory framework
 B. Strengthening institutional        2,075,000                   1,595,558
capacity- market supervision
 C. Creation of Cooperatives           1,865,000                     827,338
Superintendency
III. Increasing the Supply of          2,606,000        521,200      203,285        39%
Securities in the Market.
A. Increasing securities supply         715,000                       45,167
B. Introducing & promoting new         1,891,000                     158,118
instruments
IV. Consolidating Social               4,371,000      2,877,283    3,238,752      113%
Security Reforms
 A. Implementing transfer of           3,370,000                   1,327,499
pension liabilities
 B. Institutional strengthening of      218,000                      177,270
Delegatura of pensions (SB)
 C. Institutional strengthening of      250,000
Social Security Institute
 D. Continue implementation and         533,000                    1,733,983
regulation of Law 100
V. Development of a system for         2,680,000        536,000      414,805        77%
Control of Money Laundering
 A. Establishment of the system         850,000                      351,516
of financial intelligence
 B. Implementation of the new           500,000                       63,289
System in three priority sectors
 C. Expand other sub-sectors           1,330,000
VI. Development of                     1,880,000        827,200      626,187        76%
Competition and Anti-trust
policy capacity
VII. Project Management
 A. Project Admin. & Mgmt.              816,000         652,800      556,678        85%
 B. Contingencies                      2,030,000
Other (incorporated ex post)                                       1,465,410

Total Project Costs                   20,000,000     10,681,463   11,741,673      110%



                                                - 34 -

      Project Financing by Source of Funding and Beneficiary (US$ mn.)

    Beneficiary      Initial Estimate               Actual
                    Total Project Costs   Bank       Gov't.     Total      %

PCU                             816,000    44,790     168,700   213,490     26%
DGCP                            290,993   629,551     121,744   751,295    258%
DGRF & MOF                    2,856,475  1,229,458    762,935  1,992,393    70%
DGSS                          3,201,500  2,283,779  1,024,228  3,308,007   103%
SB                              962,032  1,269,840    379,574  1,649,414   171%
SV                            3,476,478   385,513     250,907   636,420     18%
SS                                   NA   417,514     246,820   664,334     NA
SES                           1,678,500   688,125     146,327   834,452     50%
SIC                           1,692,000   351,104     313,527   664,631     39%
SHD                                  NA    97,576      38,262   135,838     NA
FOGAFIN                              NA   460,462      22,670   483,132     NA
UIAF                          2,211,500   358,798      49,469   408,267     18%
Contingency                   2,814,522
 TOTAL                       20,000,000  8,216,510  3,525,163 11,741,673    59%




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                  2     N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00            0.00       0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.20          0.40            0.50       0.00        2.10
                                   (0.90)          (0.30)          (0.50)     (0.00)     (1.70)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00            14.80      0.00        14.80
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)         (11.00)     (0.00)     (11.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00            3.10       0.00        3.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.30)     (0.00)     (2.30)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00            0.00       0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00            0.00       0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             1.20          0.40            18.40      0.00        20.00
                                   (0.90)          (0.30)         (13.80)     (0.00)     (15.00)




                                                - 35 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                  ICB                 NCB             2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                                   0.00                 0.00       0.00             0.00           0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.87                 0.00       0.00             0.00           0.87
                                          (0.80)               (0.00)     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.80)
3. Services                                1.04                 2.46       4.92                            8.42
                                          (0.84)               (1.92)     (3.84)           (0.00)          (6.60)
4. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00       0.98             0.00           0.98
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)     (0.82)           (0.00)          (0.82)
5. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00       0.00             1.47           1.47
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00       0.00             0.00           0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                                   1.91                 2.46       5.90             1.47           11.74
                                          (1.64)               (1.92)     (4.66)           (0.00)          (8.22)
Services = Consulting Services; Miscellaneous (line 4) = Training.


 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Shortlisting / shopping - individual consultancies.




                                                           - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              4/1994                    2    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             CAPITAL MARKETS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/1995                   3    TM (1), BANKING
                                             CONSULTANT (1), CAPITAL
                                             MARKETS SPEC. (1)
              8/1996                    4    TM (1), FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1), BANK SUPERVISION
                                             SPEC. (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/1997                    5    TM (1), LEGAL (1),
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (1),
                                             DISB. OFFICER (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)


 Supervision
              06/19/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/17/1999                1    FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)             S               S
              2/10/2000                 4    TASK MANAGER (1),                S               S
                                             BANKING (1), FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR (1), OPERATIONS (1)
              06/10/2000                2    FINANCIAL SECTOR / TM (1);       S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)
              08/10/2000                1    TM / FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)        S               S
              04/06/2001                2    TM / FINANCIAL SECTOR (1);       S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)
              01/25/2002                2    TM/LEAD FINANCIAL SPEC           S               S
                                             (1), BANKING SPEC (1)
              12/10/2003                     FINANCIAL SECTOR (1);
                                             CAPITAL MARKETS (1)

 ICR

              05/02/2003                1     TM / FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)       S               S
              12/15/2003                      TM / FINANCIAL SECTOR           S               S
                                              (1); BANKING CONSULTANT
                                              (1)



(b) Staff:



                                              - 38 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation           45.3                         124.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                45.2                           88.6
Supervision                          72.6                         188.0
ICR                                    4.5                          19.2
Total                               167.6                         419.8




                                         - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Endnotes listed in this document:


1/ See Misión de Estudios del Mercado de Capitales: Informe Final, Ministerio de Hacienda ­ Banco Mundial ­
Fedesarrollo, Bogota, Colombia, May 1996.

2/ See Technical Annex: Colombia: Financial Markets Development Project, Report No. T-7135-CO, May 28,
1997.

3/ Financial Sector and Capital Markets Project Preparation Mission, BTO ­ Report, May 10, 1993.

4/ Similar capital markets backstop facility project was implemented in Argentina: Capital Markets Development
Project (1992), Loan 3709.

5/ Colombia ­ FEPS Financial Markets Technical Assistance Project, by K. Challa, April 18, 1994.

6/ Japanese Grant approved May 6, 1994 -- The Grant provided resources for studies in the following areas:
enhancement of the securities market regulatory framework; information disclosure and dissemination;
strengthening surveillance / monitoring capacities of regulatory authorities; promotion and enlargement of
financial markets; and social security reform.

7/ This report is based on information provided by the initial Task Manager who was interviewed for this
evaluation as well as on available documentation. However, a number of relevant Project preparation documents
covering the period from 1994 through approval in May 1997 were missing from the Project files.

8/ See comments in the previous section on Project design regarding this issue.

9/ Described in Ayuda Memoria, Mision de Supervision, April 6, 2001.

10/ Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5), October 8, 2002.




                                                       - 42 -

- 43 -

