Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 22479
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Financial Markets Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated May 6, 1994
TRUST FUND NO. 22479
Page  2
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions 
of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
Page  3
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
Page  4
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be 
financed out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in 
another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of 
the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of 
such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan;
(b)
"consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any 
consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Superintendency of Securities" means the Recipient's 
Superintendencia Nacional de Valores, established by the Borrower's Decree No. 
2739, dated December 6, 1991, issued by the Borrower's Executive Branch 
exercising the powers vested thereupon by Transitory Article No. 52 of the 
Borrower's Constitution; and
(d)
"FONADE" means Fondo
Nacional
de
Proyectos
de
Desarrollo
(National Fund for Development Projects) a legal entity established in the 
Recipient's territory, operating therein under the laws of the Recipient, and 
owned and controlled by the Recipient.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant 
in an amount of ninety-eight million five hundred thousand yen (¥98,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Page  5
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in yen a special deposit account in Banco de la República on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later 
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project through its 
Ministerio
de
Hacienda
y
Crédito
Público
with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. For purposes of this Section, the Recipient may enter 
into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with FONADE, under 
which arrangements FONADE shall, on behalf of the Recipient's Ministerio
de
Hacienda
y
Crédito
Público
and following instructions therefrom, execute and 
deliver all necessary contracts for the provision of services under the Project and 
make the payments required thereunder.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  6
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. The Recipient and the Administrator hereby agree that: (a) 
the input of the Borrower’s Superintendency of Securities shall be obtained, as 
and when needed, particularly in respects of Parts A and C of the Technical 
Page  7
Assistance; (b) Part A.2 of the Technical Assistance shall not be completed unless 
the relevant findings and recommendations of Part A.6 thereof shall have been 
incorporated, and to the extent possible, integrated with the former; and (c) that 
the execution of Parts D.1 and 2 thereof shall be closely coordinated so as to 
ensure that each such Part of the Technical Assistance benefits from the other’s 
findings.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Ministro
de
Hacienda
y
Crédito
Publico
of the Recipient 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministro de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Carrera 7, No. 6-45,
Oficina 801
Santa Fe de Bogotá, DE
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
  44473 MHACCO
For the Administrator:
Page  8
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Rudolf Hommes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Page  9
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
Consultants’
98,500,000
100%
services
TOTAL
98,500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A
technical assistance program to assist in the preparation of the proposed 
Financial Sector and Capital Markets Development Project through the execution 
of studies and provision of advisory services (including training services) which 
are aimed at laying the groundwork for an enhanced regulatory and institutional 
framework of financial markets, develop new financial instruments and 
mechanisms to be utilized on a pilot basis in the Project, and facilitate the 
transition towards a private social security pension system. The program 
includes studies and specialized assistance in the following areas, and in such 
other areas related to the former, as shall be agreed, from time to time by 
agreement between the Recipient, acting through its Ministry of Finance, and the 
Administrator:
Part A
:
Enhancement of the Securities Market Regulatory
Framework
1.
Analysis of constraints to the development of modern intermediary 
Page  10
operations such as short sales of equities, borrowing of securities, margin 
operations, repurchase agreements, etc.
2.
Establishment of an adequate system of prudential regulations for market 
intermediaries (e.g. own account operations, minimum capital, net capital 
adequacy).
3.
Review of the recently liberalized system of commissions on securities 
trades.
4.
Analysis of self-regulatory systems for the operation of exchanges and 
other related entities (e.g. centralized depository agencies). These would include 
trading, custody, clearing, settlement and payment, internal audit and 
enforcement systems.
5.
Review and enhancement of existing norms about establishment of rating 
agencies.
6.
Design of a normative system concerning insider information/trading, 
conflict of interest, fraud, etc., including initial drafting of norms and regulations.
Part B
:
Information Disclosure and Dissemination
1.
Design of modern information reporting tools for market intermediaries, 
including a unified chart of accounts, standard system of information on own 
account position, and a risk monitoring system.
2.
Definition of information disclosure requirements for issuers of securities.
3.
Establishment of modern public registry systems for securities and 
companies.
4.
Systematization of the legislation, regulations and norms related to 
financial markets.
Part C
:
Strengthening Surveillance/Monitoring Capacities of
Regulatory Authorities
1.
Development of on-line systems for following market operations, 
including automatic "alarm" systems to detect market manipulation and other 
rule violations.
2.
Development of monitoring systems for institutional investors, including 
Page  11
investment portfolio valuation and diversification.
3.
Enhancement of the Superintendency of Securities surveillance capacity of 
market participants, including preparation of inspection manuals and technical 
guidelines, training for on-site inspections, etc.
Part D
:
Promotion and Enlargement of Financial Markets
1.
Introduction of new market instruments, such as securitization of assets 
(e.g. mortgage-backed securities), derivative securities (forward contracts, 
futures, options, etc), including initial drafting of pertinent norms and 
regulations.
2.
Determining the possibility of establishing over-the-counter markets or 
other market alternatives to stock exchanges.
3.
Mechanisms to promote the development of financial markets through the 
privatization of public enterprises/assets.
4.
Promotion of competition and prevention of unfair practices in financial 
and other markets.
Part E
:
Social Security Reform
1.
Initial design of implementing regulations of new private pension system 
and review of institutional supervisory framework of pension fund management 
companies.
2.
Development of new financial instruments appropriate for pension funds’ 
investment.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants with expertise in the areas related to the activities set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement including, but not limited to finance, 
economics, law, securities markets, banking, institutional development, 
information systems and social security and pension systems. Such consultants’ 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on 
Page  12
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers 
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
2.
For complex, time based-assignments, the Recipient shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed 
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants’ Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank 
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the 
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of 
a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
¥9,850,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Page  13
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Page  14
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  15
