Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4196-CO
Loan Agreement
(Financial Markets Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4196 - CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.”
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, with respect 
to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or  referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the 
Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant 
to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to 
the Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Banking Superintendency” means the Borrower Executive Branch’s entity 
operating under the provisions of the Borrower’s Law 45 of 1923, as supplemented by 
the Borrower’s Decree 2359 of 1993, to supervise and control creation and activities 
of banking, fiduciary and other financial companies;
(b)
“Companies Superintendency” means the Borrower  Executive Branch’s entity 
operating under the provisions of the Borrower’s Law 222 of 1995 and the Borrower’s 
Decree Extraordinary 1080 of 1996 to supervise and control corporate matters;
(c)
“Cooperative Sector” means all aspects related to the operations of 
companies in the Borrower’s territories which are organized as cooperative companies, 
including without limitation, soundness of their financial condition and of the way 
they are conducting the transactions intra companies, and between companies and their 
respective members, as well as all aspects related to the regulations of said 
activities;
(d)
“Cooperative Sector Legal Framework” means one or more laws, and the 
corresponding regulatory decree or decrees, providing for an enhanced and 
comprehensive supervisory and regulatory framework for the Cooperative Sector;
(e)
“Department” means any of the Borrower’s Departamentos, a political 
Page  3
subdivision of the Borrower and one of the types of Territorial Entities (as defined 
below) in terms of Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution;
(f)
“General Pension System” means the Borrower’s pension system, as modified 
and expanded under the provisions of Book I of the Borrower’s Law 100 of December 23, 
1993 in order, inter alia, to enable the administration,  by privately owned 
companies, of funds covering pension payments, and which Law established, inter alia,  
the Delegatura (Delegation) of pension and severance funds in the Banking 
Superintendency, to assist the latter in the supervision of activities related to such 
funds;
(g)
“ICETEX” means the Borrower’s Instituto Colombiano de Crédito Educativo y 
Estudios Técnicos en el Exterior “Mariano Ospina Pérez”- ICETEX established and 
reorganized, respectively, by the Borrower’s Decree No. 2586 of 1950 and Decree Law 
No. 3155 of 1968;
(h)
“Institute” means the Borrower’s Instituto de Seguros Sociales (Social 
Security Institute) a decentralized agency of the Borrower operating as a State 
industrial and commercial enterprise, and which has been established by, and is 
operating under, inter alia, the provisions of Article 275 of the Borrower’s Law 100  
of  December 23, 1993;
(i)
“Intelligence Framework” means the normative framework and steps to be 
established and taken, respectively, for purposes of Parts E.2 and E.3 of the Project 
and to put in place the Intelligence System (as defined below); the establishment of 
such framework may include the enactment of one or more laws, and/or decrees of the 
Borrower’s Executive Branch and/or other administrative measures, as required;
(j)
“Intelligence System” means the system of financial information and 
intelligence to be centrally analyzed and evaluated for the purposes described in the 
title to Part E of the Project, that is expected to be put in place by the Borrower, 
once the Intelligence Framework has been established pursuant to: (i) the tasks to be 
carried out under Part E.1 of the Project; and (ii) the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) 
(iv) of this Loan Agreement;
(k)
“Ministry” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
(l)
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s Municipalidades, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower and one of the types of Territorial Entities in terms of 
Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution;
(m)
“Pension Delegatura” means the Delegatura (Delegation) referred to in 
paragraph (f) of this Section;
(n)
“Procurement  Arrangements” means the contractual arrangements provided 
for in Section 3.01 (d)  of this Agreement;
(o)
“Securities Superintendency” means the Borrower Executive Branch’s entity 
which supervises and controls activities in the public securities markets, was given 
the status of Superintendency by the provisions of Transitory Article 52 of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and is operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 2739 of 1991 
and Law 35 of 1993;
(p)
“Semestral Review” means each of the reviews provided for in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement;
(q)
“Six-month Program” means each of the programs for Project activities 
during a period of six months, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, 
including the first one covering the period between July 1, 1997 and January 1, 1998, 
each such program to include: (i) the Bank approved activities to be carried out, or 
which will have begun to be carried out, as applicable, during the period for the 
Program in question; (ii) the sequence for such activities within such Program; (iii) 
the estimated expenditures, both for services or for goods; and (iv) the objectives 
and specific targets for the said activities;
(r)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means each of the contractual arrangements as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
Page  4
(s)
“Table” means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(t)
“Territorial Entity”  means a Municipality or  a Department, as so 
defined, and the term “Territorial Entities” means, collectively, more than one 
Territorial Entity, as so defined, without distinction of type unless the context 
otherwise requires;
(u)
“UIIF” means the Unidad de información e inteligencia financiera 
(Financial information and intelligence unit), a unit to be kept in the Ministry 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Loan Agreement and for purposes 
of the carrying out of Part E. 1 of the Project, and which will become the nucleus 
(also being referred to as UIIF) of the Intelligence System, once such system has been 
established; and
(v)
“Vice Ministry” means the Technical Vice Ministry of the Ministry.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall not submit applications for withdrawal from the Loan 
Account:
(i)
in respect of expenditures connected to Part B.3 of the Project 
and Loan 
proceeds provisionally allocated under Category 4 of 
the Table pursuant to the 
letter of even date herewith from the Borrower 
to the Bank, unless: (A) the 
law or laws under the Cooperative Sector 
Legal Framework have been enacted in 
form and substance satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Bank; and (B) the Bank 
shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the Loan proceeds in question 
shall 
have been distributed to Categories (1) and/or (2) and/or (3) of the 
Table, as and if warranted; 
(ii)
in respect of the same expenditures and Loan proceeds if, after 
the enactment 
of the said law or laws enacted under the Cooperative 
Sector Legal Framework, 
or any provision thereof shall have been 
revoked, abrogated, nullified or 
amended, unless the Borrower and 
the Bank shall have agreed that any such 
action does not 
affect adversely and materially the carrying out of the 
Project or any Part thereof;
(iii)
in respect of expenditures connected to Part D of the Project and 
Loan 
proceeds allocated therefor under Categories (1), and/or (2) 
and/or (3) of the 
Table pursuant to the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the 
Bank, if the General Pension System or any 
provision of the Borrower’s Law 100 
of 1993 included in, or connected 
with, the provisions of the General Pension 
System, shall have been 
revoked, abrogated, nullified or amended, except if  
the Borrower and the 
Bank shall have agreed that any such action does not 
affect 
adversely and materially the carrying out of the Project or any Part 
thereof; and
(iv)
in respect of expenditures connected to Parts E.2 and 3 of the 
Project and 
Loan proceeds provisionally allocated therefor under 
Page  5
Category 4 of the Table 
pursuant to the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the Bank, 
unless: (A) the Borrower shall have 
established, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank an Intelligence Framework that will 
enable the 
Borrower to put in place and thereafter maintain an Intelligence 
System 
which, in the opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, will justify the 
carrying out of said Parts of the Project; and (B) the Bank shall have given 
notice to the Borrower that the Loan proceeds in question shall have been 
distributed to Categories (1) and/or (2) and/or (3) of the Table, 
as warranted.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Vice Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and regulatory practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through the Vice Ministry:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and 
evaluation indicators 
and performance targets agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank in the letter 
of even date herewith (as such 
letter may be amended from time to time), the 
carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, with reasonable anticipation to each Semestral 
Review, a report 
integrating the results of the: (A) monitoring 
and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (i) 
of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in meeting the targets 
for the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the 
date of said report; and (B) setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(iii)
review with the Bank, in each Semestral Review, or such later date 
as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations 
Page  6
of the said report and the Bank views on the 
matter.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall, through the Vice Ministry: (i)  maintain: (A) the committee 
established pursuant to paragraph (a) (i) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement; and 
(B) the unit established pursuant to paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Loan 
Agreement,  until the date on which the report mentioned in Section 9.07 (c)  of the 
General Conditions has been received by the Bank; (ii) maintain a unit (UIIF) for 
purposes of Part E.1 of the Project and ensure that such unit, once the Intelligence 
Framework has been established, will become the UIIF or nucleus of such System; and 
(iii) shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds facilities, services and other 
resources as shall be required to maintain and operate such committee and unit and the 
UIIF. 
(d)
In order to assist the Borrower in all procurement matters in connection 
with the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall enter, with an entity, 
selected by the Borrower in accordance with the Guidelines referred to in Section II 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, into contractual 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank whereby such entity shall: (i) on behalf of the 
Borrower, acquire all services and goods required for the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Loan Agreement; and (ii) provide advice on the 
awarding process of said contracts and handle all aspects of the contracts so awarded, 
including payments thereunder. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce or waive such arrangements or any 
provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of this Section and only if, in order to carry out the Project, it is required 
that the Borrower enter into contractual agreements with a legal entity such as ICETEX 
or Institute, the Borrower shall enter into the corresponding contractual agreements 
with any such Entity on terms and conditions that shall enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement, particularly, but not limited to, the 
Borrower’s obligations under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and 4.01 of this Agreement, and 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not fail to enforce or waive any 
Subsidiary Agreement or provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ and other services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank not later than 
December 15 and June 15 in each year (the Semestral Review), the Six-month Program for 
the next semester and its estimated recurrent expenditures, including: (i) (A) each 
activity to be carried out under such Program, irrespective of whether the carrying 
out thereof will take more than six months; and (B) the application to such activities 
of the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; (ii) the eligibility criteria for 
the selection of the said activity and whether said criteria shall have been met; and 
(iii) the need of revising the types of indicators and targets referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the specific monitoring and 
evaluation indicators and performance targets to be used for measuring and evaluating 
the carrying out of such activities.
(b)
For purposes of the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall prepare 
semiannually each proposed Six-month Program, commencing with the one specifically 
mentioned in paragraph (q) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement, and furnish each 
proposed Program to the Bank in a timely manner so as to make possible: (i) the review 
of such Program during the next coming Semestral Review; (ii) the approval of the 
inclusion in the Project of the selected activities and, if applicable, in the next 
following Borrower’s budget, and of the expenditures to be incurred in carrying out 
the Six-month Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank under the review in 
question; and (iii) the agreement with the Bank on the indicators and targets referred 
to in paragraph (a) (iii) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out the corresponding Six-month Program, as 
agreed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, and shall not modify, or permit to 
Page  7
modify any such Program or the activities included in it, except for modifications 
thereto agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the different Parts of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  8
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to the Procurement 
Arrangements other than the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
(i)
a committee, that shall be in charge of the overall orientation of 
the Project; 
and
(ii)
a unit within the Vice Ministry, that shall be in charge of 
Project 
administration, shall have both been 
established in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the appointment of all members of the 
committee and 
of the coordinator who shall be the head of said unit;
(b)
the Procurement Arrangements shall have been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(c)
the first Six-month Program shall have been furnished to the Bank in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the committee and the unit 
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly established and their 
members and head, respectively, have been duly appointed, and all of them are allowed 
by law to discharge their respective functions.
Section 6.03. The date of October 29, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By  /s/ Juan Carlos Esguerra Portocarrero 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)
Training
    1,795,000
100%
under Parts
A, B.1 and B.2
C, D, E.1 and
F of the Project
(2)
Goods under
      270,000
100% of foreign
Parts A, B.1, 
expenditures,
B.2, C, D, E.1,
100% of local
and F of the 
expenditures
Project and for the
(ex-factory cost)
unit established    
and 85% of local
pursuant to Section 
expenditures for
6.01 (a) of the Loan
other items
Agreement
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
    8,675,000        100% 
fees payable under
the Procurement 
Arrangements and
services for Parts
A, B.1, B.2, C, D, 
E.1 and F of the
Page  10
Project
(4)
Training, goods
    2,760,000
and consultant
services for Parts
B.3, E.2, and E.3
of the Project
(a)
Training and
100%
consultant
services
(b)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(5)
Unallocated
          1,500,000
TOTAL
         15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “training” means costs of organizing, teaching and/or attending 
training sessions, workshops and seminars, including per diem and travel for teachers 
and attendants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,200,000,  may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2 or 3 of the Table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after April 30, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and for individual consultants, training, 
and goods, all under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to develop the Colombian financial 
markets into a more efficient channel for mobilizing domestic savings (including those 
generated by social security mechanisms) and financing investment; (ii) to improve the 
institutional capacities of the Borrower for financial sector policy formulation and 
to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework in order to, inter alia, 
minimize the risk of loss of confidence in the financial markets; (iii) to contribute 
to increase the supply of securities by, inter alia, taking the necessary normative 
steps to facilitate the introduction of new financial instruments; (iv) to consolidate 
the implementation of the Borrower’s social security reform; (v) to contribute to 
deter corrupt or fraudulent practices, such as money laundering and creation of ad-hoc 
corporations for illegal purposes; and (vi) to contribute to a more efficient 
Page  11
operation of financial and non-financial markets by promoting competition and 
deterring anti-competitive practices in said markets.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof  as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Developing the financial markets into a more efficient intermediation 
channel
1.
Improving the functioning of the market
Execution of studies for determining mechanisms, legally and technically viable 
and sustainable, for:  (a) upgrading the pricing, trading, custodial, clearing, 
settlement and payment systems; (b) promoting inter-connection and cross-listing 
across domestic and international exchanges; (c) harmonizing different types of 
existing and prospective securities; and (d) developing and promoting new types of  
trading instruments, such as short sales and repos.
2.
Developing the market for public securities
(a)
Development of primary and secondary markets for public securities 
through review and, if warranted, reform of: (i) financial and tax regulatory 
constraints that have so far impeded the deepening of the market and the emergence of 
market makers and primary dealers; (ii) borrowing financial management systems used by 
the Borrower’s Treasury; and (iii) current depository function mechanisms.
(b)
Establishment of: (i) a methodology for controlling risks in the market; 
(ii) regulations and standards for market operations of Territorial Entities offering 
public securities; and (iii) information systems to monitor the market for such 
securities.
(c)
Training and dissemination activities for government officials, 
regulatory agencies and key market participants.
3. 
Promoting greater participation of institutional investors
in the financial markets
Reviewing and, if warranted, revising regulations governing portfolio management 
of institutional investors, and  helping them to develop technical capabilities to 
assess and manage risks inherent to instruments such as mutual funds, life insurance, 
and pension and severance payment funds.
Part B:
Strengthening regulatory and supervision capacity in the financial sector
1.
Harmonization and refinement of the regulatory framework
Analysis and review of the overall regulatory framework for the entities 
operating in the financial sector, including the evaluation of the desirability of 
establishing specialized courts to deal with financial sector operations and 
institutions and, if warranted, preparing proposals to carry out consequential legal 
and regulatory norms.
2.
Strengthening institutional capacity for supervision and regulation of the 
financial markets
(i)
Provision of international exposure, practical experience and 
training to 
staff of the Securities and Banking Superintendencies 
to increase their 
knowledge of state of the art financial 
instruments and supervisory approaches 
and techniques and to support a 
more modern institutional model of 
supervision; and
(ii)
strengthen the policy formulation and regulation capacity in the 
Vice Ministry 
and training of its staff.
3.
Creation of a new regulatory and supervisory framework for the Cooperative 
Sector  
Page  12
Preparation and issuance of the corresponding regulations to the law or laws to 
be enacted under the Cooperative Sector Legal Framework and provision of technical 
assistance, if warranted, to support the establishment, staffing and institutional 
strengthening of the entity or entities related to such Framework. 
Part C:
Increasing the supply of securities and the availability of other 
financial instruments
1.
Increasing the supply of securities 
(a)
Review and analysis of changes required in the current Borrower’s laws, 
including the Commercial Code, and regulations to reduce disincentives for companies 
to go public, including procedures required for public offerings of securities; and
(b)
(i)
training for regulators, supervisors, brokers, staff of financial 
corporations, and potential suppliers and buyers of securities, including courses, 
seminars and workshops; and (ii) market promotion through dissemination activities, 
and production and distribution of related publications and information materials.
2.
Introducing and promoting new financial instruments
(a)
promotion of new instruments such as securitization, venture capital 
funds and derivatives markets, through: 
(i)
development of standards to measure and account for the riskiness 
of such 
instruments;
(ii)
review and analysis of all legal and regulatory aspects and 
implications of 
introducing such instruments (including creation of 
securitization companies, 
venture capital funds as independent legal 
entities or as authorized 
operations of already existing funds, 
and organized derivatives markets and 
exchanges);
(iii)
training activities involving market participants, regulators, 
supervisors, 
and/or policy makers and members of the Borrower’s Judicial 
and Legislative 
Branches; and 
(iv)
dissemination activities, all as applicable; and
(b)
development of strategies for the establishment of housing leasing and 
education finance schemes through similar activities, mutatis mutandis to those 
referred to in (a) above, including activities related to the conversion of ICETEX 
into a second tier lending institution, and in assistance for policy formulation for 
both, or other similar schemes.
Part D:
Consolidating the Social Security Reform
 1.
Implementing the transfer of pension liabilities of Territorial Entities to the 
General Pension System
Supporting the transfer process  through the provision of technical assistance 
for: (a) the reconstruction of employment histories of employees of the Territorial 
Entities, including training of national and regional coordinators and data 
collectors; and (b) the calculation of the pension liabilities of said Entities.
2.
Institutional strengthening of the Pension  Delegatura 
Strengthening Pension Delegatura’s supervisory capacities, by means of, inter 
alia, the sharing of experiences and, to the extent possible, exchanging of views on 
supervision and systems auditing with pension supervisory agencies of other countries 
and training of said  Delegatura’s staff.
3.
Institutional strengthening of Institute 
Assisting Institute in devising a strategy for upgrading its information system 
so as to improve financial management, collection records and procedures and client 
Page  13
services data in all aspects of the application of the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Law 100 (referred to in paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of this Loan Agreement), 
including verification of eligibility for pension benefits under said Law.
4.
Continue implementation of the General Pension System
(a)
Compiling all norms pertaining to the General Pension System and 
explanatory texts thereof, and assist the Territorial Entities in ensuring compliance 
with all such norms; and
(b)
monitor the experience in the implementation of the General Pension 
System, including fine-tuning of the regulations to accommodate over time development 
of experience gained in said implementation.
Part E: 
Development of a system of financial intelligence geared to detecting 
corrupt and 
fraudulent practices through otherwise legal financial 
transactions
1.
Structuring of the UIIF, as  initial step leading to the establishment of the 
Intelligence System 
Detail designing of the UIIF so as to ensure that it will be able, once the 
Intelligence Framework has been established and UIIF formally created and the steps 
required to phase in the Intelligence System have been determined, to guide the 
collection, monitoring and analysis of the information gathered by the supervisory 
institutions and the public and private transaction agents subject to their 
supervision, including: (a) preparation of UIIF’s procedures, operational manuals and 
organizational and staffing structure and strengthening of the monitoring and 
supervisory activities of the Banking and Securities Superintendencies (and other 
supervisory entities as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time) so as 
to ensure their ability to gather and collect pertinent and reliable data and 
information; (b) design of the norms and procedures to put in place the Intelligence 
System; (c) provision to UIIF of data gathering and information processing systems; 
(d) drafting of the Intelligence Framework required in order to put in place the 
Intelligence System; and (e) initial training of future UIIF staff.
2.
Implementation of the Intelligence System in the Borrower’s Banking, Securities 
and Companies Superintendencies which supervise and control transactions in the 
securities market and operation of Colombian companies, respectively, and other 
supervising entities, including those strengthened under Part E.1. above.
(i)
Development of information systems to incorporate to the 
Intelligence System 
Banking, Securities and Companies 
Superintendencies, as well as other entities 
whose monitoring and 
supervision capabilities may be, in the opinion of the 
Borrower and 
the Bank, adequate for that purpose; and 
(ii)
strengthening of their respective institutional capacities to 
detect 
fraudulent and other illegal transactions by means of 
creating specialized 
units in each Superintendency and other 
entity and training of their 
respective staff.
3.
Expansion of the coverage of the Intelligence System to additional economic 
sectors
Establishment and development of information systems to incorporate the control, 
registration or supervision entities related to matters such as foreign exchange 
transactions, customs, taxation, land and rights on land transactions and 
self-propelled vehicles, etc., and mutatis mutandis, execution of the same tasks as in 
2 above but in connection with such entities.
Part F:
Development of competition enhancement and anti-trust policy 
capacity
Reinforcement of the legal framework and mechanisms provided by the Borrower’s 
Law  155 of 1959 and Decree Law 2153 of 1992 and of the Borrower’s  Delegatura para la 
promoción de la competencia (Competition Promotion Delegation), through the 
Page  14
development of institutional know-how on policy and substantive areas and procedural 
matters, preparation of guidelines, issuance of additional regulatory norms, 
infrastructure development, such as anti-trust library, data base and a specialized 
local area network, analysis of investigations of mergers and anti-competitive 
practices and training of corresponding staff.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2001. 
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  15
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for value on 
the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest 
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of 
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
Page  16
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedure
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Computer equipment for Part B.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $150,000 per contract, upto an aggregate amount of $300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, as supplemented by the provisions of Part E 
of this Schedule.
Before issuing any invitation to bid under this procedure, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, appropriate model bidding 
documents. Once approved, the Borrower shall use said model, as approved, for bidding 
under the Project. Any change to or departure from the model so approved, shall 
require Bank’s prior approval.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
Page  17
more, and to each contract procured pertinent to the provisions of Part C.1 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:  Procurement Provisions Concerning National Competitive Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
Page  18
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for training services or for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
providers of training services or consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  19
