Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22207
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26100; PPFI-P7490; PPFI-P7491)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.4 MILLION
(US$11.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
ALBANIA
FOR THE
DURRES WATER AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 15, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal May, 31 1993)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek I = US$ 0.009467
US$ I = Lek 105.63
(Exchange Rate Effective at Closing Date October, 5 2000)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek I  = US$ 0.006668
US$ I = Lek 149.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km = Kilometer (0.621 miles)
I = Liter (0.264 US Gallons
lI/cd = Liters per capita per day
I/sec = Liters per second (15.8 Gallons per minute)
m3 = Cubic meter (264 Gallons)
m3/sec = Cubic meters per second (22.8 million gallons per day)
Mm3 = Million cubic meters (264 million gallons)
FISCAL YEAR
ALBANIAN GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA                         Development Credit Agreement
DCSW                        Durres City Sewerage Works
DDWW                        Durres District Water Works
DWSR                        Durres Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation
DDSW                        Duffes District Sewerage Works
DWP                         Durres Rehabilitation Project
GOA                         Govemrnment of Albania
GPRS                        Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ICB                         Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                         Intemational Development Association
IRR                         Intemal Rate of Retum
IS                          Intemational Shopping
LCB                         Local Competitive Bidding
METAP                       Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance
Program
MIS                         Management Information System
MOC                         Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territory
Adjustmnent
MTR                         Mid Term Review
PCR                         Project Completion Report
PIU                          Project Preparation Unit
PMR                         Project Management Report
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SOE                         Statement of Expenditure
SSW                         Shijak Sewerage Works
TA                          Technical Assistance
UFW                          Unaccounted for Water
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andreas Rohde



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    17
9. Partner Comments                                                                   19
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 31
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 36
Annex 10. Boffowees Contribution to the ICR                                           42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008260                                        Project Name: DURRES WATER SUPPLY
REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Andreas Rohde                                 TL Unit. ECSIN
ICR Tvpe: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 15, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION    L/C/TF Number: IDA-26100;
PPFI-P7490;
PPFI-P7491
CountrylDepartment: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: WS - Sewerage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/01/92                                 Effective:  01/04/95
Appraisal:  05/11/93                                   MTR: 06/01/97
Approval:  05/10/94                                 Closing:  12/31/2001          10/05/2000
Borrower/ImplementingAgency:  GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/DURRES WW
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortrnan                     Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Ricardo Halperin                           Rory O'Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:   Andreas Rohde                              Richard MacEwen
ICR Primary Author:   Andreas Rohde; Arben
Bakllamaja
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainabilitv: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The objectives and the design of the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (DWP) need to
be assessed in the context of (i) the exceptional economic, political and institutional conditions; and (ii) the
situation of the water sector prevailing in Albania at the time of project preparation. When project
preparation started in 1992, Albania experienced the breakdown of the centrally planned economic system
and it was unclear what would take its place. The water supply and sanitation sector was still totally
centralized, including investment decisions and tariff setting. Since the mid eighties, when Albania broke
relations with China, no significant investment had been undertaken. The national uniform water supply
tariff was much too low to cover operation and maintenance cost. The resulting maintenance neglect led to
accelerated deterioration of the physical assets.  The operation of water supply services was the
responsibility of District Water Supply Utilities and wastewater services were provided by municipal
departments. At that time there were no fees for wastewater discharge. The Government was unable to
respond to the further deterioration of water supply and wastewater services and had no strategic approach
to reform and improve the sector.
The original main objectives of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to:
*   eliminate water shortages and associated health risks to the existing population in the project area; and
*   establish a strong local institutional framework for the provision of water supply and sewerage
services, so that the improvements would be sustainable.
However, the SAR stated (chapter 8.7) that only 42 percent of the customers in the project area would
experience substantial improvements. The project estimated that improvements would be achieved despite
the anticipated population growth in the service area (SAR p. 101).
It was essential to strengthen the local authorities and make them responsible for water supply and
wastewater services. These objectives were also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy's
objectives of poverty reduction and environmental protection. Under the present conditions prevailing in
Albania, where central government functions generally have broken down only strong, locally managed
institutions are capable of providing water to the poorer parts of the population and simultaneously
protecting the environment.
Both objectives were clear and appeared to be achievable at the time of project preparation. However,
establishing a strong local institutional framework was very demanding for both the Government, which
was inexperienced with the process of transferring responsibilities from the central to the local level, and
the local utility, which lacked the experience to assume full responsibility for all aspects of service delivery
and financial management.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project originally comprised the following six components: i
A.    Water Supply and transmission: (a) well field pump station rehabilitation; (b) Fushe Kruja
well field pump replacement; (c) booster pump station rehabilitation
B.    Water Distribution: (a) distribution network rehabilitation; b) reservoir No. 2 addition
C.    Water Loss Reduction: (a) source and district metering; (b) demand management
action program
D.    Sewerage: (a) Durres Pump Station rehabilitation; (b) Durres collection system
rehabilitation; (c) Shijak trunk sewer
E.    Institutional Strengthening (Water Supply): (a) Management TA; (b) Water Supply
master plan updating; (c) office reconstruction; (d) O&M equipment (water);
(e) Fushe Kuqe well field expansion design
F.    Institutional Strengthening (Sewerage): (a) Management TA; (b) Sewerage master plan;
(c) O&M equipment (sewerage)
In addition, USAID has provided technical assistance to strengthen the commercial management of the
DDWW. The project components were designed to achieve the stated objectives. They addressed the
physical rehabilitation of the obsolete system to improve its functioning, reduce the losses, increase the
water pressure and balance the water distribution throughout the city. The metering program aimed to
improve the demand management of the water company to reduce waste, misuse and overconsumption.
The TA component included (i) a twinning arrangement with a well performing water utility; and (ii) the
computerization of the billing and collection system of the DDWW. Both were aimed at improving the
commercial operation of the water company. The twinning arrangement however was not carried out
during project implementation, because DDWW and the local government did not support this component
and delayed the implementation. The unrest that arose after the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997
then made it difficult to recruit a twinning partner. At that time the Bank decided that this component could
not be implemented in a timely manner, and therefore dropped it. The Bank had overestimated the
willingness and capacity of the utility and local authorities to implement institutional changes. The TA
component was dropped instead of implementing it in early 1998, when the political situation was stable
enough. Instead, the Bank decided to improve the DDWW's managerial capacity by supporting the
preparation of a management contract for Durres, and mobilized a PHRD grant for its preparation in May
1998. The Bank's assumption that a management contract could be implemented quickly, so that the
twinning arrangement would be obsolete, was far too optimistic.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major revision of components besides dropping the TA-twinning component.
To meet the demand of future population growth, industrial or tourism developments, a subsequent improvement phase was
envisaged with an estimated cost of $17 million. Until now, the DDWW has not been able to secure the funding for this
additional improvement phase. However, the DDWW is one of four utilities receiving financing under the Bank-financed
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project (Total: US$14.7 million) and is included in the proposed Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project (Total estimated: US$22 million).
-3 -



3.5 Qualiti' at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory mainly because of major flaws in the project design. The
project was the first Bank operation in the water sector in Albania and the Bank intended to use the project
to promote sector policy changes and introduce Western style operations and management concepts of
public service utilities to the sector.  The project objectives regarding institutional strengthening
(transferring responsibility to local authorities) and financial viability were too ambitious to be achieved.
The project was designed at a time when Albania was in the early stage of the transition from a communist
regime to a market economy. At that time the borrower was not fully committed to reforming the sector.
The Bank failed to design a project that took into account the weakness and reluctance of the central and
local government levels to reform the sector and to transfer responsibilities to the local level. Also the
project design did not provide sufficient support to reform the sector as a whole, and thereby made it
impossible for the DDWW to implement the required changes. At the pre-appraisal review meeting it was
recommended that a sector study needed to be carried out as soon as possible. However, this never
happened and institutional issues were not addressed in a comprehensive way. The implementation of the
twinning arrangement should have been followed up more forcefully. In conclusion, through a careful
analysis of the policy and institutional aspects, the project could have been better designed.
The project was rated unsatisfactory during implementation because of the unsatisfactory financial
performance of the DDWW. The legal covenants required a working ratio no higher than 60 percent in FY
94 and FY 95 and no higher than 55 percent thereafter. The main reasons why these targets were not
achieved were the non-payment by Kavaja, an adjacent city that receives bulkwater (25 percent of
revenues), and a two-thirds reduction of revenues already in the first project year, due to a steep fall of
sales to industrial and commercial customers. The SAR (chapter 6.4) mentioned that non-payment and late
payment by industrial customers was DDWW's main problem, and that "the situation is exacerbated by the
present economic situation in Albania and will cause increasingly serious problems for the DDWW if the
problem is not addressed". The financial forecast assumed that from 1992 to 1994 industrial sales would
decline by 30 percent, mainly because of metering, but increase until the year 2001 slightly, close to the
amount at appraisal. In practice industrial sales declined by 90 percent over the life of the project, due to
the collapse of the industry. This overly optimistic forecast is a major reason for the unsatisfactory rating
of the project during implementation and at closing. The project implementation schedule was well
designed, as the minor disbursement lag over the project period shows.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The project overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
The first development objective: to establish a strong local institutional framework for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services, so that the improvements would be sustainable, was not met. This is
obvious as the DDWW failed to become financially self-sufficient. By the last quarter of 1999 the working
ratio stood at 1.6; far from the 0.55 target of the financial covenant.
The stated first development objective was actually unachievable after the steep decline in sales to
industrial customers (which could not be offset by the five-fold increase of the domestic tariff, that went far
- 4 -



beyond the SAR target) and the Bank's agreement that the Twinning Arrangement could not be
implemented, due to the dramatic changes the pyramid schemes unrest and the Kosovo conflict brought to
the project area. In addition the anticipated Government actions to raise tariffs, remove illegal connections,
assist in the resolution of non-payments by the city of Kavaja for bulkwater supply, and to shut off
non-paying customers did not happen, since the Government had to focus on more urgent political
priorities.
The influx of people into the project area as a result of migration for safety reasons during the pyramid
scheme's lawlessness, and during the Kosovo conflict, taxed the community's water and wastewater
services, and put its financial improvement objectives low on the priority list. This was reflected in the
decreased collection performance and the increased number of illegal connections. The impact of these
significant changes is reflected in the financial performance of DDWW.
One of the issues critical to the utility's ability to improve its financial performance was the assumption in
the SAR of an increase in industrial sales. For a number of reasons, none of them related to this project or
the water sector, this growth did not materialize. In fact sales declined sharply in the first year of the
project. The second issue critical to the achievement of financial goals was the assumption that the
Government would assure that the city of Kavaja would pay for the bulkwater received. This did not
happen either and Kavaja's arrears reduced DDWW's cash revenues by approximately one quarter.
In addition, the Government did not liberalize the national uniform water supply tariffs until July 1998. At
that time it established a Utility Regulatory Commission with tariff methodology and tariff setting powers.
Even then, the tariff the Government allowed Durres to charge was 70 percent of what was requested and
needed. Over the period, the number of utility employees remained constant, but labor and social costs
increased by 100 percent and the energy price increased by 50 percent. All of these factors had an impact
on the ability of DDWW to attain the project objective. However, the DDWW was able to achieve
productivity gains and also reduced the number of employees per one thousand connections from 12.0 to
8.8.
The decision to reduce the institutional strengthening module of the project will impact the maintenance and
operation of the system as well as the sustainability of limited project achievements. The SAR detailed the
need to provide assistance in the areas of accounting, billing and collection, financial management,
information and maintenance management. This was intended to be implemented through a twinning
arrangement with a qualified water company from a developed country. Only the computerization of the
billing and collection system was accomplished, thanks to the TA provided by USAID, but it finished just
at the end of the project life and without proper assistance for capacity building in running the program
properly. The effort to computerize the billing and collection system was interrupted by the Kosovo
situation, as well as by the unreliable availability of electric power. The resolution of the electrical scarcity
was only found during the last six months of the project.
The Bank did request policy changes from the Government, e.g., the removal of the cap on tariffs to
comply with the cost recovery policy, but it was difficult for the Government to implement these changes
without having a clear new sector policy and strategy. Although the Bank emphasized the need for policy
changes in the SAR, it did not provide assistance to the GOA to undertake the policy changes in the sector
and develop a strategy. Only recently, in the framework of the new Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
Project and the proposed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project,  is the Bank supporting the
Government in developing a water sector strategy.
- 5 -



The second development objective of eliminating water shortages and associated health risks in the
project area was partially met. The target of 6-24 hours of water supply per day, up from 2-6 hours at
project start, could not be achieved. After the project, the duration of water supply is 2-3 hours per day in
winter and 0-2 hours per day in the summer.
The efforts to address water shortages and diminish the associated health risks is still ongoing in the
DDWW even though progress was made within the project. Well pump replacement and rehabilitation, the
booster pump station rehabilitation, and the rehabilitation of a segment of the distribution network have
made possible the provision of potable water to an additional 9,200 connections, an increase of 36 percent.
The rehabilitation has given the DDWW the ability to manage the pressurizing of its distribution zones.
Although parts of the network were successfully rehabilitated and losses in this area significantly reduced,
the number of hours of water supply could not be increased. This was mainly due to uncontrolled
consumption, rapid migration in the service area, but outside of the rehabilitation area, rapid increase of
illegal connections, and the high rate of technical losses outside of the rehabilitation area. The civil unrest
during 1997 in Albania led to a break down of law and order in the country. The looting of barracks
provided almost every Albanian family with firearms, which they were ready to use in order to protect their
illegal connections. This made it impossible for all Albanian water utilities to control consumption
effectively. This situation continued after 1997. In the rural areas around Durres, the consumption of the
population, which represents about 38 percent of the total population in the service area, has increased to
about 50 percent of the water produced. Thus, Durres city is receiving 20 percent less water than before
the project. In the aftermath of the civil unrest, political stability remained fragile and restoring law and
order was a slow process. The Bank decided not to make any effort in assisting the DDWW to restore
control of consumption in the rural area, before the political stability was restored to a certain degree.
Therefore this has been addressed only recently as part of the new Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
project, that became effective in July 2000.
Conventional methods to measure production, distribution zone delivery, and total consumer usage are still
not available. The project work planned to accomplish this was outside of Durres city, and the
aforementioned events prevented implementation. However, these issues are currently being addressed
under the follow-up project, the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project.
Many of the available statistics are questionable and therefore may not support improvement in time of
service and reduction in unaccounted for water. One example of a statistic that does not correlate with the
stated improvements is the number of population reported by the Durres District office. The District
population growth statistic appears to be relatively in line with the SAR estimates, a steady growth from
25,000 to 30,000 families. This statistic is compiled from registered, documented families. Usually to apply
for water services, proof of documentation is required by the water company. However during the political
unrest that took place while the project was implemented, the DDWW waived that requirement and
provided service under a temporary contract to approximately 4,200 more families than the official District
statistics indicate.
Sewer system improvements were accomplished to meet the project's objective of diminishing health risks
by moving the discharge point far from the Durres harbor entrance, cleaning and rehabilitating the main
collector system and rehabilitating the two main pumping stations. Since this work was completed, raw
wastewater discharge near the beach area is diverted away from the beach and there has been no reported
incidents of water contamination, flooding or unusual odor in the project area. This is a major achievement
considering the civil unrest prevailing over most of the project's implementation period. In this specific
area, the project is rated successful.
-6 -



As outlined in the SAR (chapter 1.5), the project contributed to achieving the CAS core program
objectives categories for Albania: poverty reduction and protection of the environment.
There was progress towards achieving the project objective to contribute to poverty alleviation by making
water service available to all the population in the city and at affordable prices to the urban poor. All
residents of the city have access to water from the system. Although the current domestic tariffs are five
times as much as prior to the project start-up, the flat rate charged for water consumption represents only
about 2.3 percent of a poor family's monthly income. The forecast in the SAR was that the domestic tariff
cost would represent about 2.8 percent of a poor urban family's monthly income. According to the Bank's
CAS for Albania, poor families are defined as those that have less then $28 per capita per month.
The mid-term review (MTR) did not take place. The Bank scheduled the review only for March 2000,
which made no sense considering that the original closing date was December 31, 2001. Because of the
suspension and early termination of the project in October 2000, a mid-term review at that time would not
have made any sense either. A timely scheduled mid-term review would have helped to better assess
project risk, the shortcomings of the DDWW's management capacity, the deviations between project targets
and the present situation, and the unanticipated sector crisis. It might have led to a better considered project
restructuring and this could have contributed to a possible reallocation of the resources to meet revised
development objectives. The MTR could have discussed the following key corrections:
*   Restructuring instead of dropping the technical assistance;
X   Developing agreement on realistic financial targets and on the measures required to achieve them;
*   Redirecting the metering program to the niral areas where overconsumption and misuse occurs;
-   Constructing distribution systems in newly developed areas.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Under the project, six components (A-F plus preparation) were financed. The following provides an
evaluation of the achievements of the outputs by component:
Well field pump station rehabilitation, well field pump replacement, and booster pump station
rehabilitation (US$2.91 million SAR, US$4.46 million actual): In spite of the unrest outside Durres city,
the work to rehabilitate the well field pump station, and the booster station, as well as the replacement of
the Fushe Kruja well field pump were completed within the project schedule. The cost increase is due to
additional works in rehabilitating the pumping station and an increase in taxes and duties over the
implementation period from 6.5 percent to 30 percent. The additional works became possible due to savings
in other components.
Water distribution network rehabilitation and reservoir No. 2 addition (US$8.4 million SAR, US$ 7.0
million actual): The selected distribution systems of Durres city, Shkozet, Plazh and Shijak were
rehabilitated. Thirty-seven kilometers-of mains, twenty-six kilometers of service lines were replaced,
' In these areas, people seem to be able and willing to pay. However, because no distribution system is present, people illegally
connect to nearby water mains. The utility did not convert them to legal customers because they were in an area without a
distribution system, and technically it is not cost effective to put water meters on these connections. In addition, DDWW was
not willing to disconnect these illegal customers because DDWW could not offer any alternative service to them. This generates
a loss of potential revenues and significant water losses at the improperly installed connections and illegal "network."
- 7 -



and three hundred and sixty main values were replaced under the program. In the project area, water
availability went from 55 1 per consumer per day to 76 1 per consumer per day. Pressure in the lines was
increased resulting in water being available on higher floors in buildings as well as an increase in time
available. The percentage of unaccounted for water (UFW) in the rehabilitated area decreased from about
50 percent to about 30 percent of the total water inflow into the area. The addition to reservoir two has
been constructed, however, due to the insufficient quantity of water reaching Durres city, it can seldom be
used to increase the pressure and supply the outskirts of the city. The lower than estimated costs are due to
the low price of the winning bid, which was substantially lower than the other bids.
Source and district metering, water loss reduction, and demand management plan (US$0.75 million
SAR, US$ 2.36 million actual): Critical to loss reduction is the ability to measure production, district,
and consumer volumes. Late in the project the meters were installed at source points, unfortunately they
were not installed in the other required flow areas. Again, the unrest in rural areas contributed to this
problem. Nevertheless, under the ongoing Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project, the metering
system will eventually be completed.
The customer-metering segment of this component provided for 24,000 customer meters, both domestic and
commercial. Of that amount 15,400 domestic meters and 65 commercial meters were installed. The balance
of the available meters is intended for rural areas and was not installed because of civil unrest. It should be
mentioned here that revenues decreased when meters were installed in the city. This is due to the fact that
the flat tariff which was in place before the meters were installed, was based on the assumption that 150
I/capita per day were used. Because of the scarcity of water, customers can only consume about 76 1/
capita per day. Thus the amount billed after meter installation declined.
Although the importance of the demand management component was recognized its implementation was
flawed. The SAR recommended installing 20,000 domestic water meters. However, no provision was made
to install them outside the rehabilitated areas. The areas of rehabilitation were mainly urban areas at the
end of the supply system that received only 76 Vc*d, much less than required. Thus metering cannot reduce
water consumption in these areas. Metering should be introduced in areas of high water consumption,
which are the mostly rural areas connected to the transmission main before the main service reservoir
(estimated supply 420 I/c*d, physical losses unknown). The installation of domestic water meters in areas
where water was scarce, and not in the areas of overconsumption with widespread misuse of water made it
impossible to achieve the objective of the demand management component. However, it would have been
impossible to install domestic water meters in these rural areas without some improvements to the rural
network. Investments in the rural areas were not foreseen by the SAR. In addition, the political unrest and
the weakness of DDWW would have made it a challenge to tackle the issue of metering the rural areas.
Nevertheless, the problem of water shortages in Durres city cannot be resolved without reducing the
overconsumption in the rural areas. The increase in actual versus estimated cost is because the cost
estimation only includes the price for the water meters, and the cost for installation and additional parts
(protection box, stop valves, non-return valves etc.) was left out in the estimate.
Sewerage: Rehabilitation of sewage pumping station and of the Durres and Shijak sewerage and
drainage collection system (US$0.57 million SAR, US$0.57 million actual): The main sewerage
collection system in Durres and Shijak was rehabilitated and cleaned. Eight pumping stations were
rehabilitated. The discharge point of the system has been relocated to a point far from the entrance to
Durres harbor. With the completion of this effort there has been a significant reduction of sea water
pollution near the Durres beach area and no flooding, odor, or contamination in the rehabilitated area has
been reported.
-8 -



Institutional strengthening - Water Supply (US$1.78 million SAR, US$1.21 million actual): The
original component of this project segment was broad (twinning, financial, information and maintenance
management), but unfortunately was not implemented. Only two segments, office reconstruction and as
part of the Management TA, as well as computerizing billing and collections, were implemented. This
reduction in scope is responsible for the lower than estimated cost of the component. The office
reconstruction allowed for the separation of functions in finance, billing, and collecting and created an
acceptable work area.
The computerized billing and collection system implementation was hampered by the periods of civil unrest
and an unreliable electricity supply. Given those handicaps it still should have progressed beyond the test
Arka (Cashier) booth before the project ended. Finally it did introduce an acceptable system and provided,
from hands-on experience, training to the office staff and was capable of billing approximately 25 percent
of its consumers with the system. It is expected that the present management and the possible future
management currently being proposed under a Management Contract will benefit from this effort.
Institutional Strengthening-Sewerage (US$0.74 million SAR, US$0.25 million actual): Only cleaning
and repair equipment was funded under this component. The major segment, a Sewerage Master Plan,
appeared to be unrealistic at that time and was not funded because of the rapid changing and uncertain
demographics of the project area. This reduction in scope is responsible for the lower than estimated cost of
the component.
All investment components were completed on or before time which brought additional benefits, by
improving the physical conditions of the system earlier than anticipated.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In appraising this project the estimated cost and benefit streams were compiled and the net present value
and internal rate of return were calculated over a 25-year period. The internal rate of return was estimated
at appraisal at 10.58 percent. The amount that people were willing to pay per cubic meter of water
consumed was chosen as a proxy to measure benefits accruing from the project. The ERR as calculated in
the SAR does not have much economic meaning, because the conditions that existed in Albania during the
project years were markedly different from any scenario that could have been forecast:
*   The projected water consumption with the project did not result in the forecasted increase from 14.3 to
17.4 million cubic meters a year in the ERR calculation. On the contrary, sales declined to 7 million
cubic meters.
*   The assumption of the SAR that water consumption without the project would decline by only 2.5
percent per year seems overly optimistic. It is more likely that without the rehabilitation of the pumping
station and the other works, the system would have at least partially collapsed.
*   The 0 & M economic costs assumption in the SAR was a steady amount of US$403,000 US$ per
annum from 1999 through 2018 which is based partially upon electricity cost of US$/kwh 0.026. The
true economic cost of electricity is estimated to be US$0.04/kwh, nearly twice as high as assumed in
the SAR. Other input costs seem to be underestimated as well, especially wage and salary costs.
Overall the 0 & M costs calculated with constant prices were much higher than the projected economic
cost in the SAR in 2000.
*   Tariffs never were sufficiently adjusted to meet operating and maintenance expenses.
*   The managerial capacity of the DDWW was not addressed.
-9-



* The influx of families into the service area and the armament of almost the entire population created a
significant increase of illegal and non paying connections, estimated to be 40% of all customers during
the peak in 1997.
* Meter installation was badly targeted and did not achieve the anticipated results.
* The dangers in enforcing any of the necessary controls in the system increased substantially due to the
political unrest in 1997.
Attempting to reappraise the project with the project's original assumptions is not realistic. In fact the data
available at the DDWW is suspect when compared with known physical facts. For example, the DDWW is
billing 9,400 more connections in 2000 than in 1994, but the amount of cubic meters billed is the same.
This can only partially be explained by the increase in metered connections. Quality of service has
improved. Yet, using the value of cubic meters of water consumed as the measure of benefits from the
project indicates none have accrued. The attempt to forecast from this flawed base for the remaining 18
years of the project has limited statistical value and applying rate of return or net present value analysis to
the data available may produce meaningless results. However, using the same structure for the economic
analysis that was used in the SAR (see SAR Annex 19, ICR Annex 3), the ERR calculated in the SAR was
10.58 percent and the recalculated ERR in the ICR is 6.77 percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return on the DDWW net cash flow was not calculated for the SAR or for this
document. The DDWW had a positive cash flow situation until 1993. Since 1994, a year before the project
was implemented, the DDWW became a loss making utility. The financial forecasts in the SAR assumed
that during project implementation, the DDWW's revenues would cover only cash operating expenses, the
service fees on the IDA credit and the financing of a US$ 2 million investrnent in the project.
During the six years of the project (1995-1999) operating revenues increased by about 94 percent (in
constant prices) and yet net operating income has been negative from 1995 through 2000. In the SAR
forecast billed water was at 65 percent of production and receivables at 40 percent of billing in 2000. In
fact, the figures are 27 percent and 40 percent respectively. In 1999, with a 67 percent increase in tariffs in
July, the DDWW was able to improve its working ratio from 1.85 to 1.44. However, it is still well above
the projected goal of 0.55 for that year. The level of the working ratio clearly indicates DDWW's
unsustainable financial condition. In section 4.3 above, many of the difficulties that affected the financial
performance of the DDWW are listed.
Billing and uncollectible receivables.
The DDWW is presently billing only 27 percent of water produced. That is approximately the same
percent as when the project began. However, it is a fact that more customers are being billed, that the
distribution system in urban Durres has been rehabilitated and pumping capabilities improved. The
apparent reason for the lack of measurable improvement in volume billed is the increased number of illegal
connections along the transmission mains in the rural areas and in the home sites around the city. These
have grown uncontrollably because of the immigration during the past four years. The Government of
Albania does not have a mechanism or the will to use its powers to alleviate that situation. Even if there
was an acceptable tariff, revenues are not going to be generated from these illegal users until the
government addresses this issue.
Another unbillable category is the water (nominally assumed to amount to 150 I/capita per day) sold in the
- 10 -



unmetered rural area. This is an unrealistic figure given that water is often used there to maintain livestock
and even to water small gardens, especially since the irrigation system collapsed and no other water sources
are available.
In the SAR it was estimated that about 75 percent of the revenues would come from industry and
commercial/governmental customers, and 15 percent from domestic customers in 2000. In fact the reverse
happened, about 18 percent and 76 percent of the revenues came from the productive sectors and from
domestic customers respectively. Because of the rapid privatization and liberalization of the Albanian
economy, most of the state industries were closed down in early 1990. During 1990-2000, industrial
production declined steadily. In 1999 the industrial production in Durres District was 39 percent of what
it had been in 1995 (in constant prices).
The removal of the cap on water tariffs took place with a delay of four years. The new water tariffs for
domestic use increased by five times compared with 1995. The current domestic tariff is US$0.25 per cubic
meter in 2000, much above the US$0.068 projected in the SAR. The current average tariff is US$0.262 per
cubic meter, also above the US$0.164 projected in the SAR. However, even with the actual average tariff
above the SAR forecast, total sales in 1999 were only 50 percent of the sales projected in the SAR. This is
mainly due to the lower than expected amount of water billed. Only a small fraction of the decline in water
billed can be attributed to increasing tariffs, but rather can be attributed to declining industrial production,
water shortages, and insufficient registration of domestic and commercial customers .
The second consideration in reviewing the DDWW's financial situation is the high percentage of
uncollected receivables. When the SAR was prepared, the DDWW had a collection ratio of 89 percent of
its accounts billed. The SAR included sales growth of 47 percent, while accounts receivable increased only
43 percent in the projections, indicating an improvement in the collection ratio during the project.
There are three main factors affecting the uncollected receivables: the bulkwater supply for the city of
Kavaja, government and commercial accounts, and domestic accounts. In 1999 the collection ratio overall
was 60 percent, a decline from 89 percent in 1994.
:      Kavaja only paid 7 percent of its 1999 bill, while in 1994 it paid its entire bill.
*      Government and commercial accounts paid 56 percent in 1999 and 86 percent in 1994.
:      Domestic accounts paid 67 percent in 1999 and 89 percent in 1994."
The DDWW has little leverage in trying to collect from Kavaja and from the government/commercial
section. This group represents about 28 percent of its sales. Promised government involvement has not
materialized. The Bank did not raise as a major issue the fact that since June 1994, the Government was in
non-compliance with the legal covenant, that "the Borrower has to make adequate arrangements for
DDWW to receive, annually, funds equal to the DDWW's marginal cost in respect of the water provided
to the Kavaja District Water Works." Uncollected receivables are a major problem in the Albanian water
sector and efforts in public education, government example, and law enforcement are necessary to resolve
this issue.
The IDA credit was onlent to the DDWW by the Ministry of Finance through a subsidiary loan agreement.
Under current financial conditions, DDWW will be incapable of repaying the IDA credit.
Every day after the due date of the invoice, the DDWW charges one percent interest rate on the amount due. This rapidly
increases the amount so that many customers decide not to pay their invoice at all.
- 11 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
Any benefit or impact from institutional development was negligible or minimal under this project. In the
DCA Article III, section 3.01(a), (i), (ii), the DDWW was to be responsible for project implementation
with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) reporting to the DDWW. The Ministry of Public Works
managed the project with the PIU reporting directly to the Ministry. Though the DDWW was involved in
the project with its own staff, it did not have the ownership that comes with hands on involvement nor did it
play the primary role in the project implementation. In fact, the management role also produced a strained
relationship between the utility and the project contractors. Had the relationship been different, both parties
could have worked together to advance the project's objectives.
The lack of a comprehensive TA segment impacted negatively on the utilities' ability to develop adequate
management skills to provide system rehabilitation and operation management including contract
management, design and supervision. The DDWW's financial and other basic information systems were
poor and in no way coordinated. There are different systems for billing, collecting, inventory and other
accounting tasks. Separate unrelated departments perform these tasks and when coordination is needed to
provide a required government report, a reconciliation of accounts is performed. The liability of this
arrangement can be seen in the conflicting data presented at different times by the utility and the lack of any
analytical review of operating or financial results.
Failure to implement an institutional development component contributed to the unsatisfactory rating of the
project. It is unfortunate that the Bank did not find a way to implement the institutional strengthening
requirement discussed in the SAR, DCA, and PA. Also, the requested merger of the Shijak and Durres
sewerage enterprises under one management only happened on paper, never in actuality. Only recently,
was DDWW transformed into a commercial company.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Some of these factors may have been pointed out in other segments of this report, but their impact on the
project's outcome bear repeating. The political situation in Albania was very unsteady during project
implementation. The collapse of the pyramid schemes and the subsequent outbreak of violent civil unrest in
1997 blocked all Bank project activities in Albania for about nine months. In particular this situation
blocked ongoing contracts for civil works and delayed the start up of the metering program and the
computerization of the billing and collection system. In September 1998, more unrest was provoked by the
assassination of an opposition deputy that led to the resignation of the Prime Minister and to the
appointment of a new Government. The Kosovo Crisis in early 1999, with the massive influx of refugees
into Albania of about 450,000 people, seriously strained Albanian institutions and hampered their capacity
to carry out programs with donors as planned.
The civil unrest in 1997 affected significantly the enforcement capacity of the DDWW. Because of the
lack of law and order in the country in 1997, a massive increase of illegal connections and decrease of
willingness to pay for the services provided happened throughout the country. Slow recovery of law and
order also affected the pace of enforcement capacity by DDWW. In this unstable and unpredictable
political situation, the legal changes necessary for sector reform and for successful project implementation
were not established.
- 12 -



This contributed greatly to the project's unsatisfactory rating. This same political situation deterred the
Bank from its normal policy to require the Borrower to meet its commitments to policy changes in the
sector.
These exogenous factors help to understand why the Bank acted as it did, and mitigate the unsatisfactory
performance rating that this ICR gives to the Bank's performance.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The decision of the Ministry of Public Works to manage the project by having the PIU report directly to the
Ministry was not in accordance with project design and negatively affected the relationship with the
DDWW's management.
The Durres District Council was not effective in making key decisions. These include collaborating with
the Municipality to merge sewerage and water enterprises, supporting the DDWW's management in
approving and enforcing regulations, and participating in the Ministry's and the DDWW's efforts to
coordinate and collaborate on difficulties encountered during project implementation.
Despite all the difficulties faced by the Government during the project implementation period, the
Parliament and the Council of Ministers passed laws that will have a future positive effect on the water and
sewerage sector. They comprise (i) adopting a new sector policy that includes cost recovery, private sector
participation, and decentralization of management to local government; (ii) establishing a Utility
Regulatory Commission; (iii) lifting the tariff cap, (iv) transferring assets and responsibility of this sector
to local government; and (v) corporatizing water and sewer companies. However, they still have had no
significant effect on the project's outcome. For most of them, their implementation rules and enabling
regulations are still being drafted.
The central government showed a lack of commitment or ability to intervene and take remedial actions
regarding the significant debt the water enterprise increasingly was accumulating with the Albania Electric
Corporation (KESH). Likewise, the same happened with the increased receivables from Kavaja city with
the Durres water enterprise.
The frequent changes of the organization of the Ministry of Public Works, the ministers of this Ministry
and its mid level of management hindered the continuity of the agreed actions on policy and institutional
changes. From 1995 to 2000 this project has seen three governments, nine Ministers of Public Works, and
four General Directors of the Water and Sewerage Directorate. The Albanian government officials that
committed to this project were never in a position to provide the needed support to the project over a long
time period.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As reported earlier, DDWW was not the prime implementing agency. The Ministry performed that function
through a PIU that reported directly to the Ministry and not to DDWW. Outside of failure to build
capacity through the project implementation experience, this arrangement did not result in a more effective
implementation of some physical components. Difficulties were evident in the management of the meter
installation sub-contract, the installation of reservoir discharge meters, and in the billing and collection
system.
- 13 -



All of these items needed a close working arrangement with the DDWW's personnel to be accomplished
and were more on the system management side then the physical component side.
The PIU was accomplished in the engineering segments of the project but was not skilled or staffed in the
elements of institutional management. On the other hand, contrary to the experience in many other projects
in Albania during the civil unrest of 1997, the project's construction sites and warehouse were not looted,
and no equipment and parts were stolen. This is due to the high project ownership by the PIU and their
brave and determrined action in securing the assets.
The DDWW failed to install master meters at the discharges of each distribution reservoir, at each
connection to the Fushe Kuqe and Fushe Kruja transmission mains and at key points in the distribution
networks within the project area. The DDWW was not capable of properly and efficiently implementing the
Water Demand Management Program.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project costs estimated in the SAR were US$19.5 million. The financing of the project was
estimated: (a) IDA: US$11.6 million; (b) GOA: US$5.6 million; (c) DDWW: US$2.0 million, and (d)
METAP: US$0.3 million. At closing, the total project costs were US$17.22 million, of which IDA had
financed US$11.436 million, GOA: US$5.491 million, while the DDWW did not contribute any financing
(see Annex 2). The financing from the DDWW did not materialize because it was a loss-making entity
during the entire project and could not generate the required revenues. The outstanding part from the
DDWW and the remaining IDA funds at closing of about US$0.2 million make up the difference in the
total project cost at appraisal.
The reasons for differences in project cost by component (see Annex 2) are diverse: various changes in
VAT and duties imposed by (and paid by) the Government, a low price for the main construction contract,
the downsizing of the TA component and a substantial underestimation of the costs for the metering
program during the project appraisal.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated unlikely because the expected commercial and financial management improvements
of the DDWW have not materialized. The facilities constructed are of generally good quality and the pilot
area test showed that physical losses could be substantially decreased in the rehabilitated area. However,
the DDWW's past record of weak maintenance and repair management capacity, and its organizational
structure makes questionable the issue of whether routine and preventive maintenance will be provided in
the newly constructed facilities. Sustainability would be rated as highly unlikely were it not for the fact that
a follow-up project under preparation for Durres and other cities in Albania intends to turn over the
management and operation to a private operator and thereby has a chance to achieve the financial and
institutional development objectives that could not been achieved under the present project. A more settled
political environment suggests that these objectives, which remain ambitious, may now be more feasible.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
All of the physical works are operated by DDWW, but as mentioned above it is expected that a private
operator will take over the operations in 2002. The Bank discussed with DDWW the need for a
maintenance contract for the computerized billing and collection system and DDWW is currently financing
- 14 -



its contract out of their own resources. Due to the strong commitment of DDWW's new management, and
the continuing assistance of the consultant who developed the computerized billing and collection system,
the DDWW is not only maintaining the system but also expanding it to an additional 13,500 customers.
However, more substantial TA should be provided to bridge the gap until the private operator will
commence.
Additional financing is required to address the issues that hamper the performance of the DDWW. The
ongoing Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project covers priority investment needs, an operation
enhancement program, a feasibility study for the rural areas, and a pilot study to assess possible
community participation in tariff collection, operation and maintenance, as well as the most effective
demand management approach in the rural areas. However, long term sustainability can only be achieved
by recruiting a private operator. The recruitment of a private operator is a dated covenant for continuing
the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the region has signaled that it will enforce it. The Bank
will also support the recruitment of the private operator under the proposed Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory because of poor project design. Little strategic
thinking seems to have preceded the development of the project. Inarguably the financial program failed to
anticipate the extreme adverse conditions that ultimately materialized. The institutional strengthening
program did not take into account the weak sector institutions and the capability and willingness of the
institutions to change. No support was foreseen for the required sector policy changes. The need to secure
the political commnitment of key stakeholders was significantly underestimated and the Bank failed to
develop a constituency that would forcefully press for the needed changes.
The Bank failed to take the tough decision of sequencing institutional strengthening and cost recovery
agreements ahead of major investments, as it has been done under the follow-up project. The lifting of the
tariff cap, at least for the DDWW, should have been a pre-condition of negotiations or of presentation to
the Board.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated unsatisfactory, because the Bank ignored
noncompliance with the credit agreement for too long caused by the Borrower's failure to: (i) secure the
payment from Kavaja city; (ii) lift the tariff cap; and (iii) achieve the agreed financial performance. Failure
to insist on compliance with the legal and financial covenants led the Borrower to believe that the essential
conditionalities of the project could be soften-ed. This was detrimental to the project objectives as the
Borrower did not take the required actions. It is unclear whether senior management was fully informed
about the gravity of the issues faced. Until January 1998, supervision reports rated the DO and IP as
satisfactory, which is not consistent with the findings of this ICR.
The Bank failed to react in a timely fashion to the difficulties that arose and that could have been mitigated
by a conditional restructuring of the project. By delaying the mid-term review, the Bank lost one important
chance to restructure the project. The Bank decided to suspend disbursements only after five years of
non-compliance with the above mentioned covenants, and when there was no hope of achieving the
financial objectives.
- 15 -



The Bank finally canceled the Credit two months after suspension, more than one year ahead of the closing
date.
The Bank's performance regarding the implementation of the physical infrastructure is rated satisfactory.
However, that cannot offset the overall rating.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory. At the preparation stage the Borrower had
very limited experience in operating in a market economy and in dealing with international donors, such as
the Bank. This is one of the main reasons why the Government was not fully committed to the reforms
anticipated under the project. By the same token, it should be noted that the Government was unable to
realize the implications of non-compliance with the legal covenants.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance during project implementation is rated unsatisfactory. Throughout the
project, the DDWW suffered from a lack of support and direction from the Durres District Council and the
General Directory of Water and Sewerage in the Ministry of Public Works.
The Government was not able to implement sector reforns in a timely manner, e.g., abolishing the tariff
cap, or isolating the project in Durres from the negative impact created by the lack of reform.
The Government did not comply with the legal covenant to give full responsibility for the project
implementation to the DDWW. This was because the Government preferred to centrally manage the
project implementation through a contracted Project Implementation Unit.
The Government showed a lack of commitment to strengthen the DDWW's commercial and financial
operations, and did not intervene in accordance with the DCA, when the payments from Kavaja to the
DDWW did not materialize.
7.6 lImplementing Agency:
The PIU's performance during project implementation, which took place under very difficult circumstances,
is rated satisfactory. The Project Implementation Unit proved to be one of the successful executing
agencies in the country. The PIU was capable of implementing the physical components of the project in a
satisfactory manner, despite the difficulties created by the civil unrest in 1997, the Kosovo crisis in 1999,
severe electricity supply shortage, and insufficient support from the relevant government organizations.
However, the PIU's managerial capacity suffered during some periods due to the lack of insufficient
staffing.
The DDWW's performance during project implementation is rated unsatisfactory because it failed to
improve their financial performance. The DDWW was legally transformed into a commercial company
only in 2000, but has yet to make the transformation to function as a commercial company.
- 16 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Most significant lessons learned
The most significant lessons learned during this project are as follows.
* During the preparation stage, the project suffered from a failure to identify key weaknesses of the
sector and to act decisively to overcome them. A sound assessment of sector issues and a strategy to
address them was lacking.
* It was not possible, and it was unrealistic to expect that the Government would support substantial
institutional changes in one water enterprise without linking it to broader sector reforms to address the
fundamental imbalances in the sector and the Bank should have assisted reforming the sector from the
beginning.
*   Politicization of tariff liberalization, staff recruitment and other administrative and financial matters
undermined the potential for reform in the water and sewerage sector and diminished improvements in
service delivery. The action for tariff liberalization was only taken after the parliamentary election of
1997. The risk of political influence does not appear to have been appropriately considered during
appraisal.
*   The commercial and financial autonomy of the DDWW was essential to reduce political interference in
the day-to-day management and to achieve the financial objectives for DDWW. The DDWW was
transformed into a commercial company only shortly before the credit was about to close.
* Local government participation in the project preparation and implementation was essential to establish
ownership and commitment. The central management approach caused implementation difficulties and
failure to achieve the needed commitment from stakeholders.
* Frequent changes of the Ministers of the Ministry of Public Works and of the General Managers of the
Water and Sewerage Directory had a very negative impact on continuity, commitment and meeting
development objectives.
*   Implementation of technical assistance for institutional improvements at the outset was critical for
achieving the project objectives. Trying to achieve institutional changes at the end of the project did not
prove to be successful. Since the focus was meeting physical targets, institutional change was
marginalized.
* The project area was too restricted. Physical improvements and demand management in the rural areas
would have had more significant impact on the overall performance of the network.
Reflecting lessons learned in future operations
Sector Reform
Sector reform is now one of the Bank's main focus areas. The Bank started its assistance for the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy in June 2000, and has also recently agreed to support the
Government in developing a National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy, of which the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Strategy will be an integrate part. In addition, the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Strategy will also be a part of the Rural Development Strategy that is currently being developed
in the context of the GRSP process.
- 17-



Institutional Strengthening
Project implementation made it obvious how difficult it is to overcome the institutional weaknesses of the
DDWW. In future operations, the Bank should focus more on creating the enabling framework for
improved utility performance by assisting the government to design a program of sector reforms. In
addition, TA components should be designed in accordance with the absorption capacity of the utility and
their implementation should be sequenced into the investment process. Due to the weakness of all levels of
Government and the DDWW, under the proposed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, the
management of the DDWW would be handed over to a private operator. The arrangement will be done in
the form of a five year management contract, and in addition to Durres, three other Albanian cities will be
included under the management contract. The participation of the four utilities and municipalities in the
preparation of the proposed project is essential to establish ownership and commitment; and until now, all
of them participated actively in the working group, preparing the management contract. Although some of
the critical issues can be regulated inside the contract, some outstanding issues such as illegal connections
can only be addressed by the Government through sector reforms.
One of the remaining problems is the need to convert the illegally connected customers in the developing
and newly developed areas into regular, metered customers. This is not possible without providing a
distribution network that allows them to connect in a technically proper manner. The first expansion of the
distribution system is already anticipated under the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and further
investment will follow under the proposed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. In addition,
appropriate legislation that allows the disconnection of illegal customers and the installation and
maintenance of domestic meters is required. The Bank supported the recent adoption of the water code
which regulates the customer-utility relationship for all Albanian utilities. The drafting of the water code
was financed under the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, but never implemented.
Durres Rural Areas
It became obvious during project implementation that the key for improving the water supply for Durres
city is the control of the water consumption and tariff collection in the rural areas. This problem can only
be solved together with the rural population. The key is to have the villagers participating in the collection
of the water tariff, and maybe even operation and maintenance of the village systems. The social
assessment has indicated that villagers in Albania are reluctant to pay to an external entity like a district
water utility or the commune, if they are not integrated in the system. To identify the most appropriate
approach of community participation in tariff collection and maintenance and operation of the water supply
systems in the villages, the Bank is financing a pilot project that will assess eight different models over a
period of one year. The schemes are currently being set up under the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
Project and anticipated to commence in late summer of 2001.
To properly control and manage the water supply in the rural areas, the transmission main including the
connections to the villages needs to be rehabilitated and equipped with lockable valve chambers, pressure
reducing valves, stop valves, water meters and sometimes parallel lines to bundle several connections.
These works are already under preparation under the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project.
A feasibility study is underway under the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project to identify the most
appropriate water supply and sanitation scheme for the rural areas around the DDWW's network. It will
recommend for which villages local water sources can be developed, and which villages should be
connected to the DDWW's network. This is essential for long-term planning and will enable the engagement
- 18 -



of more international donors in village projects in Durres District. Often donors support for water projects
on the village levels was hampered by the lack of a long term development strategy for the water sector in
the area.
Monitoring and Benchmarking
The source and district meters that were not installed under the project will be installed under the Water
Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. This follow-up project will also introduce monitoring regarding
drinking water quality and service levels. The DDWW, assisted by an international consultant, will begin
using the Bank's start-up kit for benchmarking water and sanitation utilities.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR is included in Annex 10.
A stakeholders' workshop with representatives of the Borrower, the DDWW, the PFU, local governments,
the private sector and other stakeholders was held in Durres in January 2001 to discuss the findings of the
draft ICR. The representatives included key stakeholders involved in preparation and implementation of the
project. A summary of this workshop is included in Annex 9.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
See feedback from stakeholder workshop in Annex 9.
10. Additional Information
The Project's Financial Management System
The implementation of the PIU's Financial Management System for the project was successfully completed
only in the second half of fiscal year 2000. The establishment of a sound Financial Management System
was a prerequisite for the follow-up project, the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. Without the
follow-up project, the implementation would most likely not have taken place. In the establishment of this
system, the PIU's accountant was supported and trained by a consulting company (KPMG, Albania). This
system replaces a previous one that was not considered fully satisfactory by the Bank.
This new Financial Management system is built around a software (Alpha-PMR) designed for Bank
projects and developed by a local software company. While implementing this system, the accounting and
disbursement procedures were also formalized in an Accounting Manual.
The PIU's accountant has entered all the accounting transactions for fiscal year 1999 and fiscal year 2000
in this new system. The quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) are available only until September
2000, and the fiscal year 2000 accounts related to the last quarter are not yet closed (closing will be
completed in a few weeks, after the PIU will receive the confirmation from the Government of Albania
regarding the amounts disbursed).
- 19-



The auditor's recommendations in the fiscal year 1999 Management Letter have been implemented by the
PIU. The PIU did not yet start the tendering procedures for the appointment of the auditor for the fiscal
year 2000 Audit.
Durres District Water Supply Enterprise's Financial Management
The auditor's fiscal year 2000 audit report for the DDWSE is Qualified and, apart from the Entity's
financial and economic problems, this is due to the fact that the DDWSE's financial management system is
very poor. The following is a list of the main financial management problems:
*   The accounting system is based on software that is not able to track the billing and the inventory
accounting (billing and inventory are handled by different departments under separate systems; the
figures are then reconciled manually).
*  Billing is done by the sales dept. and the collection of data is not reliable; data is reconciled monthly by
the accounting department.
*   Inventory accounting is kept manually and without reliable procedures in local warehouses and
accounting is entered locally, without segregation of duties; reconciliation is then done manually at HQ;
the fiscal year 2000 audit report highlighted that out of Lek 216 million of materials supplied by the
project, Lek 35 million were not recorded into the Entity's accounts; valuation of inventories are
therefore unreliable and overstated.
*   Standards among departments are sometimes different, therefore accounting reconciliation does not
have a homogeneous accounting base.
Considering the complexity and the material weakness of DDWSE's accounting system, improvement will
likely only be made by restructuring the accounting function with the assistance of external consultants.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
DURRES WATER SUPPLY_REHABILITATION PROJECT
:Project Targets and Monitoring Indicators 
Year                 19 94             1995              1996o            1997              19g 98g199                         200
Target/I Indicators       Actual  SAR   ActualSA                                        Actual tS R Ata    SAR   ActulSA AcalIAR      ctl SR
Production   ~~Mill. M3  25.4    24.9    25.4    27        24 7.0    254, 270O 25A                     27.00 _25.4       27.0     25.7     27.0
TotalSales   ~~Mill.ma    7     13.6      8.3     14.1     8.4       15      8        -,-       .9     16:4      7.6   1  69       7        1
DDorriatic sales   !Mill.M013   3.7  58       5.1      6.3      5.7      6.7     5.8      71       5.7 1  7.3        5.6      7.6      5.8      7.9
2)1ndustrial sales   Mill.M3    -, .4 -                2        0                                  01O  .   374      0.1      3.5      0.3      3.7
3)Govemment &    MillM3    1.0   I3.0         0.9      3.0      08   ~3.1        0.       3.2      0.6 1  3.3        0.6     3.4       0.4      3.5
~omercial sales. 
4)Kavaja ;aies   .MiII.M3    1.9     2.0      '19        2.0      1.6   2.2       1.6    .22,       15_.             1.3      2.4      0.5    -2.4
Non-revenuewaar  Mill.!V3   184      113      17.1    12 9      17       12      173      1        17.51    1. 76             1.         5 9
Nont-revenue wateri...                                                                     ..
as %of product~ionj         72%   45%         67%   48%        67%      44%      68%      42%      69iO9%            7%      37%                35%"ii
DoeliaconsNo.000  25.386                   28.200             33,0,15          3 ~ 3,421         3.5         _      1553.2
Metered  No.000                                                                     ____~~~~~~L  ~8722T                             _
M stared  1 No.000                                               323--A           8903.             8.338             820
.o-mtre   LNo.o-   25.862820                           33.015 i ~        33.098           26.854            26.247 1,         26.801
Industrial accounts 'No.000    104   44       100      70       89                                          1053   8    -37   112      28       117
No-000    44       45644             24       364610                              241012
........, . ..~~~~~~~~~~~....        -  -       - I .. . . . i . . 1 - -1   _    -    _-  . --. 4 ._
Non-metered       No. 000    60               5653302                                                                20
Goy & _Comrc.   No.000    6796                 3                644  I           644 I      ."     810               899               931
Metered   iNo.000    60:60co- i      -60        11       86-     15       27   172~  650~  186   ~5781   215                   598       215
Non-metered       N00        !)      6       63   128           58       0       43        0        5-0               __'             333        0
M"ai;rainstalle4                 0       1N4       80012            700     566      900      957      1300    1262070
mtrea                  -336                                                                                                         8,336
Domestic tariffs    US$1m3   0.05    ~0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05   0.06     0.15    0.062    0.15    0.6       025     066         250 8
Industrial tariffs    US$1m3   0.52!O.40  0.52  040   052     0435    0600.44            0.60     0.44     0.80     0.45     080      045~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 -0-''6-5  --40-    -521-64 -5 6.b   -4  -- zi_44. 0 -0 .4
Lndu!r~a      .                                                                   I60___                       --_-____,,--
GovtemmenTaiUS13    .2    ' 030               052    0O30      052i-   0_.3-0   0.52      0.31    0.52      0.31    0.30     0.31      0.3      0.31
~ommercal trf    US/3 0.52                   0.52             052                 60.6                              0.8               0.8
Kavajatanif  US$1m3   0.03  007  007  I 0075    007  008  007    ~~~~~ ~~~~0.085    0.07 10.09  015    0.095     .5      01
WorktingRatio       1%            I   0       13      50         77      5        .2       5        .5       0               .1                 47
is(T- Ct~~~  66676'i    820                                                  4,369    1437016,881    157     6,030    564
Ra ebt,          0/S       80       5        .5        1      1,175 -  211     2        10      439        46.
Billings          000/US     86    2,427       999    2,598      869    2,856    1 35   308        12       27       137   3426    1.657    3.576
Total receivables  :000/US    100    1,001     293    1,409      236    1A421   _449 11,534         400     1,457    _587     154       50      1,9
Employees   No.      3~~~~~03  311-292          3`15    290      3`15 __304 __315          306       315     297      3115     302       3 15
Wage& salary cost 90S         176  8lB          219  148        2i,82     48_    _398    18         406    148        419    148        333    148
Electncity cost   000/US     883 I866          990      866   .1,0434  92        107   92__1,170 9142               1,324    942               942
Electricity con_Su;4       __/k   , 4~         41.4A   43.3    41        7.       9.1    471    40.7    47.1    40.5    471           41.5,    47.1
Debt repaym4t1 00US
Prindpal                      -       .--                                                                                                        78
ooolu  72       15 72            36        41     502       44      60         8     68        14      650       104     656
ER US$: Lek                 100              92.8              1D4.5            148.9             150.6             137.7             142
Note:
All vale inUS are 'estae with ER of 1994                                                    .
-21-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A. Well field pump station rehabilitation, F. Kruja well  2.91          4.46             153
field pump replacement, Booster pump station
rehabilitation
B. Water Distribution network rehabilitation Reservoir  8.40            7.00              83
No. 2 addition
C. Water loss reduction Source and district metering    0.75            2.36             317
demand management action plan
D. Sewerage Durres pump station rehabilitation Durres   0.57            0.57              99
collection system rehabilitation Shijak truck sewer
E. Institutional strengthening (water supply) Management  1.78          1.21              68
TA water supply master plan updating Office
reconstruction O&M equipment water
F. lnstitutional strengthening (sewerage) Management TA  0.74           0.25              33
Sewerage master plan O&M equipment sewerage
G. Project preparation                                  1.77            1.37              77
Total Baseline Cost                                    16.92           17.22
Physical Contingencies                                 1.48
Price Contingencies                                    1.13
Total Project Costs               19.53           17.22
Total Financing Required               19.53           17.22
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        0.00            0.92           0.00           0.00          0.92
(0.00)         (0.55)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.55)
2. Goods                         1.66           0.00           0.13           0.00           1.79
(0.13)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.13)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Supply and erect             13.26           0.00           0.00           0.00          13.26
(7.75)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (7.75)
5. Consultancies                 0.00           0.00           3.30           0.00          3.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.96)         (0.00)        (2.96)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        14.92           0.92           3.43           0.00          19.27
(7.88)         (0.55)         (2.96)         (0.00)        (11.39)
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Ex'-'ll2p .,t7Z......y
1. Works                        0.00            0.62          0.00           0.00          0.62
(0.00)         (0.42)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.42)
2. Goods                         2.78           0.00           0.63          0.00           3.41
(1.28)         (0.00)        (0.59)         (0.00)        (1.87)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Supply and erect              9.90           0.00           0.00          0.00           9.90
(6.17)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (6.17)
5. Consultancies                 3.27           0.00           0.00          0.00          3.27
(2.97)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.97)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        15.95           0.62           0.63          0.00          17.20
(10.42)        (0.42)         (0.59)         (0.00)       (11.43)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 23 -



Project Financin  b  Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Well eld pump station  2.85      0.40       0.31      3.21       1.25      0.00    112.6  312.5   0.0
rehabilitation
F. Kruja well field pump
replacement
Booster pump station
rehabilitation
B. Water Distribution     4.88      3.17       1.64      4.51       2.49      0.00     92.4   78.5   0.0
Distribution network
Rehabilitation Reservoir
No. 2 addition
C. Water loss reduction   0.34      0.46       0.05      0.86       1.50      0.00    252.9  326.1   0.0
Source and district
metering demand
management action plan
D. Sewerage Durres pump   0.46      0.24       0.00      0.37       0.20      0.00     80.4   83.3   0.0
station rehabilitation
Durres collection system
rehabilitation Shijak truck
sewer
E. Institutional          1.14      0.85       0.03       1.17      0.03      0.00    102.6   3.5    0.0
strengthening (water
supply)
Management TA water
supply master plan
updating Office
reconstruction O&M
equipment water
F. Institutional          0.43      0.42       0.00      0.23       0.01      0.00     53.5   2.4    0.0
strengthening (sewerage
Management TA Sewerage
master plan O&M
equipment sewerage
C. Project preparation    1.51      0.00       0.34      1.08       0.00      0.29     71.5    0.0   85.3
Total Project Costs
Total Financing Required                                                                  _
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
ERR calculation:
Water consumption per year with the project Water consumption per year without the project  Economic costs: (000) Dollars
-   (00 m3                                (000 m3)
Illegal water                           Illegal water              Increase in
ICR/Water |consumption  Total        ICR/Water    conaumption   Total         water        SAR.         O&M cost with  O&M cost                                 lGross
Year    sales      Urban/Rural  consum0ption   consumption   Urban'Rural:              consumption: C p Catl Cost.  reect:     without project. |Net O&M costs: Total net Costs benefits:  Net benefits:
1995      8,300         577          8,877        7,885           577         8,482         415       $3,902        $1,970         $1,304          $668        $4,568        $120            -$4,448
1996      8,400         676         9,075         7,491           676         8,167         909       $2,984        $2,078         $2,286         -$208        $2,776        $264            -$2,513
1997     8,100         2,737       10,837         7,116          2737         9,853         984       $3,282        $2,149         $2,579         -$430        $2,852        $285            -$2,567
1998     7,900         2,562       10,462         6,760          2562        9,322         1.140      $2,251        $2,261         $2,826         -$565        $1,686        $330            -$1,355
1999      7,600        1,940        9,540         6,422          1940         8,362        1,178        $708        $2,425         $3,031         -$606          $102        $342               $240
2000      7.000        1,772         8.772        6,101          1772         7,873         899         $268        $2,428         $3,035         -$607         -$339        $261               $600
2001      6,930        1,754         8,684        5,796         1,683         7,480        1,205          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $349               $996
2002      6,861        1,737         8,597        5,506         1,599         7,106        1,492          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $433             $1,078
2003      6,792        1,719         8,511        5,231         1,519         6,750        1,761          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $511             $1,156
2004      6,724        1,702         8,426        4,970         1,443         6,413        2,014        $160        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$486        $584             $1,070
2005      6,857        1,685        8,342         4,721         1,371         6,092        2,250          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $652             $1,298
2006      6,590        1,668         8,259        4,485         1,303         5,788        2,471          $0        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$646        $717             $1,362
2007      6,524        1,652         8,176        4,261         1,237         5,498        2,678          $0        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$646        $777             $1,422
2008      6,459        1,635         8,094        4,048          1,176        5,223        2,871          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $833             $1,478
2009      6,395        1,619        8,013         3,845         1,117         4,962        3,051      $1,9S5        $2,389         $3,035          -$646       $1,309        $885              -$425
2010      6,331        1,603         7,933        3,653         1,061         4,714        3,219          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $934             $1,579
2011      6,267        1,587         7,854        3,470         1,008         4,478        3,376          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646        $979             $1,625
2012      6,205        1,571        7,775         3,297           958         4,254        3,521          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$846       $1,021            $1,667
2013      6,143        1,555         7,698        3,132           910         4,042        3,656          $0        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$646       $1,060            $1,706
2014      6,081        1,539         7,621        2,975           864         3,840        3,781        $160        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$486       $1,097            $1,582
2015      6,020        1,524         7,544        2,827           821         3,648        3,897          $0        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$646       $1,130            $1 776
2016      5.960        1,509         7,489        2,685           780         3,465        4,004          $0        $2,389         $3,035          -$646        -$646       $1,161            $1 807
2017      5,901        1,494        7,394         2,551           741         3,292        4,102          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646       $1,190            $1,835
208       5,842        1,479         7,320        2,424           704         3,127        49,t3          $0        $2,389         $3,035         -$646         -$646       $1,216            $1,862 _
$15,670                     $89,684                       $2,300     $17,129              NPV:  ERR:
-$2,838    6.77%
Assumptions
Nt
Water consumption wfth the project is based upon the actual consumpbon        Benefits are the Incremental sales of water valued at customer willingness to pay ot            Sensibvitv Tests:    ERR:
from 1995-2000 and afterthat is expected to decUne by 1% due to degradation   $0.29 per m3 (based onthe SAR)
of the system. However, because of the rehabilitation carred out and tools                                                                                                   i. Base case:         6.77%
provided under the project, the decline is expected to be much less than
without the project.                                                                                                                                                          2. Benetfits 10%     7.37%
To calculate the iltegat water consumption the number ot illegal connecflons was
Water consumptIon without the project assumes DOWWs reported                  estimated as a percentage of the actual number ot accounts ranging from 10 - 40                 3 Benefits -10%      6.15%
consumption in 1995 reduced byS% per annum through 2018, due to further       percent. It was assumed that 2/3 of the Jftegaf connections are located in the city
degradahon of production and distribution facilities and absence of a         and 1/3 in the rural areas with different amounts of water consumed In these areas:
computerized billing and collection system.                                   76 Vc-d in the urban areas and 210 Vc*d in the rural areas. In the without pr"ect
scenario is assumed that the quanfity of illegal water consumed will decline at the
0 & M costs comprse salaries, electricity, materials and chemicals. The       same rate the legal consumption declines (5 percent), due to water shortages.
differences in the 0 & M cost in the with and without project scenario are due
to: a.) efficiency gains due to spare parts & tools financed by the project; b.)  Total consumption was calculated by adding the illegal water consumpbon and lhe
less malntenance for rehabilitasfng parts of the network and c.) after the year  water corsumpton.
1999 also through the reduction in electricty consumption due to more effident
pumps Installed under the project. The cost for electricity decrease by 7% from
2001 on and are calculated by using the actual consumpton for the years 995-
2000 and considered stable thereafter. Evidence of the efficiency gains under
the project are also seen in the decline of employees per 1,000 connections
from 12.0 to 8.4.
Capital cost include only investment under the project. Other investment
foreseen under the project (the cost of new connections) did not materialize
The Economic Analysis in this ICR follows the structure of the Economic Analysis in the SAR to guarantee comparability.



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persns and Specialty               PerformanceRtn
(.g. 2 E     so s I FMS, etc.)       Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Se  rialty                      Pogress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 4, 1992               1   Sanitary Engineer
June 15, 1992               1   Sanitary Engineer
July 27, 1992               1   Environmental Consultant
Sept. 21, 1992              1   Sanitary Engineer
I   Environmental Consultant
Oct. 26, 1992               1   Environmental Consultant
Feb. 1, 1993                1   Sanitary Engineer
March 15, 1993              1   Sanitary Engineer
I   Urban Financial Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 14, 1993               1   Sanitary Engineer
Supervision
May 11, 1994                 1   Sanitary Engineer
June 30, 1994               2   Financial Specialist
I   Sanitary Engineer
February 8, 1995             1   Sanitary Engineer                   S              HS
June 9, 1995                 1   Sanitary Engineer                   S               S
April 24, 1996               6   2 Sanitary Engineer, I              S               S
Economist, 1 Sr. Operations
Officer, 1 Assistance Project
Officer, I Financial Analyst
December 1996                1   Sanitary Engineer                   S               S
July 1997                   4   1 Sr. Operations Officer, I          S               S
Financial Analyst, I Economist,
I Assistance Project Officer
January 1998                4   2 Sanitary Engineer, I               S               S
Economist, I Assistance Project
Officer
December 1998               2   1 Sanitary Engineer, I               S               U
Assistance Project Officer
June 1999                   2   1 Sanitary Engineer, I               S               U
Assistance Project Officer
December 1999               2   I Sanitary Engineer,l Economist      S               U
April 2000                  2   1 Economist, I Financial Analyst     S               U
June 2000                   2   1 Sanitary Engineer,l Economist      S               U
August 2000                 2   1 Sanitary Engineer,I Economist      S               U
ICR
January 2001                2    1 Sanitary Engineer, I
Economist
Mach 2001                   2    1 Sanitary Engineer, I
Economist
-26-



(b) Staff:
I    Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS ('OO)
Identification/Preparation               84.7                         160
Appraisal/Negotiation                    66.8                         102
Supervision                              115                        271.9
ICR                                       13                           56
Total                                    279                          590
-27-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                          OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
Z Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
N Institutional Development               O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
ZK Environmental                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                OH   OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
LII Other (Please specify)         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-28-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
X Lending                                             OHS OS *OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS   *U  OHU
E Overall                                             OHS OS *U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS   *  U  O HU
* Government implementation performance               O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   O  u  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS Os * u O HU
Annex 6.1: Changes of Ministers of Public Works from 1994-2000
SN    Ministers of Public      From                 To                     Duration
Works                                                                (Months
approx.)
1    Mr. Ilir Manushi         May, 1992            November,1994          31
2    Mr. Dashamir Shehi       December, 1994       May, 1996               18
3    Mr. Albert Brojka        June, 1996           September, 1996        4
4    Mr. Ernest Noka          September, 1996      March, 1997            6
(Acting Minister)
5    Mr. Vasillaq Spaho       March 1997           July, 1997             4
6    Mr. Gaqo Apostoli        July, 1997           September, 1998        14
7    Mrs. Ingrid Shuli        September, 1998      September, 1999        12
8    Mr. Arben Demeti         October, 1999        June, 2000             9
9    Mr. Ilir Zela            June, 2000           October, 2000          4
10   Mr. Spartak Poci         October 2000         Continuing
-29-



Annex 6.2: Changes in G.D.W.S. General Director, DDWW Director and PIU
Director from 1994 to 2000.
SN    Name                         Date of Appointment      Departure from Office    Duration
(Months)
(A) General Director of
theGeneral Directorate of
Water Supply and Sanitation
in the Ministry of Pubilc
Works
I     Mr. Arben Zajmi              May, 1993                March, 1996              34
2     Mr. Stavri Ristani           March, 1996              February, 1998           23
3     Mr. Marenglen Dalta          February, 1998           June, 2000               28
4     Mr. Bujar Reme               July, 2000               Continuing
(B) Director of DDWW
I     Mr. Ardian Radovicka        May, 1992                June 2000                 96
2     Mr. Floian Mustafaraj        July 2000                Continuing
(C) Director of PIU
I     Mrs. Suzana Cikuli           June, 1994               February 1995            9
2     Mr. Ndricim Shani            February 1995            Continuing
-30-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Country Assistance Strategy for Albania, September 1993
2. Seba Messtechnik Klagenfurt, Feasibility Study, Final Report, December 1993
3. Albania: Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 1994
4. Seba Messtechnik Klagenfurt, Technical Report, Supervision of Works, June 1998
-31-



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
I.    Introduction
As a part of the ICR for the Duffes Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (DWP), a beneficiary survey was
carried out in the Duffes District from December 2000 until February 2001. The project was to assess the
degree of beneficiary satisfaction resulting from the project and to also determnine if the project had a lasting
socioeconomic impact on the beneficiaries in the project area.
The survey was conducted using standard questionnaires, in-depth interviews and focus group discussions
with project beneficiaries. The survey covered the city of Durres and the town of Shijak including the
suburban areas under the project rehabilitation scope.
This summary highlights the main conclusions and recommendations of the beneficiary assessment
obtained through the feedback from the domestic customers, local govermments, the DDWW and local
companies participating in the implementation of the project .
II.    Overall Project Rating
The assessment shows that the project achieved: a) upgrading the obsolete conditions in the engineering
network; b) reducing technical losses; c) increasing water pressure in the upper floors of apartment
buildings; d) improving the water reliability in the target and non-target areas of the city; and e) reducing
the incidences of water contamination.
However, the level of beneficiary satisfaction was low, mainly due to shortages in water supply, especially
during the summer months and generally during the winter months. The maintenance and operation
capability of the DDWW is still weak.
The project could not achieve the given objectives because of the following reasons:
*  the project did not forecast the large demographic population growth in the city of Durres that migrated
into the city from the poor rural areas;
*   the uncontrolled increase in consumption of drinking water in the rural areas due to the population
increase, and especially the higher living conditions in these areas;
*   the over-consumption of water and the abuse of water for irrigation and livestock in the rural areas;
* low levels of local government participation and several difficulties and shortcomings, which appeared
during the project implementation.
Notwithstanding these issues, the survey found out that in the urban area of Durres, the water pressure
improved by approximately 50 percent, that the water quality rose (sanitary and hygiene), and that for the
first time in some areas (Shijak) the extensions of water supply are considered satisfactory. In particular,
the survey detennined that had the project not been undertaken, the water supply situation in Durres would
have severely deteriorated substantially.
Suggestions for changes and improvements are presented throughout the report and are summarized below.
-32-



III.   Methodology and Sampling
The study was based on the qualitative and quantitative methods, which included standard questionnaires,
in-depth interviews, and focus group discussions. In-depth interviews were conducted with experts and
local authorities to collect qualitative data and information on the project impact. At the end of the survey
process a Stakeholder Workshop was organized in Durres with the participation of experts, people that
benefited from the project, local authorities and the representatives of the World Bank. The workshop
generated very useful findings and recommendations for future interventions in the water sector.
The sample design took into account the need for balanced representation of territorial coverage of the
project; various categories of customers from domestic, public and private sector; and evolution of the
project implementation during the life span of the project.
IV.   Water Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Water Utility Performance
The report is based on the outcomes of the: (1) 200 standard item questionnaire with random selection of
respondents in urban and rural areas of Durres District; (2) 15 in-depth interviews with the best informed
people from the local governments and water utility; and (3) 12 focus group discussions, with residents
from urban and rural areas.
The standard questionnaire was designed to obtain information on the beneficiaries' living conditions; the
impact of the project on their daily lives; and beneficiary satisfaction. Whereas focus group discussions
grouped approximately 7-10 citizens of different age, gender, economic and social positions. Structured
interviews were focused on the beneficiary perceptions regarding the project impact, why the project did not
meet their expectations and their recommendations for the future.
The survey was carried out in six zones of the Durres city; Shijak town; and commune. Within each area,
20-25 people were interviewed.
Main Findings and Conclusions
T'he main concerns of the interviewers were: (i) involvement of local government in the preparation and
implementation stages of the project; (ii) lack of enforcement capacity; (iii) the increase of water tariffs
should be directly connected to the service improvements; (iv) the increase of water tariffs should consider
the financial ability to pay of the poor families; (v) to control the drinking water consumption in rural areas
and illegal connections in the urban areas.
Socio-Economic Impact
The level of satisfaction of the beneficiaries for the socio-economic impact is moderate. The reason is that
the project did improve the water quality in the rehabilitated areas and therefore reduced the incidence of
water contamination. Also, the availability of water supplied to fill the tank/container that many families
have installed on the roofs of their houses or apartment buildings has improved. This has reduced the time
spent coping with the insufficient water quantity. Even for those families which do not have tanks, the
water pressure and quantity has increased within the daily limited hours of supply. Also, the small private
businesses have expanded in the rehabilitated areas because more water is available for their activities.
-33-



Project Objectives and Customer's Expectations
The project has increased the reliability of water supply in rehabilitated areas by reducing technical losses
and increasing the water pressure. However, the high incidence of illegal connections and water abuse in
the areas outside of the rehabilitated network reduced the expected impact in the rehabilitated areas.
The interviewers were not satisfied with the relatively small size of the targeted areas for the network
rehabilitation that covers only about 50% of the Durres city area. The project has left out half of the city
and many families located in the peripheral areas that are marginalized in their access to the water and
sanitation services.
System Operation and Maintenance
The respondents were not satisfied with the lack of capacity of the DDWW to control the over consumption
of drinking water in the rural areas that seriously affected the water supply in the city. Also, the DDWW
did not show good managerial capacity to respond properly and on time to the new demands for water
piped connections from the new families that led to massive illegal connections. The local government
interviewers considered it a mistake that the meters were not installed as a priority in the rural areas to
control over consumption and misuse of water. The respondents considered it a failure that the DDWW did
not enhance the institutional capacity and this was considered a priority for service improvements.
Financial Performance of the Water utility
The project has not met its objectives to turn the water utility into a self-sustained financial operation. One
of the reasons for such a failure is that the technical assistance project was not carried out as planned. The
interviewers from the DDWW expressed their dissatisfaction that the water tariffs were not increased at the
very beginning of the project start-up, and that later the Water Regulatory Commission did not approve the
proposed tariffs to cover the O&M cost level. The low ratios of sales to production and collection to billing
affected significantly the utility incomes from water sales. DDWW employees are satisfied with the
establishment of a computerized billing and collection system through the technical assistance, since it
affected the commercial operation of the utility. Issues of financial management capacity are considered a
priority for improvement of the financial performance of the utility.
Relationship with DDWW and Local Government
During the project implementation of the project, several difficulties and shortcomings appeared in the
working relationship between the project unit, DDWW and Local Government authorities. Lack of clear
roles for each actor and appropriate responsibilities led to difficulties in communication among the actors
to realize the project activities and objectives. These difficulties in communication were reflected in the
decrease of the role of the water utility as the main beneficiary of the project and the reduction of its role to
a secondary hand player. This was because of the PIU dependence on the Ministry of Construction and the
central management of the project, excluding thus the local government. The local government respondents
expressed their strong views that local government participation is a must in the project preparation and
implementation is critical for the project success.
-34-



Project Sustainability
The poor financial performance, lack of enforcement, and weak managerial capacity of the utility are the
main pillars of the project outcomes that makes the sustainability of the services very doubtful. One of the
conclusions drawn from the interviews and group discussions is that private sector participation in the
management and operation of the water utility should be a preferable long term solution.
-35-



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Annex 9A: Stakeholder Survey Workshop Results
To understand and assess how the participants perceived and judged the project design and
implementation in the context of Durres District and of Albania, a survey was conducted during the
workshop. The survey intended to gauge the opinion of the participants on the positive and negative
aspects and risks of the projects during preparation and implementation, and based on this what could be
improved in the future.
Project Preparation Phase             Project Implementation                    Project Results/Impact
Phase
Positive       -Good cooperation between the          -Improvement of the drinking        -There has been created a new experience and
aspects         World Bank and DDWW.                  water distribution system in some   a sound basis in the technical institutional and
-Rehabilitation of a good part of the  areas of the town.                 research aspects.
very obsolete of distribution         -Improvement of the hygiene of      -The newly accumulated experience should be
network.                              water and decrease of losses in the    exploited during the second phase for the study
-Rehabilitation of the network and    distribution network,               related to the complete rehabilitation of the
pumping station.                      -Installment of water meters for    water distribution system and the water pump
-Strengthening of the DDWW            domestic consumers in the town,     stations.
capacity through TA.                  -Rehabilitation of the Pump         -Waters meters would better be installed at the
stations and drinking water depot.    entrance of the villages and the consumers in
-Usage of good quality of          the villages.
materials during the               -The project must be extended in the rural
implementation of the project and  areas to avert the negative phenomena already
good quality of the civil work.    present there in order to increase the drinking
-Effective cooperation between     water supply for the city of Durres.
foreign experts and local ones     -Several villages may find other sources for
during the implementation of the   water supply be totally separated from the
project,                           Durres system.
-New experience gained from the    -Durres and Kavaja must have two separate
water supply unit and increased    water distribution systems.
its operations and technical       -Urgent physical interventions must be
power.                             undertaken in the area of Shkozeti, the Breach
and Spitalla.
-It must be taken into consideration that the
water consumption in the Tirana-Durres
corridor is increasing because this area is
becoming an industrialized one.
-PSP as soon as possible for the improvement
of the management and operation of the water
utility.
-Put in place the water code.
-36-



Negative       -The project did not forecast the    -Lack of funds for the complete   -The distribution system is very obsolete and
aspects        rapid demographic growth from        rehabilitation of the water       might negatively influence on the next phase
migration.                          distribution system,               of the project.
-Failure to forecast the meters     -Lack of effective coordination    -Lack of coordination of the investments for
installment in rural area.          and collaboration during the       irrigation in the rural areas may have a
-The size of network rehabilitation  project implementation among all    negative impact on the future investments and
was relatively small to the needs of  the main actors, such as the Water    would keep in maintain high levels of abuse in
the entire network.                 unit, Durres municipality.        the rural areas.
-Tbe project neglected the local    Ministry of Public Works and       -Lack of anticipation of the demographic
govemment role and participation.   Public Affairs and PIU.            developments in Durres, which may be
-Sewerage system rehabilitation was    -Lack of control on illegal     accompanied by the failure to draft master
not included.                       connections in the urban areas,    plans and urban studies to anticipate the
-The project did not address the    and in particular in illegal      increase of drinking water consumption in the
control deficiencies of water        settlements.                      old part of the city and in the new parts being
consumption in rural area.          -No control on misuse of drinking    developed.
-Lack of experience in the          water in the rural area for
preparation of projects of such a   agriculture.
level.                              -Water pollution is still in place in
certain areas, particularly in the
new infonnal and illegal areas.
-Poor capacity of DDWW in
managing efficiently billing and
collection of fees.
- Lack of the databases of the
sales office.
-Lack of proper qualification
especially of the
electro-mechanical staff in the
pump stations.
-The damage incurred during the
civil unrest in 1997.
-Lack of funds for the second
phase of the project.
Annex 9B:  Stakeholder Workshop Process
..        Introduction
In the context of the stakeholder workshop results, a workshop was organized in the city of Durres on
January 18, 2001 with the participation of experts, people that benefited from the project, local authorities
and the representatives of the World Bank (Mr. Andreas Rohde and Mr. Arben Bakllamaja). The
moderator of the workshop was Mr. Dashamir Shehi (CESS) and Mr. Ilir Gedeshi (local consultant).
Reports for the workshop were prepared by Mr. Ndricim Shani (Director of PIU) and Mr. Ilir Gedeshi.
There was a good level of participation and lively and productive comments and suggestions.
II.    Workshop Program
Part 1: Presentation of the findings from the project results, from Mr. Ndricim Shani and Mr. Ilir Gedeshi.
Distribution of the questionnaire to be filled by the participants.
Part 2: Discussions and comments on the presentation.
Part 3: Presentation of the survey outcomes and conclusions.
III.      Objectives of the workshop
*    To  evaluate the effects of the Durres Water Supply  Rehabilitation  Project through  discussions by
experts, beneficiaries and local authorities.
*    To listen to the remarks by the people that have benefited from  the project.
-37-



*   To draft recommendations for the improvement of work in the future.
IV.   Methodology
To solicit the opinions of the participants in a more organized and systematic manner, and to give equal
opportunity to all participants to express their views, a quick survey was organized (see Annex 9A
Stakeholder Survey Workshop Results). The questionnaire distributed to the participants requested
opinions on the positive and negative aspects of the project at preparation and implementation stages.
Also, participants were asked to provide opinions on the future of the water supply and sewerage in the
Durres District, especially taking into account the preparation of the Municipal Water and Wastewater
project for the privatization of the management and operation of the four water companies through the
management contract.
The questionnaire was distributed during the first part of the workshop and the outcome of the survey was
presented at the end of the workshop. After a brief evaluation done by the consultant, the comments and
suggestions were summarized in more detail as shown in the Annex 9A.
V.    Presentation
Mr. Ndricim Shani, highlighted briefly the rehabilitation of water supply system in Durres. According to
him, the first phase of the project (US$19.6 million) aimed at the indirect increase of the water quantity not
by increasing water sources, but through the decrease of the technical losses in the distribution system
through the replacement of decayed pipes and the installation of additional valves. In addition this would
automatically decrease potable water pollution because sewerage would not mix with drinking water.
Excluding the issue of institutional reform, which as an objective has not been accomplished, all the other
elements of the project have been fulfilled in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
What are the project achievements
*      65 km pipes have been laid in the urban area of the town of Durres and Shijak
(by replacing the existing lines or putting down new lines). Around 400 valves have been
replaced (approximately US$5.7 million).
*      24000 water meters were procured, of which approximately 16000 have been installed
(US$2 million).
*      A new water depot has been set up with a capacity of 2000 m3 (US$0. 18 million).
*      Two new canalization collectors have been constructed 2 km long, respectively 0.6 km in
Durres and 1,5 km in Shijak (US$350,000).
*      Adequate machinery and equipment have been procured for the maintenance and function
of the Water Supply and Canalization Unit in Durres, as well as two excavators, two
caterpillar vehicles, equipment for sewer cleaning (US$ 0.33 million).
*      A new billing database is set up for a pilot area in Durres. The system is backed up by a
generator and has a guaranteed voltage of not less that 200 V with powerful stabilizers.
*      Rehabilitation of the drinking water pumping stations (mainly in Fushe-Kuqe and
Fushe-Kruje) of the sewerage system (approximately US$ 3.3 million).
Nevertheless, Mr. Shani emphasized that the expected results of this project for the improvement of the
water supply system for Durres have not been achieved.
-38-



What the project did not achieve
*      The project did not improve the hours of water supply per day. The expected impact at
that time was the improvement of the water supply services for a population of about 80,000
inhabitants of the city of Durres.
*      The project did not improve the financial performance of the DDWW, partly because of the
lack of technical assistance. Only a part of the technical assistance related to metering,
computerization of billing and collection to strengthen the capacity of the
Durres District Water Works was provided during the project implementation.
Why the project's expected results were not achieved
*      Uncontrolled demographic movements (in the last 3-4 years the population of Durres
has doubled).
*      Interference in the distribution network (abuse and misuse is at very high rates).
This is a problem especially in the ex-swanp area where
illegal connections have taken place in the main pipe that supplies water depot no. 2.
This area wastes about 6,000 m3 water daily from a total of 14,000 m3 that enters
in the town of Durres (Ura e Dajlanit).
*      The increase of the illegal connections and waste of water in the rural areas (irrigation, etc).
Up to 40 percent of the drinking water planned for Durres city was consumed by farmers
in the rural areas. The remaining water that flows to Durres city (depot No. 4 was
around 32,000 m3 daily from a planned daily 48,000 m3).
*      Lack of the enforcement due to deterioration of public order during the civil unrest in 1997
and in the following years. This has caused a decrease of the collection to billing rate from
the customers.
*      Lack of local government participation.
This does not mean that the project has been ineffective. Due to the decrease of the technical losses in the
rehabilitated areas, there have been savings and at the same time there has been an increase of the water
quantity and pressure, but this has been insufficient to compensate for all the negative factors that are
mentioned above. These results are demonstrated by the tests in the pilot zones that have been rehabilitated
while taking over the proceedings (50 percent of the distribution circle has been rehabilitated), where the
level of the technical losses has been 25-30 percent as compared to over 50 percent previously in these
areas.
VI.   Findings of the workshop
From the report and the discussions by the participants in the workshop, the following conclusions were
drawn:
*   The project has achieved its objectives only partially. Among its successes are the improvement of the
water pressure in about 50 percent of the urban area of Durres, the improvement of the water quality
(sanitary and hygiene), improvement and water supply for the first time in some areas (Shijak) and
longer availability of the water supply. The workshop concluded that without the project, the water
supply situation in Durres would have been very difficult now.
*   The project has not met its anticipated results. One of the reasons for such a failure is that the project
-39-



did not anticipate the large demographic movements in the city of Durres. Another factor is the increase
of the consumption of the drinking water in the rural areas as a consequence of the increase of
population due to the internal migration and the increase of the consumption per capita of the
population due to the improvement of living conditions. Likewise, the rates of abuse of drinking water
have increased in the rural areas due to the destruction of the irrigation systems. All the above factors
were not foreseen by the project.
*   The project was conceived as a partial intervention in the drinking water system, while with the
above-mentioned changes, the city of Durres was and is in need of a global intervention.
*   During the implementation, the project encountered several difficulties of an institutional nature,
including the lack of local government participation and the diminished role of the DDWW which
appeared to have had a negative impact on the project outcomes. This, was because of the insistence of
the Ministry of Public Works to centrally manage the project implementation through its contracted
PIU. The rationale for this was that at that time there was no capacity at local level to manage the
project.
*   Another shortcoming during implementation of the project was financial, i.e., the low water sales out of
production and the low collection rate of the billings. Under these conditions the utility is not in a
position to cover operation costs. This is caused by the failure to increase the water fees in accordance
with the initial expectations of the project, failure to collect the billed fees and also due to the
persistence of the losses and abuse of the water supply network.
*   Another unsuccessful element was the water meters failure of implementation to generate additional
revenue for the utility.
3   An additional shortcoming is the lack of a database setup for the payment system. Only Fee Collection
Unit No. 2 has a database for a computerized payment system.
3   One of the conclusions drawn in the workshop is that it is critical to continue the rehabilitation of the
Durres Supply especially in the most problematic areas such as the Keneta area, in Shkozet and along
the coastlines. The local authorities (The Mayor of Durres, the Member of Parliament of the area, and
the Prefect of Durres submitted this suggestion).
* The continuous increase of water prices in the future was viewed as a concern by the local authorities
because it may cause hardship for poor families that would not be able to afford it. If water tariff
increases, with other supplementary measures to subsidize the tariff for poor families should be taken.
DDWW managers believe that the increase of the water prices to a cost recovery level is an
indispensable measure for the improvement of water services to the city.
*   The legislation on drinking water must be improved and implemented accordingly by all actors
involved.
VII.  Survey Outcome
A survey was conducted during the workshop and all the participants had a chance to express their opinion
on the negative or positive aspects of the project. Out of the 29 participants in the workshop, 24 responded
to the survey. The survey intended to gather opinion's on project preparation implementation and
improvements for the future. In brief the opinions for each of these issues are in Annex 9A.
-40-



Workshop Participants
1. Florian MUSTAFARAJ               Director of DDWW
2. Naim KECI                        Chief Engineer of DDWW
3. Zihni BEQIRAJ                    Member of Parliament
4. Miri HOTI                        Mayor of the Durres City
5. Andrea TOLE                      Regional Council, Durres
6. Emrush MAZANI                    Regional Council, Durres
7. Ermir KECI                       Supervising Council, Durres
8. Mehdi TATANI                     Chief of the Durres District
9. Besnik KLERTUSHA                 Vice Major of the Durres City
10. Petrit KOVACI                   Subcontractor for the civil works of the main contract
11. Ilmi GJECI                      Commune Chairman, Maminas
12. Shefqet MARTINAJ                Responsible of the Fushe-Kuqe
13. Adrian RADOVICKA                        Former Director of DDWW
14. Ibrahim KOCAJ                   Responsible of the Fushe-Kruja pumping station
15. Sali VOGLI                      Director of EUS, Kavaje
16. Arben KONI                      Chief of the Billing Department
17. Klodian PAJUNI                  Director of the Sewage Sector of the DDWW
18. Nikolin RISILIA                 Water PIU, Supervising engineer, Durres
19. Elda HAVERIKU                   Water PIU, Durres
20. Meri DECOLLI                    Water PIU, Durres
21. Ndricim SHANI                   Director of the Water PIU
22. Petrit AJAZI                    Prefect of Durres and Kruja District
23. Guri BICJA                      Chief of the service sector in the Durres Prefecture
24. Andrea MAZNIKU                  Ex. Vice Minister of Public Work
25. Andreas ROHDE                   World Bank
26. Arben BAKLLAMAJA                World Bank
27. Ilir GEDESHI                    Local Consultant, CESS
28. Dashamir SHEHI                  Ex. Minister of Public Work, CESS
29. Emil OSTROSI                    CESS
30. Mira HAXHIAJ                    CESS
-41-



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This report has been written as a part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared by
the World Bank. Some of the information on the project covered by the Bank are not duplicated in this
report.
1.     Source of Funding
AT APPRAISAL
The World Bank credit = SDR8.4 million (US$11.6 million)
GoA credit = US$4.0 million
GoA grant & equity = US$1.6 million
DDWW water revenues = US$2 million
METAP grant = US$0.3 million
AT THE END OF THE PROJECT
The World Bank credit = US$11,436,520.60 (XDR8,224,915.25)
GoA credit = US$3.928 million
GoA grant & equity = US$1.849 million
DDWW water revenues = US$0.0 million
METAP grant = US$0.3 million
Credit agreement signed: 06/14/1994
Credit effective date: 01/04/1995
Closing date: 12/31/2001
Final Disbursement date (last cancellation): 05/10/2000
The latest disbursement made on 10th August, 2000.
The unused remaining funds by the Credit: in US$226,668.12 (in XDR175,084.75).
The project was started with the arrival of the consultant (identification of the project and Feasibility Study)
on October 1992, the irnplementation of the project has suffered by some suspension because of the
political situations in Albania. We mention the turmoils of the March 1997, which blocked all Bank project
activities in Albania for about 9 month. In September 1998 another unrest provoked by the assassination of
an opposition deputy led to the appointment of a new Government, and the last one was the Kosovo Crisis
in early 1999, with its massive influx of about 450,000 refugees into Albania, seriously strained Albanian
institutions to carry out the programs with donors as planned, especially it's institutional part.
The project was closed one year before because of prolonged noncompliance of the DDWW with the
Section 4.02(a) of the Project Agreement to meet the financial covenants. The latest date for disbursement
was October 5, 2000, but the PIU finished the disbursement under the Credit in advance, i.e. August 10,
2000.
-42-



2.     Project Objectives:
The project's objectives has been (i) to eliminate water shortages and associated health risks to the
population in the project area; and (ii) to establish a strong local institutional framework for the provision
of water supply and sewerage services and financial viability of the DDWW.
The Project approach was to eliminate the water shortage through the reduction of the water leakage and
wastage of the existing system (there was not foreseen new additional water sources in the system), and
improve water demand management. The total population served by the system was 209,000 inhabitants,
from which only 87,780 (42 percent) was expected to receive substantial improvements.
Description of the Components                   Current Costs
(In  million   US$  in
appraisal)
A. Water Supply and Transmission                                 3.556
B. Water Distribution                                            9.689
C. Water Loss Reduction                                          0.856
D. Sewerage                                                      0.700
E. Institutional Strengthening (Water Supply)                    2.029
F. Institutional Strengthening (Sewerage)                        0.845
G. Project Preparation and Supervision                            1.843
TOTAL                                                            19.519
3.     Achievements of Objectives and Outputs
(i) Under the Project components in six areas (zones) in Durres city and in Shijak there were laid about 37
km main pipelines, 26 km services lines and 360 main valves installed. There were rehabilitated all water
and sewer pumping stations of the system, constructed a new 2000m3 water reservoir, build two sewer
collectors (about 2.5 km) in Durres and Shijak and 16000 domestic meters installed. DDWW and DDSW
were provided with equipment for O&M, a new computerized billing system was installed in DDWW, etc.
The project passed a very difficult period during the civil unrest of March 1997, but due to the quick
reaction of the PIU, the site in which were situated the warehouses of the project materials and the PIU and
Engineer Offices was saved. Only some materials in the warehouses were lost or thieved (small amount).
Nevertheless the physical improvements in the system, the objective to supply with water for 24 hours the
customers in the targeted areas were not met. The hours per day of water supply are still 3-4.
-43-



This was because the increasing of the illegal connection in the system, and the uncontrolled consumption
especially in the rural area. The population in Durres City was doubled by the uncontrolled immigration
coming from northeast areas of Albania, and the consumption of the rural areas was increased especially by
the misuses of the potable water for irrigation. The rural area, which represent 38 percent of the population,
consumed about 50 percent of the water produced, thus the Durres city population is receiving 20 percent
less water than before, having the twice of the population of the project beginning. The losses in the
rehabilitated areas were reduced from more than 50 percent, in 25-30 percent, it means that about 5,000
m3/day water was more available in the city. In the meantime the pressure in the rehabilitated areas is
increased by the reduction of the losses in the network.
After implementation of the project, in all rehabilitated areas there weren't cases of the contamination of the
potable water by mixing with water coming from the sewage system, while before starting the project the
frequency of the contamination in these areas was from 4 to 5 in a year. The improvement regarding the
diminishing the health risks was evident in all rehabilitated areas. In the end of the Project the positive
factors by the physical investment couldn't upset the situation created by the aforesaid negative factors.
(ii) The Project aimed to provide assistance in the sectors of accounting, billing and collection, financial
management, information and maintenance management. This was intended to be implement through a
twining arrangement with a qualified water company in a developed country. The assistance failed to be
provided. Only the computerization of billing and collection for a pilot area was accomplished in the end of
the project. The efforts also for a Water Code proposed by the assistance of the billing system it was not
legally formalized because of the political situation after the unrest of the 1997.
The DDWW failed to become self-sufficient. In the end of the Project the working ratio is 1,6 instead of 0,6
targeted for the financial covenant. The main reasons were:
v The Government did not remove the cap of tariff starting not latter than June 30,1994, as committed in
the Credit Agreement. Actually the water tariff is still 40 percent below the cost.
*   Only 32 percent of water produced was billed; the collection rate of which is 60 percent.
*   Kavaja water company didn't paid for the quantity of the water provided by DDWW.
3   The drastic diminishing of the activity of industry sector, which lead in a reduction of the water sales
from 5.1 million m3/a year in 1994, in 0.3 million m3 water in 2000 in this sector.
3   The debt towards the KESH (Albanian Electric Company), which was increased continuously even by
the tariff s increase of the electricity.
*   The lack of a policy and strategy from the Albanian Government in the water sector.
*   The lack of technical assistance for DDWW  for improvement of their commercial and financial
management capacity.
4.     Major factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
The performance of the Project was based in physical improvement of the system, an institutional
strengthening and in viable financial management of DDWW. While the physical investments were
implemented with a good performance, the institutional strengthening and DDWW financial viability
remained the feeble point of the Project. Some of the factors affecting implementation and outcome of the
Project are as below:
4.1    Overestimation of the outputs. The outputs were overestimated in the Project. The performances
indicators were very optimistic, taking in consideration the unexplored way to follow in the project in a
country during the transition development.
-44-



4.2   Insufficiencv of the Borrower experience in water sector. The Borrower in all levels was
unprepared to face entirely the institutional issues to be resolved in the Project. The lack of the sector
strategy lead to the underestimation for the commitments regarding the institutional strengthening and the
steps to be undertaken by the central and local government.
4.2.1  It was not taken by the government the decision for removing the cap of the tariff, or its increase.
Many times was considered a political issue, which can affect the political election campaign.
4.2.2  The regulatory framework in the water sector was very old and incomplete to face the issues for
improvement in the sector. The draft of the water-code proposed by the consultant was not supported by the
central and local institutions.
4.2.3  The government didn't pay attention about the DDWW debt towards the KESH and the impacts by
the continuous increasing the tariffs of the last one.
4.3    Political instability. All the events happened in 1997, 1998, 1999 have had a direct impact for the
implementation of overall project, especially in the institutional aspects. In front of the serious problems
generated by the lack of public order in Albania, it was impossible for DDWW monitoring the system and
having the duly framework to control the new connections, to collect the bills, and to manage the misuses of
the water by the customers. It was very difficult during this period even for resolving the problem of the
technical assistance for the financial and all the aspects of the management by the twining with a foreign
experienced water company.
4.4    Uncontrolled immigration in the proiect area. All the immigration settlement was connected with
the main or distribution network illegally and not respecting the technical standards. No contracts, no
receivables by them.
4.5    UNdating of master plan for the water and sewerage. This component was not accomplished in the
project. This was necessary for a new components orientation of the project.
5.     Bank Performance.
Bank performance during the project implementation has been generally satisfactory. The Bank gave a big
contribution working with an implementation agency, which hadn't the needed experience for
implementation of the project, especially in the beginning.
It was impossible to improve the performance of the institutional aspects, seeing the political situation
created during the life of the Project. The suspension of the project wouldn't be the best solution in this
case.
6.     Borrower Performance
The performance of the Borrower during the project implementation has been unsatisfactory. Although a
good performance in the earlier phase of the project period, the Borrower, through the implementation
agency (PIU), paid attention only for the physical aspects of the project and wasn't active for resolving the
institutional issues. The good performance of PIU in physical implementation of the project was because of
its relative autonomy, avoiding the excessive bureaucratic links during the execution of the project.
7.     Lessons Learned
7.1   Institutional issues. It was necessary to give more preponderance to the institution issues since the
beginning of the project. The focus was to meet physical targets, while the institutional changes where
.45._



marginalized. The Bank should have assisted in parallel the Borrower for a new National Sector Strategy.
In this context, the key point of self-financing of the water works utility was the removal of the cap of tariff.
This courageous step, in very poor country and in a utility with very high operation & maintenance costs,
has to be kept by an entire strategy for reaching it. While, this was mentioned only in one line in the Credit
Agreement.
7.2    Elasticity of the components. In a country in transition, for a long life project (in this case 7
years) it is impossible to foresee demographical and political changes. In this case it was needed, either the
revision of the project components during the life of the project, or advancing with the projects with shorter
execution time.
7.3    Participation of all stakeholders.  Local government participation during the preparation and
implementation is essential for reaching the improvement of the water and sewer services in the area. The
local authorities gave a contribution during the preparation phase of the project, but their role and
contribution especially the institutional one during the implementation was marginal. The institutional
engagement of the Local Authorities is needed formalizing in written document in these kind of projects.
-46-



