Documeut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12316-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12316 ALB
Type: SAR
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restied ditibuton and may be ued by redpiens only In the peafonmnane of
their official duties. Its conents may not oterise be dislosed without Wodd Bank autwrizato



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Lek per US$)
Jan-Aug    Sep-Dec    Jan-Jun      Jul-Dec
1987-90     1991       1991        1992        1992        1993
Leks per US$     8.00      10.00      25.00       30.00       100.00      100.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kIn      = Kilometer (0.621 miles)
1      = Liter (0.264 US gallons)
I/cd      = Liters per capita per day
1/sec     = Liters per second (15.8 gallons per minute)
m3       = Cubic meter (264 US gallons)
m3/sec      = Cubic meters per second (22.8 million gallons per day)
Mm3        = Million cubic meters (264 million gallons)
ABBREVIAT1oNS AND ACRONYMS USED
DCSW        Durres City Sewerage Works
DDWW         Durres District Water Works
DDSW        Durres District Sewerage Works
GOA       Government of Albania
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IS     International Shopping
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
METAP        Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MIS       Management Information System
MOC        Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territory
Adjustment
PCR       Project Completion Report
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
SSW       Shijak Sewerage Works
ALAAN  GoVERNNT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECIT
CRWDI AND ftOJEC SUMMARY
BORowER:              GQovenuent of Albania (GOA)
BENimcIARmES:         Durres District Water Works (DDWW), Durres City Sewerage Works
(DCSW)- and Shijak- Sewerage Works (SSW)
AmOUNa:               SDR 8.4 million (US$11.6 million equivalent)
TRm:                  Standard with 40 years maturity
ONCEMING TERMS:   25 years, including six years grace, at 7% interest
PRoJECT OBnnC3vT : The Project's main objectives would be to eliminate water shortages
and associated health risks to the existing population in the project area
and to establish a strong local institutional framework for the provision
of water supply and sewerage services so that the improvements will be
sustainable.
PROJECT DESCRU'TON: The proposed Project would rehabilitate pocirly maintained water supply
and sewerage systems in Durres District which includes Durres City,
Albania7s secor.d largest city and its main port, and strengthen local
institutons. The main project investment components are water
distribution network rehabilitation, pumping station rehabilitation, well
field rehabilitation, a water loss reduction and demand management
program, and critical repairs to sewerage collection systems in Durres
City and Shijak. An institutional strengthening component would
address the needs of the beneficiaries.
PROJECT BENEFmS
AM) RISKS:            The benefits of the Project would be a safe and dependable water
supply for 200,000 existing consumers in the Durres and Kavaja
Districts with attendant health benefits and the elinination of water
supply as a constraint to economnic development. About 100,000
residents in Durres City and Shijak Town would benefit from improved
sewerage service. In addition, it is expected that the experiences
learned by the MOC during the implementation of this project would be
of benefit to the whole sector in the future.
There are three significant risks to successful implementation of the
Project. The first is that the rehabilitation measures to be undertaken
will not reduce the water losses enough to significantly improve watr
lbis documt has a rM*ed dis on and may be usd by reipias only in the w m     ofteir
offical duties It ts   nots mtnherWe be disclosd wBWodd B   autho oa



- ii -
service in the proJect area as has happened in similar projects in otier
countries. To maximize the chances for success, the borrower has
engaged a firm with demonstrated success in sinilar situations to
prepare and supervise implementation of the Project and has given
particular importance to the design of the water loss reduction and
demand management components of the Project. The second risk is
ta the weakmess of the existing instittitons will result in delays in
implementation. The presence of the same consultants should minimize
this risk too. nh0 third risk i- financial. It is possible that the DDWW
will not raise sufficient cash to fund the local share of the project cost.
Close monitoring by the Association by frequent missions and quarterly
reporting to the Association by the DDWW on the status of their
finances should enable any shortfall to be identified quickly so that
remedial action can be taken.
ETImATED PRoJEcT CoSr: a/
LOCAL.    FORM8N      TOTAL
-USS miion-
A. Wat Supply and Transmon              1.0        1.9        2.9
B. Wae Distibution                      3.4        4.9        8.4
C. Water LAs Reduction                  0.2        0.6        0.8
D. Sewera                               0.4        0.2        0.6
E. Istitutional Stregthening (Water)    0.2        1.5        1.8
F. Institutional Strngthenng (Sewerg)   0.1        0.6        0.7
0. Project Preparion and Engineering    0.2        1.6        1.8
-Base--: :t   50-  --               -S.6        11.2       16.9
Physical Contingencies                  0.5        0.9        1.5
Price Contingencies                     0.5        0.6        1.1
. .
al      ot Cost - - ---   . -        6.8        12.7       19.5
LI Includes USS1.2 million in cudoms duties an taxes.



FINANCING. PLAN:
LOcAL     FOREGN      ToTAL
-USS Million-
IDA Credit                           3.2        8.4        11.6
GOA Credit                            -         4.0         4.0
GOA Grant& Bquty                     1 .         -          16
Water Revenue                        2.0         -          2.0
METAP Grant                           -         0.3         0.3
T~aU'i*mioIn.                    4.~        12.7       19.S
A1 Reimbursemnit for customs duties and taxes, countelpart fimding for tho
sewerge component and the difference between IDA serice charges and
olending interest.
ESTED _m:
WORLD BANK FISCAL YEAR
1994 1995  1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
US$ milion
Annual          0.2   1.4   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   1.1   0.5
Cumulative      0.2   1.6   3.7   5.8   7.9  10.0  11.1  11.6
RAE OF RETuRN:               10.6%
POVERTY CATEGORY:            Not Applicable



v -
ALBANA         '
DURRES WATER SUPPLY-REHABIUTATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAAGE No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................... i-iii
I. PROJECT ORIGIN AND SETING              ..................1.......... 
The Project ........................................                         I
Project Origin  .................................  1
Bank Program Objective Categories ........................... 2
IH. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
AND ALBANIA'S WATER RESOURCES  ..................  2
Water Resources .       ...................................  2
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector         ............... .               3
Rationale for Association Involvement in the Sector ................ .       4
Sector Organization and Regiuatory Environment ..................            4
Sector Service Levels          ........................5 
Sector Investment and Financing .....        ............... .               6
Constraints to Sector Development ............... .                          6
Bank/IDA Water and Sewerage Sector Experience .......... ... .               7
Association Goals for the Sector .................                           8
Im. EXISTING WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
AND ADEQUACY OF SERVICE IN THE PROJECT AREA  ... 8
The Project Area             ........................                        8
Popilation and Population Served  ................                           9
Existing Dures District Water Supply System               .        .         9
Existing Sewerage and Drainage Systems ........................ 11
Plumbing iwithin Public and Private Buildings ..................... 12
Docunentaton ......................................... 12
This report is based on an apprisal misson which visited Aba  In June 1993. The Project was
prepared by Richard MacEwen (Senior Sanitary Engineer and Task Manage), Katherine Funk (Cost
Conltat), Richard Shoensten (Enrnmental Consultant), Malcolm Sumnmerfield (nacal and
Economic Consultant) and Charles Todd (IEnancial Consultant). Daniel Coyaud (Senor Sanitary
Engineer), William Hayden (Senior Financial Analyst) and Vincent Gouarne (Senor Urban Financial
Specialist) were Peer Reviewers. The responsible Division Chief is Rory O'Sullvan and the Department
Dicor is Kemal Derni. Parvin Babunast assisted with report assembly and editng.
This document has a restricted disibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  1
Iteir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsclosed without World Bank authozaton 



- vi -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Adequacy of Service and Requirements tor Inprovement  ....                        ......... 13
Future Water Demand ...............                                                            13
Water Sales Projections  ................                      .     .-.-                      I1-4
IV. SECTOR INSTITUTTINS IN -THE PROJECT A-EA  ..........                               .........       16
General ....-..; ..;...;.;.16
The Durres District Water Works (DDWW) .........                         ............. 16
Durres City Sewerage Works (DCSW)........................... 19
Shijak Sewerage Works (SSW)  ..............................  19
Action Plans for Institutional Strengthening  .........                  ............. 19
V. THE PROJECT......................................... 20
Introduction   .......................................    20
Project Objectives ....................................... 20
Project Description ...................I................... 20
Project Cost ........................................ 23
Financing Plan .......................................    25
Status of Preparation ..................................... 27
Environmental Impact .................................... 27
Project Sustainability ..................................... 28
Procurement .......................................    28
Disbursements  .......................................   31
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION ................................. 33
General  .. ........................................... 33
Current Situation and Prospects for DDWW  ...................... 33
Fancial Strateg  for DDWW  and the Project .................... 36
Future imnancial Performance of DDWW ...................... I . 37
VH. PROJECT EMPLEMENTATION ............................... 38
Organization and Management  .............................. 38
Project hmplementation   .............                   ...................... 39
Management of Project Funds ............................... 40
Auditing Arrangements ................................... 40
Project Monitoring and Evaluatio-  .........                    ................... 40
Reporting Requirements . .................................. 40
Association Supervion ................................... 42
VIII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC EVALUATION  AND RISKS ............... 42
Benefits ............................................. 42
Least Cost Solution  . ....................................... 43
Rate of Return .............................. .......... 43
Average Incremental Cost of Water (AIC) ....................... 43
Affordability  ........................................... 4



- vii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Poverty Impact ................                                  4.  ....44
Risks                                  ... 45
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                            .          45
IUST OF ANNEXES
I     1taterSupplyRequired ...1........................                         S5
2     DurresDistrit Water Work Organization...................                  57
3     DunTsDistict Water Work Staffimg .......................... 59
4     Accounting Practices in Albania
and the New Accounting Iaw .................... ....... 61
5     Action Plan for the Jisttioual Strengthening
of the Durres l)istrict Water Works ....................... 63
6     Action Phl  for Improving the Management of Sewerage
Services in the Durres District ............ ............. 65
7     Legal Description of the Project ..............................  67
8     Terms of Reference for Institutional
Strengthening Technical Assistance ....................... 69
9     Operation and Maintenance Equipment Requirements  ............... 81
10    Project Cost Es_nates a ......... *  . * a a **  * ... * .   *   ** .83
11    Proflles of Potental ndustrial Polluters........................ 89
12    Conrcs for Project .mplementation.......... .                                 91
13    Allocation of Credit Proceeds  ....      aaa....................... * ......a. 93
14    Disbursement Schedule ...... .         ...      .. ..  a...... * . 95
15    Financial Projections ......a................a.... 97
16    Project bnplementation Pln ........         . .. a       ... a ...a..a. 109
17    Project nplementation Schedule by Contract .................... 113
18    Project Tares and Monitoring Indicators............                      115
19    Cost and Benefit Strem
for Rate of Return Calculation ... a.a               a            117
20    Average ncreu!entalCostCalcuaton ......................... 119
21    SelectedDcumentsandDaa in theProjectF- le ................... 121
MAP
IBRD No. 25146



ABANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABIrITATION PROJECT
I. -PROJECT ORIGIN AND SElTlING
THE PROJECr
1.1   The proposed Project would improve water and sewerage service in service area of the
Durres District Water Works (DDWW), the project area, which covers Albania's second largest
city and main port, other towns and villages in the Durres District and a small area in the Tirana
District. Benefits also would accrue to Kavaja District to the south which has its own water
works that purchases bulk water from the Durres District Water Works. The peranent
population of the service areas of the two water works is 271,000 (Durres - 221,000 and Kavaja
- 50,000) of which 209,000 (77 percent) are connected).' Because of inadequacies in the water
supply systems, water availability for domestic use is limited on an average to three hours a day
in the DDWW service area. About 30 percent of the population with a tap get no water at all.
The poor condition of the systems causes inconvenience and economic loss and is a threat to
public health. Negative pressures in the distnbution network allow untreated ground water and
possibly sewage to enter the system and contminate the supply which at the source is of good
quality. In the past ten years, four typhoid epidemics in Durres have been traced to
contamination of the water supply. Durres and Kavaja Districts are not unique. Of the 250
water systems in Albania, only one is reported to provide 24 hour-a-day service to all its
customers.
1.2   Sewerage service in the project area is also deficient. Coverage is low. Only Durres
City, Durres Beach and Shijak, a small town east of Durres City on the road to Tirana, have
systems and these are poorly maintaied. None of the systems have treatment plants.
PROJECT ORIGIN
1.3   The Government of Albania's (GOA) priority areas for improving water service are the
Tirana District which inclhdes the City of Tirana, Albania's capital and largest city, and the
Durres District. The priority of these areas is based on their economic importance and the size
of the population that would benefit from water and sewerage system improvements. The
combined population of both districts is 600,000 (19% of Albania's total population). The
Association chose the Dunfes District for its first operation in the sector because the Italian
Government had aleady committed resources to improving the water supply and sewerage
systems for the Tirana District. The Project would also take into account the water supply
requiements of the Kavaja Distict. The upgrading of the distrbution system of the Kavaja
Water Works is being addressed by a separte project fmanced with a DM10 million grant from
I/    Anoher 5% of he popuaion live in small towns and villages which have access to a piped water supply.
The remainn 18% have individual or community dug wells.



-2 -
the Government of Germany under the direction of KfV. The Associationi and KfW are
coordinating their efforts to avoid any duplication.
1.4   A project to improve water service in the Durs District has been-in the planning stages
by GOA since 1985.  When the Association first became involved, local efforts were
concentrating only on increasing production. No effort had been directed at curtailing leakage
and wastage of water or improving maintenance, efforts- which are the main goals of the
Association Project. GOA requested Association support for the Project. in March 1992. In
June 1992, GOA request  a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of $1.0 million to
finance a feasibility study and a water audit. The PPF was approved on August 25, 1992. It
was supplemented by a Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP)
grant of $337,000 equivalent approved on January 12, 1993 to finance the demand management
aspects of the feasibility study. GOA requested and the Association approved a supplemental
PPF advance of $500,000 on June 11, 1993 to complete final designs and prepare bidding
documents.
BANK PROGRAM OBwEnW  CATEGORS
1.5   The core program objective categories for Albania are poverty and the enviromnent. The
project would help alleviate poverty by making reliable water scrvice available at affordable
prices to the urban poor in the project area. The Project would also address environmental
concerns by improving sewerage collection systems in two urban areas and implementing water
pricing policies that reflect real costs.
HI. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
AND ALBANIA'S WATER RESOURCES
WATER RESOURCE5
2.1   Albania is a water-rich country with an annual average water availability of 3,080
m3/capita, the highest in Central and Eastern Europe. Both ground water and surface water are
prevalent. The total annual runoff is on average 25.7 billion m3 of water. Of this amount,
about 2% or 558 millon m3 can be stored in 653 irrigation reservoirs with a live storage
capacity of 524 million m3. In addition, there are three large storage reservoirs on the Drin
River (total capacity 2,368 million m3) used solely for hydropower production. Energy from
hydropower has been a major foreign exchange eamer, and plans to export raw water to Italy
have been discussed. Ground water is the main source of supply for domestic, commercial and
industrial water supplies.
2.2   Water resource planning and development in Albania is fragmented and ad hoc.
Sustainable development and proper allocation of Albania's water resources requires long term
plarding of water uses across sectors. Current water development and management has to be
reorganized and a national water strategy developed. GOA recognizes this need and has recently
proposed the establishment of a the National Water Council to manage the country's water
resources more effectively. The Council's first task would be to prepare a national water



-3 -
strategy. The Association has already assisted in this effort by preparing terms of reference for
the stategy and is currently assisting GOA to find financing.
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECrOR
2.3   Statistically, the water supply sector in Albania would seem to be well developed. There
are 250 water systems which serve about 80% of the population. The unserved population relies
mostly on dug wells. However, because of poor operation and maintenance, none of the systems
provide an adequate level of service. Every system is subject to shortages, most as a result of
leakage and waste. ihe installation of meters is universal; however, most of the meters are
broken and those that work are not always read. As a result, the degree of the leakage and
wastage can only be estinated. Because customers are billed on a flat rate, they have no
incentive to conserve.
2.4   There are 75 water borne sewerage systems serving 30% of the population. The rest'rely
on septic tanks, cess pools and pit latrines. Systems are poorly maintained because of the lack
of adequate maintenance equipment. As a result, backups are common. None of the systems
have any form of sewage treatment. Discharges are generally to the nearest river or drainage
canal.
2.5  Institutionally, the sector is in a state of change. In the past, all the water and sewerage
works were under the jurisdiction of the central government. For example, the central
government controlled investment decisions, investment funding, tariffs and even local operating
budgets. Only day-to-day operations were controlled at the local level. Now, with more
autonomy being granted to the local governments, GOA continues to maintain jurisdiction over
all of the 75 sewerage works but orJy six of the 250 water works, including the Durres District
Water Works (DDWW). The remaining water works are the responsibility of the municipalities
and/or districts they serve. They are responsible for paying operation and maintenance costs
from their revenues and are allowed to retain any operating surplus for investment. However,
most investments are still funded from the national budget with MOC setting the investment
priorities. GOA realizes that it must transfer more responsibility to the local water and sewerage
works and has agreed to support the Association in carrying out a sector strategy study that
would, among other issues, address the options available (para 2.14).
2.6   Water tariffs are subject to a price cap set uniformly for every water works by the
Council of Ministers without regard to cost differences between areas or the achievement of any
particular level of cost recovery. This is a carryover from the past when the provision of water
services was seen as part of the package of social benefits made available to the people by the
central government. The low cost borne by the consumers for these and other social services
was partly justified by the relatively low salaries paid to workers. Even now, salaries of most
consumers are litde more than $24/month. Similarly, sewerage service, where provided, is paid
from the national budget and is free for consumers. MOC sets the priorities and allocates funds
for most all investnent. The result has been lack of commitment by local authorities, deferred
maintenance and under investment. MOC would like to give local jurisdictions more
responsibility for investment decisions and financing, but so far it has neither the authority nor
a plan for making the change. The present challenge for Albania is to set up a system of cost



4 .
recovery to ensure adequate funds for operation and maintenance and eventually expansion of
water supply systems. The situation is fairly unique because-of the low level of purchasing
power in Albania compared with the standard of service that can be provided by the water
systems in place (i.e. running water delivered to housing units). In other countries with similar
income levels, hand carried water is often the only possibility. Clearly a transiti vn path in cost
recovery is required in this sector as in many other parts of the economy.
RATIONALE FOR ASSOCIATION IOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
2.7  Inadequate water supply and sewerage service, especially in urban areas, is a risk to
public health, an impediment to economic growth and a source of grea. hardship on the
population. Whereas the needs of the sector are great, the resources are limited. Short term
improvements will only come about if better use is made of the existing resources through good
management, efficient operation and effective maintenance. Long term improvements will
require institutional and policy changes at the national level. By its presence, the Bank can
promote policy changes and ensure that the iimited resources are utilized in the most efficient
manner. The District of Durres, an economically important area where the situation is
particularly bad, is a good starting place for the Association to demonstrate what is possible with
limited resources. It is also a logical choice in view of the fact that the water system problems
in  irana District are being addressed by the Italian Govenmuent and the Gennan Government
is financing projects in the smaller towns.
SECIOR ORGANIZATioN AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
2.8   Ministry of Construction, Housing and Teritory Adjustment (MOC). At the national level
MOC has primary responsibility for the sector. It has a staff of 85 divided among four main
departments, each headed by a vice minister. Water supply and sewerage is a division witiin
the public services department. The other departments are construction and housing, economic
planning and finance. In the water supply and sewerage sector, MOC contributes to the
preparation of laws and regulations, sets investment priorities for budgetary investnent funds,
funds the operating budget for the nation's 75 sewerage works, mobilizes non-budgetary
fiancing for investments, exercises direct control over six water works which rely on the same
water source, and, on an ad hoc basis, coordinates special projects of national importance such
as the Durres Project and the Italian financed Tirana project. MOC also advises the Council of
Ministers on the setting of maxiimum tariffs that can be charged by the nation's water works.
MOC and the water supply and sewerage division in particular are currently redefining their
roles and searching for ways to facilitate the improvement of water supply and sewerage services
in Albania. The Association intends to assist MOC in this endeavor (para 2.14).
2.9   State Sanitary Inspectorate. Another national agency with a role in the sector is the State
Sanitary Inspectorate, a department of the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection.
The inspectorate has wide ranging powers for the protection of human health, including the
enforcement of hygienic and sanitary laws and regulations, and the monitoring of the application
of hygienic and health standards for labor. It also sets the legal standards for and controls the
quality and safety of drnking water and food. It can stop the delivery of drinkng water when
the stdards it has set are not met and can impose ffnes. The monitoring and inpection is



cafried out by inspectors assigned at the district level. The testing of samples is camed out in
laboratories operated by the Insitute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, also under the Ministry of
Health and Environmental Protection. There are two inspectors for each of the 27 districts.
2.10  Local Water and Sewerage Works Organizations. Local jurisdictions cary the main
responsibility for the provision-of water and sewerage service. Except for the six water works
under the control of MOC, water works and sewerage works fnetion as departmen  of districts,
municipaliies, tQowns and villages. They are responsible for operation and maintenance of the
service and identifying new invesunent needs. In the past, the water works and sewerage works
made these needs known to the apppriate minist troug  the district and municipal
governmental struture. That ministry then set investment priorities and budgeted the hins
annually to carry out the pnonty projects. The funds passed from the ministry to one or more
of the design institues which prepared the projects and to one of eleven constmction institutes
which unplemented them. Today, the design and construction institues are undergoing
privadzation and the whole process is in a state of change. Presently, the water works and the
sewerage works are allocated funds for approved projects by MOC. They are then free to
contract with either the institutes and former govemment enprises or with private companies
to carny out their projects. The problem at present is the lack of funds at any level of
government to finance investments in the sector. Tariffs are rarely high enough to generate
funds for investment.
SECTOR SERVICE LEVElS
2.11 Water supply and sewerage service levels in Albania are high compared to the Bank's
other borrowers. National figures for 1989, the latest available, are mmarized in Tables 2.1
and 2.2. While coverage is high, quality of service is poor. All the systems suffer from lack
of proper maintenance.
TABLE 2.1: 1989 WATER SUPPLY SERVICE LEVELS (PERCENT)
Level of Service    Combined Urban ad Rural      Urban             Rural
Urban and Rural Interior           16.4                63.0               4.9
Yard tap                           28.2                29.7              27.8
Public stmndpipe or access         35.4                 5.9              42.6
Yard wel                           11.1                 1.6              13.4
Other                              8.9                  0.5              11.3
Total                             -100X        -       l.O              100.0
Source:  1991 Stadstical Year Book of Albania, Staudscal Direcwy of the Ministy of onomy, Tirana,
1991



6-
TABLE 2.2: 1989 SEWERAGE SERVICE LEVELS (PERCENT)
Level of Service     Combined Urban and Rural     Urban               Rural
Waterborne sewerage                 24.1                 71.5                12.5
Septic tank or cess pool            71.9                 25.9                83.1
Latrine                             3.4                   1.4                3.9
Other                               0.6      -1-.2                        --.5
Total                               100.0                100.0              100.0
Source:  1991 Statistical Year Book of Albania, Statistical Directory of the Ministry of Economy, Tirana,
1991
SECTR INVEBTmENT AND FINANCING
2.12 Planned sector wide investment in 1993 is Leks 443 million (US$4.0 million equivalent),
an insignificant amount compared to what is needed. Realized investments since 1990 are in
Table 2.3. Clearly, there has been under investment in the sector since 1990. Developed
countries typically invest 0.3 to 0.5 percent of GDP and 1.0 to 1.5 percent of total investment
in water supply and sewerage. Annual per capita investment in developed countries is usually
10 times as much.
TABLE 2.3: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECrOR INVESTMENT (1990-92)
Annual investment (equivalent US$)
% of Total
Year             Total              Per Capita         % of GDP       Investment
1992            900,000               0.30               0.09            0.84
1991           2,500,000              0.80               0.12            1.99
1990           5,200,000               1.70              0.25            0.76
CONSMRAINTS TO SECmR DEVELOPMENT
2.13 The main constraint to development of the sector is the shortage of investment financing;
however, lack of a proper policy framework is also a problem. The poor state of the national
economy and the demand for scarce resources from all sectors will continue to make it difficult
for the sector to obtain the resources it needs. However, even if financing were available, tariff
policies must be changed to permit full cost recovery in the sector. At present, GOA sets the
maximum tariff that can be charged for water and sewerage services. In a few systems, the
maximum tariff is adequate to cover operation and maintenance costs, but nowhere is it adequate
to cover depreciation. Sewerage charges are not permitted. As a result, all costs for sewerage
services are paid from the national budget.



7 -
2.14 Other policy issues are: (i) autonomy and the appropriate legal framework for water and
sewerage operating organizations in the future; (ii} the fragmentation of water and operating
organizations into uneconomic units; (iii) lack of emphasis on maintenance of existing facilities;
(iv) investment planning that does not always emphasize the least cost solution; (v) training and
technology transfer; (vi) privatization; and (vii) the role of the national government. The
Association with the cooperation of MOC would carry out a study in parallel with the Project
that would address these issues by setting sector goals, reconunending a regulatory framework,
recommending policy changes, proposing a development strategy and proposing an action plan
for carrying out the strategy. A major emphasis of the study would-be on tariff policy and how
to obtain full cost recovery for the sector. Experience gained in the implementation of the
Durres Project would provide valuable input to the study, particularly in the area of tariff policy.
2.15  The study would be caried out independently from Project by consultants under
Association and MOC supervision. Financing would be from the Bank's Consultant Trust Fund.
The proposed completion date for the study is June 30, 1995.
BANK/IDA WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR EXPERIENCE
2.16 The proposed Credit would be the Association's first operation in the sector in Albania.
Therefore, the design of the Project had to rely on Bank/Association general experience in the
sector which has been significant.2 As of December 31, 1993, Bank/IDA lending to the water
supply and sewerage sector totaled $11 billion for 277 projects. Most of these projects were
successful in meeting their physical objectives and in achieving least-cost solutions; however,
success in achieving strong and financial viable institutions and poverty relief, key
Bank/Association sector objectives, has been limited. The few cases where physical objectives
were not met, it was mostly due to cost overruns which required some project components to
be dropped. Cost overruns were rarely the result of poor cost estimating but more often the
result of inflation and delays in construction. Where components were dropped, it was usually
the sanitation and pollution control components.
2.17 Achieving institutional strength and fmancial viability through project design has been
difficult. In general, success has been achieved only in projects which had the full commitment
of the borrower and substantial resources for training and technical assistance. Reasons for
failure have been: (i) lack of clear sector policies; (ii) lack of management and financial
autonomy at the utility level; (iii) high staff turnover; and (iv) staff inexperience.
2.18 One important indicator of a water utility's institutional strengti and its fiancial viability
is the amount of its unaccounted-for water and whether or not it is decreasing. Most Bank/IDA
borrowers have had excessive amounts of unaccounted-for water and all projects where it has
been determined to be excessive have included components to reduce it. However, only those
projects where it was the main component of the project and was pursued vigorously were the
21    Water Supply and Sanitation Projects, The Bank's Experience-1967-1989, WB Report No. 10789,
Operations Evaluation Department, 1992



- 8
programs successful, an important lesson taken into account in the design of the proposed
project.
2.19 Few Bank/IDA projects are able to demonstrate success in meeting the needs of the poor.
This does not necessarily mean that they are not successful. The main problem has been tie 
lack of detailed data on the numbers of poor households and their location, and when success
is achieved, there is not always a means of measuring it.
ASSOCIATION GOALS FOR THE SECroR
2.20 The Association's goals in the sector are to: (i) help GOA meet the basic needs of the
population for safe and reliable water supply and sanitation services; (ii) help GOA achieve least-
cost solutions to meet the needs of the sector; and (iii) eliminate the constraints to development
described above (para 2.13). To achieve its goals, the Association will perform sector work and
fund projects that demonstrate low cost so!utions. In addition, the Association will promote the
following concepts: (i) full cost recovery for water and sewerage services; (ii) the user pays
principal; (iii) autonomy for water and sewerage works organization in their management and
finances; and (iv) the introduction of accounting methods that reflect the true cost of service.
The Association would also attempt to attract to the sector more foreign technical and financial
assistance from bilateral donors.
Im. EXISTING WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
AND ADEQUACY OF SERVICE IN THE PROJECT AREA
THE PROJECr AREA
3.1   The Project comprises improvements only to the Durres District water supply system,
the Durres City sewerage system and the Shijak sewerage system which are all in the Durres
District. However, because the Kavaja District water system to the south receives at present 80
percent of its water through a connection to the Durres District system, it has been considered
a part of the project area for the calculation of water demand and planning for the development
of new sources of supply. The combined area of the two districts is 848 km2. The Durres
District is the larger of the two districts with an area of 502 km2. The project area also includes
14 Km2 of the Tirana District.
3.2   Until the end of 1991, the Kavaja District was a part of the Durres District. In 1991,
they were separated into two districts, mainly because of the growing population and political
pressure from the leaders in the Kavaja area who believed that the City of Durnes was taking
more than its fair share of the resources from the Central Government and that they would fare
better as a separate district.
3.3   The two main population centers are Durres City, Albania's mai-n port and its second
largest city, and Kavaja City. Both are the administrative seats of their Districts. Durnes City
which includes the adjoining urban areas of Durres Beach, a resort area, and Shkozet, an
industrial area, has the largest concentrated urban population--93,000. Kavaja City has a



-9-
population of 30,900. There are two other population centers of importance in the Districts, the
town of Shijak with a population of 10,600 in the Durres District and the Town of Rrogozhina
with a population of 4,200 in the Kavaja District. These four urban centers account for 51
percent of the population. The remaining 49 percent is classified as rural and lives in 84 viliages
with populations ranging from 100 to 2,000. A small part of the ural population, 13 percent
of the total, is scattered.
3.4   Most of the economic activity in the Durres District is associated with the port, the
industries located in Shkozet and local tourism  in Durres Beach; however, agriculture is
important to the economy also. The economy in Kavaja is mostly agiculture based.
POPULATION AN POPULATION SERVED
3.5   The current population (year-end 1992) of the Durres District is 189,800. The current
population of the Kavaja District is 80,400. The Durres and Kavaja water supply systems
currently serve 77% of the population of the two districts- and 0.5% of the population of the
Tirana District. Twelve independent village systems serve 5% of the population. The remaining
18% obtain their water from dug wells. The average annual growth rates experienced between
1989 and 1992 were 2.4 percent for the Durres District and 1.9 percent for the Kavaja District.
The projections of the total population and the populations in both districts that would require
service from the two systems in the future are shown in Table 3.1.
TABLE 3.1: PROJECTED PERMANENT POPULATiON FOR THE DuRRES AND
KAVAJA DISTRICTS AND PERCENT POPULATION TO BE SERVED a/
Year
1992       1995       2000       2005        2010
Combined     Toal           272,20     297,200    358,600     423,500    474,000
Percent served  77          78         81         82          83
Durres Disict  Total        189,800    209,800    262,300     312,900     351,400
Percent served  91          92         93         94          94
Kavaja District Total       80,400      85,400     95,100     108,300     120,200
Percentserved   45          46         47         48          50
Preza (irana   Total         2,00       2,100      2,200       2,300      2,400
District)    Percent served   95         95         95          95         95
at    Percent served does not include 14,500 persons with piped water systems served by independent
village systems.
EXISTING DURRES D      ricT WATER SUPPLY SYSIM
3.6   The tIurres District water supply system is characterized by an extensive transmission
system that connects isolated sources of supply to independent distribution networks. The two
largest distribution networks are the Durres City network (which includes Durres Beach and
Shkozet) and the Shijak network.



- 10-
3.7   Water Supply and Transmission. The Durres system has three sources of supply--two
utilize ground water (the Fushe Kuqe and Fushe Kruja aquifers) and one utilizes surface water
(the Ergen River). The production capacity of these three sources under current conditions is
shown Table 3.2.
TABLE 3.2: EXISTING WATER SUPPLY CAPACITY
Capacity, I/sec
Source                            Maximum        Dependable
Fushe Kuqe Well Field                800           720
Fushe Kruja Well Field               150           140
Ergen River Water Treatment Plant    25              0
Total                             975            860
3.8   Of these sources, the most important is the Fushe Kuqe well field which represents 85%
of the system's production capacity. The quality of water from this source is good, requiring
only chlorination. The facilities at Fushe Kuqe currently only utilize 50% of the aquifer's safe
yield capacity. Developing the unused yield of this aquifer is the least-cost alternative for
providing additional production capacity in the future.
3.9   Fushe Kuqe well field supplies 720-800 I/sec to Durres, Durres Beach, Shkozet and eight
villages with onward bulk sales to Kavaja of 65 I/sec. This water is pumped to Kurate in a steel
main (mostly of 700 mm nominal diameter). From there it gravitates to a reservoir at Arapaji
where it is distributed, again by gravity, in a 500 mm steel main to Kavaja and to distribution
reservoirs in Durres City and Durres Beach (see Map). The fin  stages of the gravity system
are too low to serve the whole of Durres, so some water is pumped to consumers at higher
elevations. The length of pipe in the Fushe Kuqe transmission system is 40.5 km. The
condition of the transmission system is good and transmission losses are low.
3.10  The Fushe-Kruja well field supplies 140-150 l/sec to Shijak and to some surrounding
villages. Water is pumped via a 500 mm diameter steel main to Vora, and from Vora to Shijak
via part of a former transmission main linking Durres to the Tirana water system. The length
of pipe in the Fushe Kruja transmission system is 22.6 km.
3.11  The Ergen River filter plant delivers some 25 I/sec to Pjeslikez and Durres. Pjeslikez
is a small town of about 2,000 population. This plant was constructed in the mid-thirties, and
while well maintained by a dedicated operator, it is out of operation 50% of the time because
of low river flows or levels of raw water turbidity beyond the capability of the plant to treat.
During the outages, Pjeslikez is supplied from the Fushe Kruja system. The transmission system
has 2.7 km of 250 mm steel pipe.
3.12 Distribution. There are 27 separate distribution networks connected to the transmission
system. The largest is the network serving Durres, Durres Beach and Shkozet. The next largest



- 11 -
is the Shijak network. The rest are small town and village systems. The Durres, Durres Beach
and Shkozet network is supplied from three distribution reservoirs that are filled from the
transmission system. The other networks are directly connected to a transmission main with no
or minimal storage. The Durres, Durres Beach and Shkozet network design is a good one for
water short situations like the one that exists in the Durres system because it allows the available
water to be stored and released from the reservoirs in a sufficient quantity to pressurize the
entire system for short periods. The alternative design is to have the distribution network
connected directly to the transmission main with the distribution reservoir downstream of the
demand. A distribution reservoir connected to the system- in this manner is, said to. "float" on
the system. When the system demand is low, the excess water fills the reservoir. When the
demand is high, it is met with stored water and water from the transmission main. The
disadvantage of this system in a water short situation is that the reservoir never fills and
therefore is useless. As a result the parts of the network close to the transmission mains have
water all the time and the distant and elevated parts have no water.
3.13 The pipes making up the distribution networks are steel and cast iron ranging in
diameters from 80 mm to 400 mms. The cast-iron pipes date from the 1930s. The steel pipes
have all been laid since 1950. The total length of distribution pipe work is about 165 km.
Valves are adequately placed to isolate parts of the system for repairs; however, most are
inoperable. The distribution networks are not properly sized for fire protection. There are only
a few fire hydrant- located only in the commercial areas of Durres. Many of the pipes are
known to be weakened from corrosion. The feasibility study water audit estimated that leakage
with the network under full pressure would be 70% of production. However, under the current
mode of intennittent operation, network leakage is probably closer to 50% of the production.
Reduction of leakage is the main focus of the investment component of the Project.
3.14 Distribution Storage. Distribution storage is provided in five reservoirs: the three
serving Durres City, Durres Beach and Shkozet mentioned above, one serving Shijak and a
reservoir at Arapaji which mainly serves a transmission function). Total system storage is
14,200 m3. At only 17% of daily production capacity, this is a low figure. To provide for
emergency requirements in addition to peak demands, distribution storage should be equal to
25 % of the daily demand. The existing reservoirs are in poor condition and leak. Under the
Project, additional storage would be provided and the leaks in the existing reservoirs would be
repaired (para 5.8).
ExISrlNG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE SYSrEMS
3.15 Only Durres City, Durres Beach and Shijak have formal sewerage collections systems
with organizations to maintain them. The Durres City and Shijak systems are about 50 years
old. They are combined systems which collect rain water as well as sanitary sewage. The
Durres Beach system is newer with separate rain water and sanitary systems. The systems are
comprised of concrete pipes varying in size between 200 mm and 1500 mm in diameter, the
larger diameter pipes being of reinforced concrete construction. The systems are frequently
surcharged for lack of adequate capacity or clogging and there are insufficient manholes to
access the systems for maintenance purposes. Gradients vary typically between 1/500 and 1/200



- 12 -
which are two mild for good self-cleaning. The total length of sewers in the three systems is
27.0 km. The sewered area is 518 hectares.
3.16 Some of the larger villages with apartment buildings have informal systems which have
been constructed by the local residents in an attempt to solve their sewerage and drainage
disposal problems. Most discharge to the nearest creek or open drainage ditch. Villages with
single family units have either septic tanks, cesspools or latrines.
3.17 About 80 percent of the existing sewers in Durres City gravitate inland to a pumping
station that discharges to a surface drainagle canal which in turn discharges to the sea. The other
20% gravitate towards a pumping station near the port area that pumps the sewerage by force
main to the inland system. The port pumping station no longer functions, so all sewerage
reaching it is discharged to the sea through the pumping station's overflow. There are no
treatment facilities.
3.18 The Durres Beach sewerage system has five pumping stations in series. The last
pumping station discharges to the same drainage channel that receives the Durres City sewage.
The electrical installations in these pumping stations are unreliable and would be replaced under
the Project (para 5.11).
3.19 The Shijak sewerage system is an all gravity system combined system which discharges
to the Erzeni River. The system is undersized for the average wet weather flow and needs to
be replaced. A new collector would be installed under the Project (para 5.12).
PLUMBING WITHIN PUBLIC AN) PRNATE BUILDINGS
3.20 The condition of water pipes within public and private buildings is poor, and the
condition of service connections and meters is no better. The total number of accounts is about
32,000. The number of connections are less because many apartment buildings are served from
a single connection. There are 3,745 installed meters of which only 1,100 function. Because
billing is based on the number of persons served by an account, there is no incentive for
customers to prevent leaks or to minimize consumption. A water conservation program included
in the Project will address this issue (para 5.10).
3.21 Plumbing for waste water in most cases appears adequate and would not be a concern
under the Project.
DOCUMENTATION
3.22 Documentation on the water system is satisfactory and a system is in place for continuous
updating as changes to the system occur as a result of a mapping effort undertaken as a part of
the feasibility study. However, sewer system documentation is incomplete and not up to date.
System maps are available only in one copy and these are not kept in a secure place. Original
maps are maintained by the Institute for Study and Design of Water and Sewerage Works, but
even here the maps are not adequately indexed or available for ready reference. An institutional



- 13 -
strengthening component included in the Project would implement record keeping mapping
procedures for the two sewerage works operating in the project area (para 5.13).
ADEQUACY OF SERVICE AND REQUREENWI  FOR 1MWROVEMENT
3.23 Both water supply and sewerage service in the Durres District are poor, mainly as a
result of inadequate system maintenance and under investnent.
3.24 Water Supply. The Durres District Water supply system is totally inadequate. Water is
available for most customers in the early morning for 2 hours and for 1-1/2 hours in -the
afternoon. Production capacity would be sufficient if leakage and wastage were not excessive.
Distribution pipes are adequately sized except in a few isolated cases. Meters are installed on
most connections but 75 % are broken and those that work are not read. Some segments of the
distribution network are badly corroded and should be replaced rather than patched; however,
most of the leakage is occurring in service connmections and customer plumbing. Under the
Project, the hours of service would be extended through demand management measures,
rehabilitation of the distribution network and a small increase in production capacity by well
pump replacement at the Fushe Kruja well field (paras 5.7, 5.10 and 5.5).
3.25 Sewverage. Sewerage systems in the project area are also in poor condition. Pumping
equipment is old, and, as a result, subject to frequent failure. Cleaning and maintenance of the
collection systems is hampered by lack of proper equipment and not all the sewers are properly
sloped. Coverage is low compared to water and the systems need to be extended. Systems in
the villages need to be maintained and extended. At present, there is no organization responsible
for sanitation in the Villages. Also, the systems pose a threat to the environment and public
health by discharging untreated sewage. Clearly basic treatment should be provided such as
screening and grit removal as a first step, and operating and maintenance personnel must be
provided with the proper equipment for maintaining the collection systems. Also, unreliable
pumping station equipment should be replaced. The sewerage component in the Project will
address the institutional problems, make the most critical repairs and provide equipment for
maintenance. The problems that are not solved and the requirements for treatment would be
addressed in a master sewerage plan study to be carried out as a part of the Project (para 5.15).
3.26 Industrial Waste Treatment. DDWW supplies water to 89 industrial customers. Most
use the water for cooling, cleaning and sanitation. At several food processing plants, a chemical
factory and a pesticide factory water supplied by DDWW is used for processing. Most of the
factories discharge directly to the nearest water course without any treatment. Exceptions are
the Durres Port and the regional hospital which are connected to the Durres sewerage system.
None of the factories in the service area treat their wastes. The current situation does not pose
an inmediate threat (para 5.31). Actions that should be taken in the future to control industrial
waste water would be addressed by the master sewerage plan study.
FUTURE WATER DEMAND
3.27 The future demand for water in the Dunes system is highly dependent first and foremost
by how well the system is managed in the futnre, second on the growth of the local economy,



- 14 -
and third on the District's policy towards extending service to the rural areas. A demand
projection prepared by the feasibility study consultants using a traditional approach based on past
trends and western standards of water service, indicates that additional capacity will not be
required before 1997 if leakage and wastage could be restricted to 50% (Annex 1). This
projection highlights the urgent need -to limit wastage in the system as quickly as possible and
the potential for delaying a major investment in system expansion.
3.28 The existing per capita production capacity of 376 l/cd (Table 3.3) is substantial for the
consumer mix existing in the DDWW service area. Under the Project, the general approach is
to make maximum use of this existing capacity through- rehabilitation and demand management
rather than to increase production to meet demand. However, demand will be carefully
monitored so that the best time to introduce an expansion of capacity in the future can be
deternined.
TABLE 3.3: Per capita Production Capacity
1993 Population in service area     273,000
1993 Population served:
Durres District               170,800
Tirana District                 1,900
Kavaja District                36.200
Total                   208,900
Production capacity:
Existing                      860 1/sec
Increase under Project         50 I/sec a/
Total                   910 I/sec
Per capita production capacity      376 I/cd b/
a/    Potential capacity increase at Fushe Kruja well field with
replacement of pumps included in the Project.
b/    Kavaja District is currently restricted to 65 I/sec (155 I/cd
for each person served). If this restriction is maintained,
then the per capita production capacity for the population
served in the Durres and Tirana Districts is 423 I/cd.
WATER SALES PROJECTIONS
3.29 All water sales with the exception of some industries, are based on estimates of
consumption. For domestic customers, the estimates are based on the number of persons in the
household and the number of hours of service according to the following categories:



15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
- 1S -
6 to 24 hours service    150 I/day/resident
2 to 6 hours service     75 I/day/resident
0 to 2 hours service     50 1/day/resident
Industrial- and commercial customers without meters are billed on estimated consumption based
on the size of their connection and the hours of operation. A new national law required all
industrial, commercial and institutional customers to install meters by mid-1994. As December
31, 1993, compliance was about 50%. The metering of domestic customers is expected to be
gradual with only 30% metered by the end of the project. Industrial, commercial and
institutional sales are expected to decrease in 1994 and 1995 as a result of metering. Domestic
sales to unmetered customers are expected to increase as their quality of service improves and
they are reclassified to a higher use category. Domestic customers with meters are expected to
reduce their water use in order to minimize their water bill. The projection assumes that
metered customers will use only 80 I/day/resident. Water sales projections are presented
graphically in Figure 3.1 and in table form in Annex Table 15A. 1.



- 16 -
IV. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS IN THE PROJECT AREA
GENERAL
4.1   There are three institutions responsible for the provision of water and sewerage services
in the Project area, the Durres District Water Works (DDWW), the Durres City Sewerage
Works (D)CSW) and the Shijak Sewerage Works (SSW). DDWW would implement the Project.
Under the Project the other two would- be combined and restructured to form a- new sewerage
works, the Durres District Sewerage Works (DDSW) with responsibility for sanitation in the
villages as well as te urban areas of Durres City, Durres Beach and Shijak Town._ The three
institutions and their existing deficiencies are describe in this section. Technical assistance
would be included in the Project to assist the three institutions in carrying out the Action Plans
for the combining and restructuring and institutional strengthening.
THE DURRES Drsucr WATER WORKS (DDWW)
4.2   DDWW  is responsible for groundwater extraction, transmission and distribution of
potable water to the urban centers of Durres, Durres Beach, Shkozet and Shijak, plus 27 villages
in the Durres District and part of the Tirana District. DDWW is also the main supplier of bulk
water for the Kavaja District Water Works.
4.3  In April 1991, DDWW was separated from the local electricity enterprise and became
a semi-autonomous operating agency reporting directly to the Division of Water Supply and
Sewerage Services within the Public Services Department in MOC. At present, there is no
legislation which defines the specific sector role of DDWW. In addition, DDWW has no formal
links with the local authorities of Durres District, Durres Municipality and Shijak Municipality;
but there is 'ad hoc' cooperation with local departments responsible for planning, sewerage and
public health.
4.4   As a legal entity, DDWW comes under the State Enterprise Law. Article 19 of the Law
provides that the members of the board of directors and the managing director of a state
enterprise be nominated for a period of four years by either a minister, a head of a central
institution or by a responsible agency of local government. In the case of DDWW, it is the
Minister of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment. At present, DDWW's top
management comprises its Board of Directors.
4.5   Orgamzation and &afflng. DDWW is managed on a day-today basis by a Director who
is a qualified engineer. He is supported by two senior managers: a Chief Engineer in charge
of the Technical Department and a Chief Accountant in charge of the Financial Department.
The general organization chart of DDWW is illustrated in Annex 2. DDWW employs a total
of 315 people. The Technical Deparment has three divisions and 288 staff, most of whom are
employed in operations and maintenance functions which are centered in Durres itself and
Shijak. The financial Department employs 26 people, most of whom are employed as billing
clerks. Details of DDWW's staff by salary, educational, qualifications, length of service and
gender are in Annex 3.



- 17 -
4.6   The numbar of employees per thousand accounts and per thousand population served is
high by Western Europe and Nordt American standards. However, personnel costs compared
to other operating costs are low (see Table 4.1). There are severa reasons for the high number
of employees. These are: (a) the areal extent of the system--it stretches of an area 40 kans by
20 kn,s and it would be more costly to transport employees between locations than to have staff
living in the area even though they may not be ftlly utilized; (b) low salary cost as compared
the cost of automation; (c) pressure on GOA to provide employment; and (d) low worker
efficiency.
TABLE 4.1: DURRES DISTRICT WATER WORKS PRODUCTIVITY
Standard for North America and West
Indicator              DDWW                     Europe
Employees Per Thousand            7.8                      3.0
Connections
Employees Per Thousand Populadon  1.8                      0.8
Personnel Cost as a % of Total    10                     25 to 50
Costs
4.7   Operations and Maintenance. Operations and maintenance is done on an 'ad hoc' basis,
with staff responding to main breaks and other emergencies depending on the availability of
repair materials, spare parts, and transport. The severe shortage of all these inputs has resulted
in a continuing decline in the level of maintenance, the poor condition of many of the water
supply assets and low levels of service. There is no operations manual and no planned
maintenance.
4.8 The operations and maintenance divisions are divided into brigades which cover specified
zones in Durres, Shijak and the villages. The Brigade Leaders exercise general control and
leadership with the support of Zone Chiefs who act as foremen for the day-to day work. The
Zone Chief, with the approval of the Brigade Leader, is responsible for withdrawing the
necessary materials and supplies from the stores on a daily basis. In the current economic
situation, systematic control of operations and maintenance functions is difficult because of the
severe shortage of materials and transport. Proposed improvements include: reorganization of
the work brigades; establishing more formal control and supervision mechanisms; effective
planning and monitoring procedures; more suitable stores and inventory control; and the
preparation of an operations manual to formalize the improvements.
4.9   Billing and Collecting.  Water bills are issued monthly and distributed by hand.
Domestic connections serve approximately 22,000 households in Durres City, 2,000 households
in Shijak Town and 8,000 households in the Villages. Properties are served by communal
connecdons to residential buildings (housing 10 or more families) in the urban areas and
individual connections in the Villages. DDWW reported a total of 3,745 domestic water meters
at the end of 1992 of which more than 70% were non-functioning and the remainder inaccurate
or not used.



- 18-
4.10  Domestic bills can be paid at three kiosks in Dunes itself, one in Shijak and to DDWW's
agents in the villages. Water bills for non-domestic connections (mainly industries and large
commercial establishments) are based on metered consumption (less than 25%o of nom-dotnestic
meters are actually working) or computations based on hours of operation and pipe size, It
appears that many of the bills are the subject of negotiation in order to reduce dhe fimancial
burden on individual enterprises, many of which are operating at -low levels of capacity
utilization because of the current economic climate. Bills are due within 30 days. DDWW
operates a policy of issuing a wari  for non-payment after two months and,disconnection after
five months. In practice, most domestic consumers pay regularly and DDWW is reluctant to
disconnect industrial enterprises which are experiencing financial difficulties. The collection rate
is currently only 65% of billings.
4.11 Financial Accounting and Management. At present, DDWW levies water charges which
cover all of its recorded operating costs. However, tariffs will have to be increased significantly
in the future to cover the local cownibution of the Project.
4.12 The financial department is performing reasonably well with the limited resources at its
disposal. However, significant changes and improvements will be required if the Department is
to meet the challenges of the future. The required changes include:
(a)   Adoption of a conventional commercial accounting system. A new accountancy
Law (based on the French system), drafted by the Ministry of Finance and
Economy, received parliamentary approval in January 1993. The law is awaiting
the fimal signature of the President of Albania before it has to be implemented by
all public private sector enterprises. A copy of the n.w law in English is in the
project file. A description of current accounting procedures in Albania and the
changes that will result from the new law are in Annex 4.
(b)   Introduction of a computer-based billing and financial accounting system.
(c)   Appropriate training for the staff in the financial department.
4.13 Management Information System. DDWW has no regular management information
system (MIS) which can provide senior staff with realistic measures of operational and financial
performance. A MIS will be essential if the managers of a new orginization structure are to
provide an improved water supply service. A suitable MIS would be installed under the Project.
4.14 Training. Present staff performance relies on experience, some on the job training, basic
educational qualifications and individual motivation. These attributes, which will provide the
building blocks for the future, are under severe strain in the current economic situation.
DDWW has no staff training program; and there is no coordinated trainng for the water supply
and sewerage sector in Albania.



- 19 -
DURIES CITY SEWERAGE WoRs (DCSW)
4.15 The Durres City Govenmnent is responsible for city's sewerage and drainage collectior,
system. The Govermnent is comprised of six major departments: Public Services; Education;
Public Health; Urban Planning; Finance; and Sport and Culture.  The Public Services
Departnent has three divisions dealing with: public services (roads, sewerage, drainage, street
cleaning and public parks); housing and comnnunications. The Public Services Departnent has
a management team of seven, including: the Director; two engineers; two accountants; a
supplies manager; and a secretary. The staff in the Division totals 528 of whom 127 are
employed in the maintenance of the City's network of -roads, sewers and drains; and 401 who
are employed in street cleaning and park maintenance. A total of 88 people are directly involved
with the sewerage and drainage system, with 56 concerned with maintenance and 32 with the
operation of the sewage pumping stations. In the current economic situation, the work force
only copes with very basic maintenance and emergency situations. This is due to the severe
shortage of resources, the poor condition of most of the sewerage and drainage network and
inadequate organization. About 75% of the labor force have worked for the city for more than
10 years, but most have only received basic on-the-job training.
4.16 The sewerage system is not self-financing (i.e. there are no sewerage charges). At
present the city has to rely on a direct transfer of funds from MOC to pay the wages of the
sewerage and drainage workers. This situation has tended to blur the lines of responsibility and
accountability, with the Central Government effectively paying wages to keep people in
employment.
4.17 There is an evident need to reassess the organization and financing of sewerage services
in Durres in order to develop a structure which is capable of providing an effective and
sustainable service.
SHUAK SEWERAGE WORKS (SSW)
4.18 Shijak Town Government is responsible for the town's sewerage and drainage system.
The city's organization structure is very similar to that of Durres city. The Public Services
Department is responsible for the maintenance of roads, sewers, drains, street cleaning, public
parks and cemeteries. The Department has a Director, one accountant and one technician who
are responsible for all the public service operations. The sewerage works itself has only six
maintenance workers. The Department has no planned maintenance schedules and very limited
physical and financial resources with which to carry out effective maintenance. There are no
sewerage charges and no effective lines of accountability for the peormance of the sewerage
system. Similar to the situation in Durres City, these issues will be addressed under the Project.
MOC pays the wages for staff of the Public Services Department because Shijak Town does not
have adequate financial resources.
AcIIoN PLANS FOR INSTMrOTIONAL STRENGTHENING
4.19 During negotiations DDWW and GOA agreed on two Action Plans for institutional
restructring and strengthening. One Action Plan is for DDWW (Annex 5) and the other is for



- 20 -
DCSW and SSW (Annex 6). The first action to be taken by DCSW and SSW under their Action
Plan would be to combine their operations under a single management to form the Durres
District Sewerage Works (DDSW), a new state enterprise that would have responsibility for all
sewerage service in the District. DDWW's progress toward implementing their Action Plan
would be included their semi-annual report to the Association (para 7.12). The MOC would
cause the DDSW to submit a separate report on the implementation of their Action Plan. A
technical assistance component to support the Actions Plans is included in the Project (para
5.13). The Action Plans are considered important to ensure that the benefits of the Project will
be sustainable (Para 5.33).
V. THE PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
5.1   The Project would consist of a minimum investment package for the rehabilitation of the
existing water supply and sewerage systems and for institutional strengthening assistance. As
a result of the Project, water shortages under average day conditions would be eliminated.
However, some consumers would experience intermittent service during peak demand days.
Given the high cost, no reserve capacity would be provided for growth. To meet maximum day
requirements now and to provide reserve capacity for future growth would require an additional
investment of $17 million and increase DDWW operating costs by 50% which is not financially
feasible under existing economic conditions in the project area. Therefore, this investment has
been included in the next phase of improvements. Any large industrial, housing or tourism
developments with substantial water supply requirements prior to the completion of the next
phase improvements would have to provide for their own needs or provide finance to DDWW
so it could implement its next phased improvement program earlier than would ordinarily be
feasible.
PROJEC OBJECTIVES
5.2   The Project's main objectives would be to eliminate water shortages and associated health
risks to the existing population in the project area and to establish a strong local institutional
framework for the provision of water supply and sewerage services so that the improvements
will be sustainable.
PROJECr DESCRPION
5.3   The proposed Project is divided into six Parts. Part A comprises improvements to the
Durres District water supply and transmission system. The main components are pumping
station and well field rehabilitation: Part B comprises rehabilitation of the distribution networks
in Durres City, Durres Beach, Shkozet and Shijak; Part C comprises implementation of a water
loss reduction and demand management program; Part D comprises critical repairs to the
sewerage collection systems in Durres City, Durres Beach and Shijak; and Parts E and F address
the institutional strengthening needs of DDWW and the proposed DDSW respectively. Parts A,
B, C and E, the water supply components, account for 94% percent of the project cost. Parts



- 21 -
D and F, the sewerage components, account for only 6%. The sewerage component, while
small, is necessary to mitigate the effect of the increased water consumption and resultant
sewerage discharges that will result from the water supply component. The investment
components of the Project and their relationship to each other are shown on Map No. IBRL
25146 in the Map Section in the back of the report. All the project components are described
in detail below. A description of the Project fbr Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement is in
Annex 7.
5.4   WeU Field Pumping Station Rehabilitation (Part A.1 of the Project). Large high lift
pumping stations at the Fushe Kuqe and Fushe Kruja well fields pump water from central well
water collection tanks to the areas of demand. The delivery of water to the system depends on
the continuous operation of these two pumping stations. Under the Project, the reliability of
these stations would be increased with the replacement of the electrical transformers, switch gear
and chlorination equipment. In addition, at the Fushe Kuqe pumping station, piping would be
replaced and two new pump sets would be installed. Without the proposed works, either of
these stations could fail and remain out of service for months.
5.5   Fushe Kruja Well Field PunW Replacement (Part A.2 of the Project). The existing
horizontal centrifugal pumps at the Fushe Kruja well field limit the drawdown and thus the
amount of water that can be pumped from the aquifer. Under this component, the existing well
pumps would be replaced with higher capacity submersible pumps that would make it possible
to pump the capacity of the existing transmission main, 200 I/sec. The existing pumping
capacity is 120-150 1/sec.
5.6   Booster Pumping Station Rehabilitation (Part A.4 of the Project). The service area of
the Durres District water distribution systems have five small areas that require booster
pumping. The booster pumping stations serving these areas all require new electrical
installations in order to improve reliability and increase efficiency. Some require replacement
of valves, piping and pumps. Under this component, all five stations would be rehabilitated.
5.7   Distribution Network Rehabilitation (Part B.1 of the Project). The component for the
repair and rehabilitation of the Durres District water distribution systems would be the main
focus of the project investments. It is expected to resul in the greatest reduction in lost water.
The work would comprise leak repair, pipe replacement, service connection replacement and the
replacement of valves that are beyond repair.
5.8   Construction of a 2,000 m3 Addition to Reservoir No. 2 (Part B.3 of the Project). The
existig distribution storage capacity is insufficient for supplying the peak demands of the system
under normal circumstances (i.e, a continuous 24 hour supply). Additional storage will also
assist DDWW to more equitably distribute the available water under the current situation of
water shortage. The additional storage would be provided at the site of existing Reservoir No.
2.
5.9   Master Metering (Part C. I of the Project). None of the three sources have master meters
to accurately measure water production nor are there any meters in the system for control and
monitoring of system performance. Under this component, master meters would be installed at



- 22 -
each of the three water sources, a. the discharges of each distribution reservoir, at each
connection to the Fuche Kuqe and Fuche Kruja transmission mains and at key points in the
distribution network in Durres and Durres Beach.
5.10   Water Demand Management Program (Part C. 2 of the Project). A significant amount
of water loss is occurring from leaks in customer plumbing systems and from indiscriminate
water use by customers, mainly as a result of the current flat rate billing system. A demand
management program included as a subcomponent in the institutional strengthening Action Plan
for DDWW (para 5.13) would address this problem. The main subcomponent would comprise
a program to change from flat rate billing to metered consumption billing and the installation
of about 20,000 new meters. The program would start with the 1,100 customers who already
have operating meters installed and be extended gradually to all customers as the new meters are
installed. A law passed in June 1993 required all industrial, commercial and institutional
consumers to install meters at their own expense by August 31, 1993. Compliance as of the date
of this report was about 50%. DDWW will pursue strict enforcement of this law to ensure
100% metering of all industrial, commercial and industrial consumers at an early date. Other
measures would be: (a) a customer education program in water conservation; and (b) the
inspection for tightness of customer plumbing systems by DDWW inspectors where only
building meters are possible.
5.11 Rehabilitation of Sewage Pumping Stations (Part D. I of the Project). There are eight
pumping stations in the Durres City and Durres Beach sewerage systems. All eight require new
electrical equipment and one requires new pumps. Under this component, all eight pumping
stations would be rehabilitated and placed in good operating condition.
5.12 Rehabilitation of the Durres and Shijak Sewerage and Drainage Collection Systems (Parts
D. 2 and D. 3 of the Project). The Project would include only the most urgent repairs to the
Durres City and Shijak Town sewerage collection systems. The first step would comprise the
cleaning of the systems by local sewerage works staff with cleaning and rodding equipment
purchased with the Credit. The remaining work in Durres would include the replacing of
damaged sewer sections and construction of a 1.5 km main collector to prevent sewerage
overflows into Durres harbor. In Shijak, the main sewer which is undersized for storm flows
(the system is a combined system) and in poor condition would be replaced.
5.13  Technical Assistance forInstitutional Restructuring and Strengthening (Parts E. I and F. I
of the Project). Technical assistance would be provided to DDWW and the new DDSW to assist
them in implementing their Action Plans for institutional strengthening (para 4.19). The
technical assistance for imnplementation of the Action Plans would be provided through a
twinning arrangement with a qualified water and sewerage works organization from Europe or
North America. Selection of the twinning partner would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The technical assistance would be in the following areas: accounting; billing and collecting;
financial management, information management; and maintenance management. The Action
Plans are in Annex 5 for DDWW and Annex 6 for DDSW. Terms of reference for the twinning
arrangement are in Annex 8. The total technical assistance requirement for this component is
60 man months.



- 23 -
5.14 Water Supply Master Plan Updating (Part E. 2 of the Project). At the end of the Project,
the water supply master plan prepared as part of the feasibility study would be reviewed and
updated based on the results and accomplishments of the Project by the Institute for the Study
and Design of Water and Sewerage Works. The twinning partner would provide guidance to
the Institute.
5.15 Durres District Sewerage Master Plan (Part F.2 of the Project). There is no master plan
for the provision of sewerage service in the District. Planning is required to deternine what
kind of service should be provided in the villages, plan for the upgrading and expansion of
sewerage systems in Durres City and Shijak and plan for the provision of treatment in the future.
The plan would be prepared by the Institute for the Study and Design of Water and Sewerage
Works. The twinning partner would provide guidance to the Institute.
5.16  Office Refurbishing and Equipping (Part E.3 of the Project). The administrative offices
of DDWW at the start of project preparation were inadequate in size and condition to carry out
normal administrative and management functions. At the urging of the Association, DDWW
obtain an existing building of adequate size for its administrative functions with adjacent property
that would be suitable for constructing maintenance and stores facilities in the future. The newly
acquired building has been remodeled, furnished and equipped with appropriate office equipment
to make it suitable for DDWW. The work was completed in November 1993 with partial
funding from a project preparation facility (PPF) advance.
5.17 Provision of Operation and Maintenance Equipment (Parts E. 4 and F. 3 of the Project).
DDWW, DCSW and SSW lack adequate maintenance equipment for carrying out their functions
in an efficient manner.  Under this component, priority equipment needed for proper
maintenance identified by the feasibility study be procured for use of DDWW and the new
DCSW in operating and maintaining the water and sewerage systems in the District. A list of
the equipment is in Annex 9.
5.18  Fushe Kuqe Well Field Expansion Design (Part E.5 of the Project). The master plan
prepared as part of the feasibility study includes the expansion of the Fushe Kuqe well field and
the construction of a new transmission main in the next construction phase. Field investigations,
final designs and bidding documents would be prepared so that construction could start
immediately on completion of this Project or earlier if financially feasible.
PROJECT COST
5.19 The cost of the Project, including an allowance for physical and price contingencies is
US$19.5 million. A project cost summary by component is in Table 5.1. The basis for the cost
estimates, the cost estimate in local currency and furiher breakdowns of costs are presented in
Annex 10. The main assumptions are as follows:
(a)   customs duties and taxes average 15 % of imported equipment and materials which
adds $1.2 million to the cost of the Project;



-24 -
TABLE 5. 1: SUMMARY OF PROJEcT COST ESTMATE 1I
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total      as % of
US$'000 -               Total
A. WATER SUPPY AND TRNSMISSON..
1.   Well Field Pump Satdon Rehabilitation       890       1,656     2,547         65
2.   F. Kruja Well Field Pump Replacement         61        164        224         73
3.   Booster Pump Station Rehabilitadon           58         83        141         59
Subtotal                                    l,O9r     1,903     2,912          65
B. WATER DImUBMU1oN
1.   Distribution Network Rehabilitation       3,347      4,850      8,197         59
5.   Reservoir No. 2 Addition                    136         64        200         32
Subtotal                                 .3,483      4,914      8.397         59
C. WATER LOSS REDUCIION
1.   Source and Distict Metering                  21         46         67         69
2.   Demand Management Action Program            158        520        678         77
Subtotal                                    179        566        745         76
D. SEWERAGE
1.   Dufes Pump Station Rehabilitation            49        113        163         71
2.  3Dunes Collection System RehabiAtaion         90         10        100         10
3.   Shijak Trunk Sewer                          279         31        310         10
Subtot                                      418        154        573         27
E. INSTrrUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (WATER SUPPLY)
1.   Management TA                                58        442        499         89
2.   Water Supply Master Plan Updating            40         10         50         20
3.   Office Reconstuction                         47          8         55         15
4.   O&M Equipment                               101        671        772         87
5.   Kuqe Well Field Expansion Design              -        400        400        100
Subtol                                      245      1,531      1,776         86
F. INSTIULTONAL STRENGTHENIG (SEWERAGE)
1.   Management TA                                35        278        313         89
2.   Sewerage Master Plan                         60         15         75         20
3.   O & M Equipment                              45        302        347         87
Subtotal                                    140        595       735          81
G. PROJECT PREPARATION AND SUPERVSON               171       1,602      1,773        90
Total Base Costs                          5,646     11,265     16,911         67
Physical Contingencies                           542        938      1,479         63
Price Contingencies                             482         647      1,128         57
Total Proec*t Costs                       6,669     12,849     19,519         66
R/     Includes $1.2 million in taxes



- 25 -
(b)   base costs are in January 1993 prices except for the cost of the feasibility study
and equipment and materials purchased for system testing and evaluation as part
of the feasibility study which are included at actual cost;
(c)   price contingencies are calculated assuming an annual intrnational inflation rate
of 3.1% and a project implementation period of six years; and
(d)   engineering and technical assistance costs include only the cost of consultants.3
1NANC_M fPlAN
5.20 During negotiations, GOA and DDWW agreed to the financing plan for the Project
shown in Table 5.2 and described below.
5.21 Association Lending Arrangements. The Association would lend US$11.6 million
equivalent to GOA at standard Association terms with 40 years maturity. The Association Credit
would be used to finance either alone or jointly with local counterpart funds, contracts procured
in accordance with Association procurement guidelines for the purchase of goods, works and
consultant services.
5.22 GOA would onlend $10.7 million of the proceeds of the Credit to DDWW to be used for
the water supply component, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association.
The subsidiary loan would be for a repayment term of 25 years with six years grace at 7%
interest and DDWW would assume the foreign exchange risk (see para 6.13 for the proposed
offset subsidy arrangement). Signing and effectiveness of the subsidiary loan agreement would
be a condition of Creflit effectiveness.
5.23 GOA would provide DDWW without obligation $0.9 million of the proceeds of the
Credit to be used for the sewerage component. These funds would be a grant to the DCSW and
the SSW or their successor, the DDSW.
5.24 GOA Foreign Credit/Grant. During negotiations, GOA agreed to provide $4.0 million
in foreign exchange to import pipes and equipment for use in the Project. They would provide
$3.6 million to DDWW for the water supply components of the Project through a loan
agreement with terms similar to the subsidiary loan agreement for the IDA Credit. The
remaining $0.4 million would be used by DDWW for the sewerage components of the Project
and would be a grant to the DCSW and the SSW or their successor, the DDSW.
5.25 METAP Grant. The $0.3 million METAP grant financing shown in Table 5.2 was
provided under METAP to finance in part project preparation.
If   'Me in-house costs of DDWW staff administering the Project are not included. Their cost is reflected in the
financial projections of the DDWW.



- 26 -
TABLE 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$'OOO)
Sources
G30A
Current  DDWW             Credit!  METAP   GOA
Cost    Cash    IDA   Grant af  Grant  Grant b/
A. WATER SUPPLY AND TRANSSSION
I.  Well Field Pump Station Rehabilitation       3.099      275     2,475       -      -      348
2.  F. Kruja Well Field Pump Replacement           279       21       225       -    .-         34
4.  Booster-Pump Sta'tion Rehabilitation'          178       14       145       -      -        19
Subtotal                                     3,556     310      2,845             -       401
B. WATER DISTRBUTION
1.  Urban Network Rehabilitation                 9,441    1,546     4,727    2,549    -       619
2.  Reservoir No. 2 Addition                       248       99       149        -     -        -
Subtotal                                     9,689    1,645     4,876    2,549    -       619
C. WATER Loss REDUCTION
1.  Source and District Metering                    80      20         30       22    -         9
2.  Demand Management Action Program               776       32       313      335    -        96
Subtotal                                       856      52        343      357    -       105
D. SEWERAGE
1.  Durres Pump Station Rehabilitation             193       -        155       -      -       39
2.  Durres Collection System Repair                122       -         73        -     -        49
3.  Shijak Trunk Sewer                             385       -        231       -      -       154
Subtotal                                        700                459       -      -      242
E. INSrlTUTIONAL STRENGTHENNG (WATER SUPPLY)
1.  Management TA                                  554       -        517       32    -         5
2.  Water Supply Malter Plan Updating               62       -         62           -            -
3.  Office Reconstruction                           60       30        30           -            -
4.  O&M Equipment (Water)                          900       -         83      700    -        117
5.  F. Kuqe Well Field Expansion Design            453       -        453        -               -
Subtotal                                     2,029      30      1.145      732    -       122
F. INSUITIONAL STRENGTHENING (SEWERAGE)
1. Management TA                                  352       -        336        14    -         2
2. Sewerage Master Plan                            90       -         90        -     -         -
3. 0 & M Equipment (Sewerage)                     403       -          -       350    -        53
Subtotal                                      845       -        426       364    -        55
G. PROJECT PREPARATiN AND SUPERVISION              1,843       -      1,506       -    337         -
Total                                       19,519    2,037    11,600    4,002   337    1,544
a!    Foreign credit/grant for importation of goods to be incorporated in the Project. Amounts allocated for Parts A,
B, C and E of the Project will be a loan to DDWW. Amounts allocated for Parts D and F will be a grant to
DCSW and SSW or their successor, DDSW.
bJ    Local Counterpart for sewerage component and equity contribution to DDWW for customs, duties and taxes.



- 27 -
5.26 GOA Local Grant. During negotiations, GOA agreed to reimburse DDWW for all
customs duties and taxes on imported equipment and material to be installed in the Project and
the counterpart funds required for the sewerage components of the Project. The reimbursement
for payments due on the water supply component equipment would be in the form of an equity
contribution and would be shown in the DDWW accounts as such. The reimbursement for the
payments due on the sewerage component would be passed on as a grant.
5.27 DDWW Cash. Local counterpart funds for the water supply component would be provided
by DDWW's internal cash generation. The budgeted amount is reasonable in terms of the
number of customers and the proposed tariffs to be charged during project implenmentation-
(Annex Table 15 A.2) which are affordable (para 8.5).
STATUS OF PREPARATION
5.28 The Project is being prepared by DDWW through a project implementation unit (PIU)
with the assistance of foreign consultants acceptable to the Association and three local
institutes.4 The consultants completed a feasibility study and submitted their report on the
results in July 1993. DDWW and MOC signed a contract in January 1994 with the same
consultants for final design and construction supervision.
5.29 Bidding documents for the network rehabilitation (Part B. 1 of the Project) with a contract
value of $9.5 million will be ready for bidding by March 1, 1994. Documentation for the
remaining parts of the Project will be ready for bidding by June 30, 1994.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT
5.30 The Project would have no long term negative impacts on the enviromnent. Water pipes
would be either ductile iron, steel or plastic. No asbestos cement pipe would be used.
Sewerage from the three sewerage systems is discharged without treatment to a surface drainage
canal which flows to the Adriatic Sea several kilometers north of Durres Beach so that the Beach
swinuming area is protected from pollution, partially by distance and partially by natural
treatnent in the canal. Whereas the Project would increase the volume of sewerage discharged,
the total solids and BOD loading would increase only slightly. Resources are sufficient to
address only a small part of the sewerage needs in the project area and the first priority and the
focus of the Project would be to undertake urgent repairs to the collection systems in order to
provide the greatest health protection to the population served. The next phase of investments
should concentrate on expanding the collection systems in developed areas with overloaded septic
systems and to providing a minimum level of treatment--screening and grit removal.
5.31 Whereas at present, no sewage treatment is provided by the municipalities and industries
in the District, there is no danger from hazardous wastes. There is a minor potential for
pollution of the Durres Beach swiinming area from the overflow of a non-functioning pumping
41  Institute for the Study and Design of Water and Sewerage Works, the Instilute for Hydraulic Research and
Modelling, and the Geological Insitute.



- 28 -
station in Durres City; however, this station would be made operational by the Project. Most
of the pollution loading comes from domestic sources even though 40 percent of the water use
is by industry and commercial establishments. Industrial water use is mostly for cooling, food
processing or sanitry purposes. There are only three factories served by DDWW water system
that have a potential for the production of hazardous pollutants. These are a plastic factory, a
chemical products factory and a pesticide factory. None of them discharge to any of the three
municipal systems and only the plastic factory is currendy operating (Annex 11).
5.32 The project environmental classification is B.  Therefore, a formal environmental
assessment was not made.
PRoJEr SusTAINABnry
5.33 Making the Project sustainable will require changes at both the local and national levels.
The Project would address the local changes with the Action Planis for institutional strengthening
(para 4.19) and the institutional strengthening components of the Project (para 5.13). The
Action Plans would combine the two existing sewerage agencies to form a new district sewerage
enterprise, DDSW, and restucture DDWW and DDSW following corporate models and with
technical assistance make both organizations operationally strong and managerially autonomous.
Changes in national tariff policy proposed during project preparation would contribute to
fmancial sustaimabiity by ensuring that DDWW recovers from tariffs its full operation and
mantenance costs and stars making contributions to its investments. During negotiations, the
GOA agreed to the most important change for financial sustainability, removal of the uniform
price cap on the price of water. The introduction of sewerage tariffs would be reviewed under
the proposed sector strategy study (para 2.14).
PROCuREmET
5.34 Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in Table 5.3. A list of
contracts for implementing the Project is in Annex 12.
5.35 Supply and Install. Two supply and erect contracts with an aggregate value of
US$13.3 million would be bid using ICB and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
Supply and Install Contracts. These contracts would be for network repairs and rehabilitation
and pumping station and well field rehabilitation. The bidding documents would be based on
detailed designs and specifications. It is expected that local entrepreneurs in joint ventures with
experienced and well capitalized foreign firms would qualify and win these contracts.
5.36 Wor*s. Four works contracts with an aggregate value of US$1.0 million and a maximum
value under US$500,000 would be bid using LCB and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents -
-Procurement of Works (Small Contracts). These contracts would be for installation of
equipment and material procured separately, distribution reservoir construction and sewer
construction. Newly formed local contracting companies backed with foreign capital are
expected to qualify and be competitive for these contracts.



- 29 -
Table 5.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCuREMENT ARRANGEmENTS
(US$'000)
Procurement Method
Project Element            ICB        LCB        Other   Total Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1  Repairs & Equipment Instalation  -         228         -          228
(136)                 (136)
1.2  S;uctures                        -                                24*  - -48
(149)                 (149)
1.3  Sewers                           -         385         -          385
(231)                 (231)
2. Goods
2.1 Installed Equipment              132        -                     132
(0)                             (0)
2.2 O & M Equipment                  858         180it    1.658
(0)                  (126)     (126)
3. Supply and Erect
3.1 Pump Station Rehabilitation    3,750        -          -        3,750
(3,000)                         (3.000)
3.2 Network Rehabilitadon          9,515        -          -        9,515
(4,355)                         (4,355)
4. Consulancies
4.1 Project Preparation              -          -        1,636 bl   1,636
(1,636)    (1,636)
4.2 Institutional Development        -          -        1,006 b/    1,006
(1.006)    (1,006)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Refinancing of PPF               -          -          961        961
(961)     (961)
Total Cost                     14,255      861       4,403      19,519
(7,355)    (516)      (3,729)   (11.600)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
a/ By international ($700,000) and local shopping ($100,000)
b/ Services procured in accordance with Association Guidelines: Use of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981)



-30 -
5.37 Goods. Two goods contracts for the supply of water meters and operating and
maintenance equipment with and aggregate value of US$1.0 million, would be bid using ICB
and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents -- Procurement of Goods. Purchases of goods not
available locally in packages less than US$100,000 with an aggregate value of US$0.8 million,
comprising operation and maintenance equipment, water meters and miscellaneous materials and
repair parts for minor repair work undertaken by water and sewerage works personnel would
be procured by international shopping (minimur three quotations from suppliers in three eligible
countries). Local shopping (mininum of three quotations from local suppliers) could be used
for the purchases of the same goods, if available locally, in packages less than US$10,000 with
an aggregate value of US$0.1 million...
5.38  Consulting Services.  Consulting services have been contracted for final design,
preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision with C. Lotti Associati, an Italian
consulting firm. C. Lotti's sub-contractors are SEBA, and Austrian firm specializing in water
loss reduction, and the Institute for the Study and Design of Water Supply, a local design
institute. The same team caried out the feasibility study. They were selected in accordance
with the Association's guidelines for consultant selection and they are satisfactory to the
Association. Technical assistance for institutional strengthening, Parts E. 1 and F. 1 of the
Project (para 5.13), would be procured under a twinning arrangement with a water utility in the
business of consulting. Selection of the water company twin would be in accordance with the
Association's guidelines. A contract for the final design of the next phase improvements, Part
E.5 of the Project (para 5.18), may be negotiated directly with C. Lotti or DDWW may decide
to hold a competition. The form of contract for all consulting contracts would be the
Association's Sample Form of Contract for Consultants' Services. The same form of contract
was used for the contract with C. Lotti. Consulting man-month requirements for the ProJect are
in Table 5.4.
TABLE 5.4: CoNSULTANT MAN-MONTH REQUIREMENTS
Foreign
Home
Requirement      Office        Field           Local            Total
Feasibility        9            28               90               127
Project Final Design    25      8               150               183
Supervision        3            30              960              993
Insttutional TA    5            55               -                60
Pbase II Design    24           6                60               90
Total        66           127            1.260             1,453
5.39 Preferences. The Project would be eligible for domestic preferences for both goods and
works. It is unlikely that either of the ICB bid contracts would be awarded to local
manufacturers; however, if a qualified local manufacturer should become established during
project implementation, he would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price



- 31 -
or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. Domestic contractors would be eligible for a
7.5% margin of preference for the three supply and erect contracts to be bid using ICB.
5.40 Management and Supervision of Procurement. A PIU (para 7.3) would be responsible
for all procurement under the Project. The Unit would be assisted by the foreign consultants
and/or the local institutes who -would prepar all documentation and evaluate all bids. Whereas
the staff of the PIU are inexperienced, the fact that MOC and DDWW are willing to contract
qualified foreign consultants to assist them should miinimnize the risk of misprocurement and
delays.
5.41  During project implementation, contracts for-tie procurement of works above a threshold
of $200,000 and goods above a threshold of $100,000 would be subject to the Association's
prior review. The prior review process would cover 100 percent of the ICB procurement, 70
percent of LCB procurement and none of the IS and LS procurement.
5.42 Reporting. Procurement infonnation would be collected and reported by the PIU for each
contract award. In addition, information on the status of procurement under the project wou)d
be reported semiannually as a part of DDWW's semiannual report on project implementation
and the state of its finances (para 7.12).
5.43 Local Procurement Procedures. A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet
been completed. However, during the appraisal mission, the procedures to be used for LCB
were discussed with authorities in MOC who stated that while the proposed procedures differed
from procurement procedures used in Albania in the past, there were no laws or regulations that
would prevent DDWW from adopting LCB procedures acceptable to the Association. In the
future, the Associatiopt will be assisting GOA in the development of a regulatory framework for
public procurement.
DISBuRsEMNTS
5.44 To allow for a gradual increase in tariffs and at the same time not slow down project
implementation because of a lack of internally generated funds, the Association would disburse
100 percent of civil works expenditures for the network rehabilitation component (Part B of the
Project) during the first two years of project implementation. To accomplish this objective and
also for accounting purposes to keep expenditures from the Credit for the water supply
component separate from the sewerage component, disbursements would be made as indicated
below.
5.45 For water supply related expenditures:
(a)   for works related to the distribution network rehabilitation, Part B of the Project,
100% of expenditures up to and including $2,000,000 and 60% of expenditures
over $2,000,000;
(b)   for works other than distribution network rehabilitation, 60%;



- 32 -
(c)   for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local expenditures (off-the-shelf); and
(d)   for consultants, training and project related travel of the borrower's personnel,
100 percent of expenditures.
5.46  For sewerage related expenditures:
(a)   for works other than distribution network rehabilitation, 60%;
(b>   for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local expenditures (off-the-shelf); and
(c)   for consultants, training and project related travel of the borrower's personnel,
100 percent of expenditures.
5.47 Withdrawal applications would be supported by standard documentation with the
exception of applications for expenditures against contracts valued at less than US$200,000
equivalent for works contracts and US$100,000 equivalent for goods contracts, which would be
submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). In such cases, procurement and
other supporting documentation would be retained by the PIU. Procurement and other
documentation relating to SOE disbursements would be subject to post review. The minimum
amount of withdrawal applications would be $20,000. Use of the SOE procedure is justified
based on the relative simplicity of the project's financial arrangements. The design and
construction supervision consultant would assist the PIU with the establishment of suitable
accounting for all ptoject expenditures and particularly for the administrative procedures for the
satisfactory handling of SOEs. The assistance would include the preparation of a manual
describing the procedures (para 7.4).
5.48 A Special Account would be opened at a foreign bank satisfactory to the Association.
The initial deposit would be for $0.5 million which is equivalent to four months of average
disbursements. The Director of the PIU, acting for MOC and DDWW would make witxhdawals
from the Special Account based on appropriate documentation. When disbursements from the
account would total one-third the initial deposit, the Project Coordinator would normally apply
to the Association for replenishment.
5.49 The proposed allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category for the Credit is
shown in Annex 13. A quarterly disbursement schedule for monitoring disbursements is in
Annex 14. It is based on the Association-wide disbursement profile for the water supply
subsector. The Credit closing date based on the same disbursement profile would be eight years
from  Credit approval (December 31, 2001).  However, it may well be that project
implementation will progress faster than the average Association project for the subsector in
which case disbursements to be made by DDWW would be at a higher rate. Revenue generation
and expenditure estimates used in the financial projections have, therefore been made on the
conservative assumption (from a revenue point of view) that the Project will be completed in six
years.



- 33 -
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
GENERAL
6.1  The financial evaluation has been made only of DDWW, because the financiai feasibility
of the Project depends only on their fmancial performance. DCSW and SSW and their proposed
successor organization, DDSW, even though they would benefit from the Project, they will not
contribute towards its cost. At the present time DCSW and SSW are dependent on subsidies
from GOA. They do not charge for their services. The issue of cost recovery for sewerage
services and the financing of future sewerage investments would be addressed by the proposed
sector strategy study (para 2.14).
CuRRNT SITuAnON AM ftOspEn FOR DDWW
6.2   DDWW's fmancial statements for 1991-1993 (see Annex 15) show that an operating loss
was incurred in 1991, amounting to US$57,000 (5% of operating revenue). In 1991, the
Govermnent covered the direct operating loss by providing a subsidy. The situation changed
considerably in 1992 when the Govenment approved a substantial increase in water tariffs.
Recorded net income was positive at US$17.,000, of which US$52,000 (30%) was paid to the
Govermnent ir- taxes. The 1993 budget indicates that the improved financial performance will
be sustained (See Table 15 A.2, Annex 15); however, the fimancial statements conceal a number
of serious problems which need to be addressed if DDWW is to operate on a sound financial
basis.
6.3   The main financial problems facing DDWW are: (a) accounts receivable are increasing
dramatically; (b) depreciation is based on historic book values that are not in line with asset
replacement costs; (c) operating costs in the future are expected to increase faster than the rate
of inflation; and (d) a GOA price cap on water tariffs is unrealistically low for DDWW with its
high operating costs.
6.4   Accounts Receivable. DDWW's accounts receivable were US$548,000 (46.2% of anndl
revenue) in 1991 and US$469,000 in 1992. This situation is causing increased cash flow
problems and DDWW is delaying the payment of outstanding operational bills (e.g. electricity
and some late payment of wages). DDWW does not maintain comprehensive iformation on
accounts receivable, but according to the Accounts Department local industries are the main non-
and late-payers. Industry accounts for 50% to 60% of operating revenue. The situation is
exacerbated by the present economic situation in Albania and will cause increasingly serious
problems for DDWW if the problem is not addressed as a matter of urgency. Under the
proposed institutional acton plan, DDWW would carry out the following: (a) seek agreement
on a payment policy between industry, Govermment and themselves; (b) produce a
comprehensive statement of accounts receivable by consumer category and age; (c) implement
a program for the effective recovery of outstanding accounts; and (d) include a provision in their
income statement for non-performing receivables.
6.5   Depreciation. In the financial accounts, DDWW's fixed assets are recorded at historic
cost and have never been revalued to bring them into line with current replacement costs. This



- 34 -
has resulted in inadequate sums being set aside to cover annual depreciation costs. If the assets
had been revaluet t-hen, with the resulting higher depreciation cost, actual operating losses
would have been greater in 1991, and the recorded profit in 1992 would probably have been a
loss. At the end of 1992, DDWW's balance sheet indicated that fixed assets had a value of
US$1.7 million at historic cost with an annual depreciation charge of only US$40,000. The
feasibility study placed a preliminary replacement value of. US$47.8 million of DDWW's
existing assets. As a result, DDWW has not been able to generate sufficient cash for proper
rehabilitation and replacement. The amount that DDWW  can charge for depreciation is
governed by law. 'Me GOA realizes that the law needs to be changed to allow for the adequate
depreciation charges and the tax law which covers depreciation charges for both private and state
owned enterprises is under revision. DDWW agreed during negotiations to control its costs and
adjusts its tariffs so that it would generate sufficient counterpart funds for investment in the
Project until the law is changed irrespective of the inadequacies of its depreciation charge. To
ensure that adequate funds are generated, DDWW agreed that the use of the working ratio which
does not include depreciation to monitor its financial performance during project implementation.
The agreed upon ratios were 60% in 1994 and 1995 and 55% thereafter.
6.6   Operating Costs. During the pre-project period, electricity for pumping accounted for
82% of direct operating costs. By contrast, maintenance now represents only 2% of the budget.
Maintenance expenditures must be increased in the future to sustain the benefits of the Project.
The current electricity tariff paid by DDWW is US$0.020/Kwh (as of January 1, 1994) which
is substantially below the international border price which is approximately US$0.026/Kwh.
With the development of an open market economy, it is expected that electricity prices will
increase significantly in the foreseeable future substantially above the rate of inflation.
DDWW's electricity consumption reached 41.3 million Kwh in 1992 and is not expected to
decrease in the future. The present rehabilitation project will not generate significant energy
savings, except indirectly through the reduction in physical water losses which will lower the
number of Kwh used for every m3 of water consumed.
6.7 DDWW employs a staff of 315 with salaries and wages accounting for 15% of direct
operating expenses. This is not a significant percentage; but there is pressure on DDWW to
maintain staff numbers, because of the current high level of unemployment. However, in the
future the management will need to reassess staffing levels and seek to improve labor
productivity.
6.8  In the last three to four years, maintenance of the water supply system has been
inadequate. This is reflected in the low levels of expenditure for maintenance historically and
is the result of GOA's desire to minimize increases in water tariffs as much as possible. The
decline in the level of maintenance has meant that many of the water supply assets are in a poor
state of repair and physical losses have risen to high levels by international standards. The main
objective of the Project will be to conrect this neglect; however, after completion of the Project,
to prevent a retum to the pre-project state, maintenance expenditures will have to be increased
also. The institutional Action Plans for DDWW and DDSW include the implementation of
preventive maintenance programs and improved budgeting procedures.



- 35 -
6.9   Existing Tariffs and Tariff Structure, Maxiimum water tariffs are set uniformly by the
Central Government and apply to the whole country. No variations are permitted which would
reflect the individual operating costs of each water supply system. In 1990 and 1991, DDWW
levied a flat rate charge of Lek 0.4 per m3 on all consumers, which was inadequate to cover all
of the recorded operating costs. With the recent changes in the economic system in Albania,
public utilities like DDWW have been obliged to becomn., more financially independent. DDWW
now has a target to cover all of its recorded operating costs. Consequently the charges for the
water supply services, with the approval of Central Govemment, have been increased on three
occasions since June 1992 (Table 6.1). The new tariffs include a number of important changes:
(a)      Distinct charges for different consumer categories - although domestic tariffs have
increased substantially since mid-1992, the Government has deliberately sought
to moderate the absolute level of increase in order to reduce the social impact.
The main burden of tariff increases has been borne by industrial users who are
now providing a significant cross-subsidy to domestic consumers.
(b)      Kavaja bulk supply - Kavaja Water Works was established as a separate operation
from DDWW in 1992. Since then a bulk water rate has been charged for the
annual transfer of approximately 2 million m3 from Fushe Kruja to the Kavaja
system.
TABLE 6.1: DDWW - WATER SUPPLY TARIFFS (1991-93)
(LEKs/M3)
1991       1992       1992         1993
Category                        September    June     September      April
Domestic                          0.4         1           4           5
Industrial                        3.0         4         5 to 8      40to 50
Institutional & Commercial        0.4         3           3         4 to 5
Hotels                            3.0         4         4 to 8        50
Kavaja - bulk supply              n.a.        2           2           3
6.10  Domestic billing is based on defmed levels of daily consumption which take into account
quality of service and the number of persons per family as follows:
6-24 hours service - 150 liters per head per day
2-6 hours service - 100 liters per head per day
0-2 hours service - 50 liters per head per day
6.11 Industrial, Commercial and ntitutional billing up to July 1993 was based on estimated
consumption according to the size of the service connection. A national regulation passed by
Parliament requires all non-domestic consumers to instll meters and for water works to bill



- 36 -
according to the meters. The demand management component of the Project (Part C.2 of the
Project) would include measures to ensure compliance with this law (para 5. 10).
6.12 Under the Project, the tariff structure would remain the same. However, charges would
be increased gradually in accordance with the project's financial strategy (para 6.13).
FwNANCIAL STRATEGY FoR DDWW AND THE PROJECT
6.13  The financial strategy for the Project recognizes that full cost recovery from tariffs
(operating costs, depreciation or debt service at market interest rates to the extent that it exceeds
depreciation and partial funding of investments) is not possible in the short term given the
collapse of the local economy in Durres. By the end of the Project, assuming the overall
economy in Albania and Durres improves, DDWW could achieve full cost recovery; however,
during project implementation, their revenues would cover only cash operating expenses, the
service fees on the IDA Credit and a cash contribution of about $2.0 million for investment in
the Project.
6.14 Specific aspects of the Project's financial strategy are as follows:
(a)      During the first two years of project implementation DDWW would maintain its
tariffs at the maximum level permitted by GOA's price controls. The fimancial
projections in Annex 15 indicate that these tariffs would be adequate to cover
DDWW's operating and maintenance costs but would not generate funds for
investment.
(b)      Each succeeding year following the first two years of project implementation,
DDWW would adjust its tariffs sufficiently to cover its cash operating expenses,
the service fees on the IDA Credit, and generate a cash flow sufficient to
contribute its annual budgeted share of the project cost plus ongoing investment
other than the Project. By the year 2000, tariffs would be based on full cost
recovery (generate revenues sufficient to cover operating costs, depreciation based
on revalued assets, debt service at market interest rates and partial funding of
investments) or set at the highest levels consistent with customer affordability and
quality of service.
(c)      Until the Project is complete, DDWW would limit its expenditures on investnents
other than the Project to US$50,000 per annum without first consulting with the
Association.
(d)      During the first two years of project implementation when DDWW's contribution
to the cost of the Project would be minimal, the Association would disburse for
100 percent of network rehabilitation expenditures (except local taxes and customs
duties which would be financed by GOA).
(e)      The IDA and GOA Credits would be onlent to DDWW at an interest rate of 7%
with DDWW  assuming the foreign exchange risk.   During  project



- 37 -
implementation, GOA would forgive the difference between its lending rate and
the IDA rate, and DDWW would record in its accounts the amount forgiven as
an equity contribution.
(f)     DDWW would index its tariffs to the cost of electricity and its salary costs so that
any increases in the cost of these items to DDWW would result in a compensating
increase in DDWW's average tariff for its next billing following the effective date
of the increase. The percentage increase that would be applied to the average
- - riff would be calculated according to the following formula:
Tn/To = Cl + En/Eo*C2 + Sn/So*C3; where Cl = 0.1, C2 = 0.7, C3
= 0.2, T = tariff, E = electricity, S = Salary; n = new and o = old.
(g)     If by the beginning of the third year of project implementation, GOA's policy
towards water tariffs has not changed, or earlier if there is an increase in the cost
of electricity or salaries approved by GOA, GOA would agree to exempt DDWW
from any price cap on its tariffs that would conflict with the Credit Agreement
and this strategy.
During negotiations, the MOC and DDWW agreed that items (c), (e), (f) and (g) would be
Credit conditions and that DDWW's compliance with the above strategy would be monitored by
its working ratio (para 6.5).
FuURE FINANCIAL PERFmANCE OF DDWW
6.15 DDWW's projected financial statements are set out in Annex 15 together with the
underlying financial assumptions. The projections cover the period from 1994 to 2001. The
projections indicate that DDWW's operations will be financially self-sustaining and will be able
to contribute $2.0 million towards the cost of the project with tariffs that are affordable.
6.16 The performance criteria on which the projections are based and which would serve as
monitoring indicators for project supervision are as follows:
(a)     domestic water sales no less than 5.9 Mm3 in 1994, 6.3 Mm3 in 1995, 6.7 Mm3
in 1996, 7.0 Mm3 in 1997, and 7.3 Mm3 in 1998;
(b)     industrial, commercial and institutional water sales no less than 5.8 Mm3 in 1994
and 1995; 6.1 Mm3 in 1996; 6.4 in 1997; and 6.7 Mm3 in 1998;
(c)      sales of bulk water to Kavaja at DDWW's marginal cost. Currently water is
being sold to Kavaja at $0.03 per m3. The estimated cost to DDWW is $0.08
per m3;
(d)     bad debts on water billings no more than 10% in 1994, 9% in 1995, 8% in 1996,
7% in 1997 and 5% thereafter;



- 38 -
(e)      average tariffs, assuming no increase in the cost of electricity and salaries, no less
than US$0.188 in 1994, US$0.179 in 1995, US$0.188 in 1996, US$0.194 in
1997, US$0. 195 in 1998 and US$0.199 in 1999.5 Tariff projections based on
the current tariff structure are in Annex Table 15 A.2; and
(f)      six year project implementation.
6.17  Only item (c) above, -the price of water sold to the Kavaja District Water Works, would
be the subject of a credit condition. Under the institutional strengthening action plan, DDWW
would establish a separate cost center in its accounting system for the supply of water to Kavaja.
During credit negotiations, assurance were obtained from MOC that DDWW would receive
either from the Kavaja District Water Works or GOA its marginal cost of the water it supplies
them beginning no later than June 30, 1994.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ORGANZATION  ND MANAGEMENT
7.1   GOA, through its Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment (MOC),
would be the borrower and would coordinate implementation of the Project (para 2.8). The Vice
Minister responsible for Communal Services would be the MOC official responsible. A project
coordinator in the Water Supply and Sewerage Division of the Communal Services Department
would be responsible for the day to day monitoring and coordination of the Project and ensuring
that the requirements of the Association are met. He would sign Credit disbursement requests.
7.2   The Durres District Water Works (DDWW), the current operator of the Durres District
water system and the organization responsible for preparing the Project (para 4.2), would
implement the Project. The Durres City Sewerage Works (DCSW) (para 4.15) and the Shijak
Sewerage Works (para 4.18) and their successor, for the Durres District Sewerage Works
(DDSW), would be the recipients of technical assistance for institutional strengthening and be
the benefiting agencies for the sewerage component of the Project; however, they would not be
directly involved in the implementation of the sewerage works or in the financing of the Project.
DDWW would implement the sewerage component on their behalf and turn the completed works
over to them.
7.3   DDWW  has formed a Project hmplementation Unit (PIU) to implement the Project,
manage the project account, carry out the procurement and prepare progress reports. The Unit
would comprise a director, two project engineers, a financial manager, three field engineers and
a secretary. The Director of the unit is the former Chief Engineer of DDWW and is acceptable
to the Association. The remaining staff may or may not be DDWW employees. Their
appointment would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Technical assistance to the PIU would
5f Because tariffs wiUl be indexed to the cost of electricity and salaries, these costs have been assumed constant in
all of the financial projections.



- 39 -
be provided by the same consultant selected to provide design and supervision services for the
Project (para 5.38).
7.4   Management of the Project would be in accordance with a project implementation manual
that would outline procedures for monitoring project implementation, processing of contractor
payments, including the preparation of letters of credit, processing IDA disbursement requests,
procurement, and management of project funds. The manual would be prepared by the project-
consultants and would be translated into Albanian. The project consultants would organize
training for the PIU in the procedures oulined in the manual using the manual as a training aid.
The consultants would provide advice to the Director of the PIU on an as-need basis after
completion of the initial training. Submission of a satisfactory draft of the manual to the
Association and the establishment of the project accounts in accordance with manual procedures
would be conditions of Credit effecdveness.
PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION
7.5   A step by step Action Plan for implementing the Project is in Annex 16. This plan
covers the initial steps necessary to launch the Project and the actions necessary to meet the
requirements of the Association. Separate Action Plans and schedules have been prepared for
implementing the institutional development technical assistance (Annexes 5 and 6). A
contracting schedule is in Annex 12.
7.6  The procurement of goods and works would be carried out by the PIU with the assistance
of the consultants, who have already been contracted and are satisfactory to the Association, for
final design, bid document preparation and construction supervision services. The consultants
would in addition advise the PIU on contract administration. One advisor from the consultants
would be in Durres when construction activities are in progress. Additional experts would be
brought in on an as need basis.
7.7   Most of the contracts would be fully engineered prior to bidding and award. However,
the largest contract for the rehabilitation of the distribution network would be different in that
only a small part of the work to be carried out has already been identified and the works
specified in detail. The bidding documents would specify the type of work to be undertaken and
ask bidders to bid unit prices on the basis of estimated quantides. Most of the work would be
identified by continuing investigations which would be carried out in parallel with the repair
work. This contract will require close supervision to instruct the contractor on the work to be
carried out on a day to day basis and to measure the quantity of work accomplished for payment
purposes. Careful records must also be kept of the changes that are made to the system for the
updating of the distribution maps. The rehabilitation and repair of the village systems would be
carried out by DDWW's own repair forces; therefore, the supervision requirements will be less
for this work.
7.8  The institutional development component of the Project (Parts E. 1 arn F. 1) would be
implemented in accordance with Action Plans agreed with MOC during negotiations (para 4.19),
The selection of the twinning partner to provide technical assistance would be carried out by the
PIU. So as not to overload the capacity of the recipients, the implementation of the technical



-40 -
assistance would be spread out over a three year period and only one part of the technical
assistance would be implemented at a time.
MANAGEMENT OF PRoJEcT FUNDS
7.9  In addition to the Special Account established for IDA Credit funds (para 5.48), a local
currency account would be established -to disburse for local expenditures. All local funds would
pass thorough the account, including funds from GOA for the reimbursement of customs duties.
The fund would be maintained in the National Bank of Albania. The accounting record for the
local funds account and the Special Account for the Credit would be maintained by the financial
manager of the PIU.
AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS
7.10 Both the project accounts and DDWW's accounts would be subject to a formal audit. At
present, DDWW keeps its accounts on a cash basis. The project accounts would continue to be
kept on a cash basis. However, DDWW's accounts will be changed to an accrual basis
consistent with the new Albanian accounting law (para 4.12) and internationally recognized
accounting principals and practices. The change would be implemented with technical assistance
for financial management and accounting to be provided under the Project. The target date for
implementation is June 30, 1994. Beginning with calendar year 1994, the DDWW would have
the project accounts, its financial statements and the IDA Special Account (para 5.48) audited
by an independent auditor acceptable Lo the Association and would submit annually to the
Association such audited accounts w :i;-n six months of the end of each year. The auditor's
report would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls,
the reliability of SOEs as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with financial
covenants in the Credit Agreement.
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
7.11  Success in Project implementation will be measured against the physical and financial
targets in Annex 18. Actual performance for each of the targets compared with the appraisal
projections would be compiled and reported to MOC and the Association semi-annually (para
7.12).
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
7.12 During negotiations, DDWW agreed that they would prepare and submit to the
Association each year until the Project is completed and the Credit is closed semi-annual reports
on project implementation and quarterly reports on their fimancial performance. The semi-annual
reports would be due on February 15th and August 15th for the six-month periods ending
December 31 and June 30th. The quarterly reports would be due on February 15th, May 15th,
August 15th and November 15th for quarters ending December 3 1st, March 3 1st, June 30th and
September 30th. The reports would consist of the following:



- 41 -
Semi-annual Project Implementation Report
- A brief discussion of progress in the implementation of the water supply component of
the Project
- A brief discussion of progress in the implementation of the sewerage component of the
Project
Status of the Action Plan for the Institutional Strengthening of the DDWW
- A contract procurement schedule (see Annex 12) modified to include percent complete
of those contracts in progress or completed
- Project expenditures to date by contract and source of financing
- Proposed actions for the next six month period
Quarterly Financial Performance Report
- A comparison of DDWW's actual performance against project targets (Annex 18)
- A brief discussion of the financial condition of DDWW at the end of the reporting period
- DDWW's income statement for the preceding quarter and projected income statement for
the next quarter
- DDWW's sources and application of funds statement for the preceding quarter and
projected sources and application of funds statement for the next quarter
- Tariff schedule in effect at the end of the reporting period and the date of any changes
- Proposed actions for the next quarter
- DDWW's Balance Sheet as of December 31st (report due February 15th only)
- Income statement for the preceding year (report due February 15th only)
- Sources and application of funds statement for the preceding year (report due February
15th only)
- Proposed budget for the next calendar year (report due November 15th only)
- Projected income statement for the next fiscal year (report due November 15th only)
The quarterly financial reports would be in addition to DDWW's amual audit report (para 7.1J).



-42 -
7.13 During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following additional reports: (a)
semi-annually, a report from DDSW after their formation on the implementation of their
institutional strengthening action plan; and (b) six months following the closing date of the
Credit, a project completion report from DDWW and DDSW on the implementation of the
Project, the implementation of the institutional strengthening action plans and fte results of the
Projec'.
ASSOCIATioN SUPERVISION
7.14 Intensive supervision would be required for the first year following Credit approval;
however, once the initial contracts are let, it is expected that supervision could be cut back to
normal levels for a typical Association investment type Credit. Intensive supervision the first
year would be required not only because all the involved agencies lack experience with the
Association, but also because they lack experience with the project management and procurement
methods the Association expects to be followed in implementing the Project. Initially,
supervision would focus on project management, procurement, project financing, Credit
disbursement procedures, methods of payment and reporting.
7.15 Later, Association supervision would focus more on the technical, financial and
institutional aspects of the Project. During the design of the Project, it was clear that project
benefits depend substantially on the successful implementation of the following measures which
would be given particular attention during supervision:
(a)      The ability to reduce wastage by consumers. The water conservation program
must be monitored continuously for effectiveness and modified if it is not
producing results (para 5.10).
(b)      The readjustment of tariffs annually to meet budget requirements for the next year
and in when electricity prices and salary increases are approved by GOA. Failure
to implement tariff increases when required could jeopardize the project financing
plan (para 6.14).
(c)      The collection of water bills especially from industrial and institutional customers.
Even with adequate tariffs, a poor collection rate also could jeopardize the project
financing plan and cause a slow down in project implementation.
7.16 Association supervision requirements over the life of the Project are estimated at 46 staff
weeks of which 14 staff weeks would be at headquarters.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS
BENEFITS
8.1   The benefits of the Project would be a safe and dependable water supply for 200,000
existing consumers in the Durres and Kavaja Districts with attendant health benefits and the
elimination of water supply as a constraint to economic development in the project area. About



- 43 -
100,000 residents in Durres City and Shijak Town would benefit from improved sewerage
service. In addition, it is expected that the experiences learned by MOC during the
implementation of the Project would be of benefit to the whole sector in the future.
LEAST COST SOLUTION
8.2  The main investment objective of the Project is to increase the availability of water to
existing customers. The alternatives considered were to increase production capacity or to
reduce leakage and wastage by rehabilitation and a water demand management program. A
water audit estimated leakage at 50% of production (70% if the systems were pressurized
continuously) and water usage by consumers who have a continuous supply to be excessive. - The
next increment of supply would cost a minimum of US$17 million and would have to be coupled
with a network rehabilitation program, otherwise most of the additional water would have been
lost. Financial constraints plus the fact that the existing per capita production capacity of 375
1/cd would be sufficient to meet system demands if the system were tight, household plumbing
systems did not leak and customers did not waste water, make rehabilitation the only feasible
alternative and the least cost solution.
RATE OF RETURN
8.3   The incremental rate of return (IRR) has been calculated using the value of a cubic meter
of water consumed as a proxy for benefits. The value of water was based on a household
I"willingness to pay" survey undertaken by the feasibility study consultants in January 1993
which determined that consumers would pay $0.221m3 for water if service were improved.
Based on public sector salary increases that were implemented in September 1993, this amount
was increased to $0.26/m3 for use in the IRR calculations. The approach is considered
conservative because it does not include non-quantifiable benefits, such as reduction in disease
and the costs to consumers who invest in storage tanks and alternative supplies to compensate
for the inadequacies of the system. The cost and benefit streams are for a period of 25 years
and include only the incremental costs and benefits that result from the Project. All costs are
in January 1993 prices and exclude taxes. Local labor and electricity costs are shadow priced.
The resultant IRR is 10.6%. It would range from 7.8% to 12.2% if costs and benefits were to
increased or decreased by 10% respectively and benefits were to lag by one year (See Annex
19).
AvERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF WATER (AIC)
8.4  The AIC in constant 1993 prices was calculated for comparison with existing and
proposed tariffs as an indicator of their adequacy for meeting future costs. The results are
presented in Table 8.1. The assumptions and calculations are summarized in Annex 20. The
AIC has been calculated only for the Project and not for the next increment of production
capacity to be developed at Fushe Kuqe. The AIC is higher than the domestic tariff and the
average tariff projected for the end of the Project. This is acceptable given the poverty
alleviation aspects of the Project and the fact that the industrial tariff exceeds the AIC and the
government and commercial tariff is about equal to the AIC.



-44 -
TABLE 8.1: COMPARISON OF PROJECTED WATER TARIFFS WITH
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTS IN 1993 CONSTANT PRICES
Rate, US$/m3
AIC Project at a 8% Discount Rate  0.225
AIC Project at a 10% Discount Rate  0.260
AIC Project at a 12% Discount Rate  0.299
Existing Tariffs
Average                      0.182
Domestic                     0.048
Industrial                   0.388
Gov & Commercial             0.291
Projected 2000 Tariffs
Average                      0.164
Domestic                     0.055
Industrial                   0.363
Cvov & Commercial            0.250
AFFORDABIUTY
8.5   Water tariffs under the Project would not impose an unacceptable burden on domestic
customers and the poverty group. Average monthly household incomes are estimated at $40 per
month in Durres, Durres Beach and Shijak and $28 per month in the Villages. Poverty
household level incomes are estimated at US$30 per month for Durres, Durres Beach and Shijak
and US$20 per month for the Villages. These estimates are based on the results of the
household survey adjusted to take into account the September 1993 public sector salary
mcreases. The same survey confirmed that most low income households would be willing to
pay 3 to 5 percent of household income for water supply and sanitation services if the servces
were reliable. The standard normally used in Bank projects is 5% of household income and is
the target adopted for the Project. Because there are no sewerage charges at present, no
allowance was made for sewerage for detennining tariff affordability.
8.6   Table 8.2 compares the amount of a family's unetered water bill projected for the year
2000, the first year following project completion, with esfimates of current household incomes
increased only to take into account inflation. Bills could be less based on metered consumption.
All bills are equal to or less than 5% of household income, the target for the Project.
POVERTY IMPACT
8.7   Although it is expected that about 5,000 persons could be connected to the system during
the Project, system expansion is not the objective and no extensions are planned. The main
benefits of the Project wfll accrue to the existing population served by DDWW who number
155,000, not including, the population served in Kavaja who will benefit only marginally from
the Project. All DDWW's customers are expected to realized some measure of improved
service. However, only 42% are expected to receive substantial improvement. A conservative
estimate would place 30% of the population in the poverty group. Assuming 42% of this group



-45 -
TABLE 8.2: AFFORDABILITY OF WATER TARIFFS ON PROJECT COMPLETION (2000)
Urban Areas                 Villages
Average      Poverty     Average       Poverty
Family size, Nr.                      4.3          4.3          5.2           5.2
Billing basis, U/cd a/                150           150         ISS 150
Monthly income, USS bf                 62           47           43           32
Quantity billed per month, m3         19.3         19.3         23.4         23.4
Applicable Tariff, US$/m3             0.068        0.068       0.068         0.068
Monthly water bill, USS               1.31         1.31         1.59         1.59t
Water bill as a % of income, %         2.1         2.8          3.7           5.0
J  Billing basis for customer in 6-24 hr service per day category.
b/ Monthly incomes are assumed to increase at the same rate assumed for inflation (3.1%).
will also experience significant improved service, the number of poor who will benefit from the
Project is estimated at 19,000.
RIsKS
8.8   There are three significant risks to successfil implementation of the Project. The first
is that the rehabilitation measures to be undertaken will not reduce the water losses enough to
significantly improve water service in the project area as has happened in similar projects in
other countries. To maximize the chances for success, the borrower has engaged a firm with
demonstrated success, in similar situations to prepare and supervise implementation of the
Project and has given particular importance to the design of this component. The second risk
is that the weakness of the existing institutions will result in delays in implementation. The
presence of the same consultants should mininize this risk too. The third risk is financial. It
is possible that DDWW will not raise sufficient cash to fund the local share of the project cost.
Close monitoring by the Association by frequent missions and quarterly reportig to the
Association by DDWW on the status of their finances should enable any shortfall to be identified
quickly so that remedial action can be taken.
EK. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.1   During Credit negotiations, agreement was reached with GOA and/or DDWW:
(a)    on an  institutional strengthening  Action Plan for the restrcturing  and
strengthening of DDWW (paras 4.19 and 5.13);
(b)    on the establishment of DDSW as a new state enterprise no later than December
31, 1994 and an Action Plan for their strengthening (para 4.19);



-46 -
(c)   that GOA would provide as a grant the funds necessary for the implementation
of the sewerage component of the Project, including the amounts allocated from
the Credit (paras 5.20, 5.23, 5.24 and 5.26);
(d)   that GOA would provide DDWW a $4.0 million credit for investment in the
Project (paras 5.20 and 5.24);
(e)   that GOA would reimburse DDWW as an equity contribution customs duties and
taxes on the water component of the Project (paras 5.20 and 5.26);
(t)   on the indexing of DDWW's tariffs to the cost of salaries and electricity (para
6.14);
(g)   on an exemption for DDWW from any price cap on its tariffs that would conflict
with the financial strategy for DDWW and the Project (paras 5.33 and 6.14);
(h)   on a $50,000 annual limit on DDWW's expenditures on investments other than
the Project (para 6.14);
(i)   that DDWW would receive either from the Kavaja District Water Works or GOA
the marginal cost of the water it supplies Kavaja from June 30, 1994 onwards
(para 6.17);
(j)   that DDWW would control their costs and maintain their tariffs such that their
working ratio is no more than 60% in 1994 and 1995 and 55% thereafter (paras
6.5 and 6.14);
(k)   that DDWW  would submit to the Association semi-annual reports on
implementation of the Project, implementation of their institutional strengthening
Action Plan and compliance with project conditionality (para 7.12);
(I)   that DDWW would submit to the Association quarterly reports on their fiancial
performance (para 7.12);
(m)   that DDWW would submit to the Association for review and comment no later
than November 15th each year as a part of their quarterly report for the third
quarter, their proposed budget and tariffs for the next year with supporting
financial projections (para 7.12); and
(n)   that the DDSW after their formation would submit to the Association semi-annual
reports of the implementation of their institutional strengthening Action Plan (para
7.13).
9.2   GOA and/or DDWW  agreed in addition to the following conditions for Credit
effectiveness:



-47 -
(a)   the selection of consultants satisfactory to the Association for the provision of
technical assistance for institutional strengthening (para 5.13);
(b)   the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement by DDWW with GOA satisfactory
to the Association (pan 5.22); and
(C)   the staffing of the PIU, the preparation of a project implementation manual and
the establishment of project accounts (pans 7.3 and 7.4).
-3 tWith the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a
Credit of SDR 8.4 million (US$11.6 million equivalent) at standard terms with 40 years
matuiity.



-49 -
,ANNEXES



- 51 -                                     Annx I
Page I of 6
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABIfITATION PROJECT
Water Supply Required
BACKGROUND
I.    The Durres District Water Works (DDWW) supplies water for domestic, industrial
and institutional uses to a wide area. Most of its customers are in the urban areas of Durres
City, Durres Beach for the Town of Shijak. In addition, it serves 27 villages in the District
and the villages of Marikaj, Gerdec and Mariqinet in Tirana District. The Kavaja District
has its own water works which purchases water in bulk from the DDWW. In August 1991
the southern half of the province was separated and put under the administration the City of
Kavaja. Not all the villages are served by the DDWW. At present 20% of the Durres
villages and 80% of the Kavaja villages have independent sources. Except for one isolated
case no other new connection is foreseen and therefore, it is assumed that those villages will
continue to use different sources.
2.    A small component of the demand that is expected to develop in the future is the
demand for tourism. Tourism is expected to develop along the coast. It is estimated that
Golem-Karpen in Kavaja Province could receive 30,000 tourists in hotels and 15,000 tourists
in other types of accommodation within the next 10 to 15 years.
3.    The DDWW supply system consists of three branches. The oldest one, Pjesge, now
supplies only the nearby villages, including some villages belonging to Tirana District. The
main supply comes from Fushe Kuqe well field which provides water to the city and several
villages. Also Kavaja's bulk water is drawn from this resource. The third and most recent
supply comes from the Fushe Kruja wells. This source supplies the Town of Shijak and the
surrounding villages.
4.    At present the DDWW serves a population of about 187,000 in Durres and Kavaja
provinces. The overall production is assessed to 780 I/sec but less than half reaches the
users due to distribution losses.
DEMAND FORECAST
5.    The demand forecast was prepared as a part of the feasibility study.' This annex
summarizes the results and describes the methodology.
1/    Duffes Water Supply Rehabilitation Project Feasibility Study, C.Lotti & Associati - Roma in Association with SEBA
Messtechnik - Klagenfurt, July 1993.



Annex I                                     52 -
Page 2 of 6
6.    It is difficult to assess the current demand of the DDWW system because no customer
metering has been in effect in the last ten years. Also, the data received from different
sources is not always consistent with known facts. In order to overcome these difficulties,
data from similar water systems outside Albania was used extensively.
7.    Domestic Demand. The domestic demand was calculated based on estimates of
future population and per capita demand. The GOA has a demand target of 1501 /cd for
estimating domestic water requirements which is a reasonable goal for the near future.2 At
present only a fraction of this amount is supplied and the service is irregular. It is assumed
that the target demand can be satisfied grdually in the next 10 years. After that date firther
increase is estimated: 175 i/cd for the urban areas by year 2lO. Also in the villages full
inside connections are foreseen in order to ensure improved sanitary conditions.
8.    The future population was forecasted using separate assumptions on natural and
migratory growth. The total population served is expected to reach 386,300 by year 2010.
9.    Industrial Demand. In 1992 the DDWW billed local industries for 5.5 million m3
which is equivalent to 176 I/sec. This amount was derived not from metering but from the
connection sizes and it forms the base for billing. A revised estimate, obtained from the
measurements of the water production and losses assessed the industrial demand to be 127
I/sec.
10.   The projection of industrial demand was made on the basis of demand per industrial
worker. Past industrial water use for a single a single worker equals 310 I/cd. The
industrial production, and in particular the per capita production, is extremely low.
Industrial land use in the two districts extends over 675 ha. The This includes the harbor,
the Shkozet industrial zone, Porto Romano and the fisheries. The future specific demand per
industrial worker, taking in account all factors, is estimated at 600 I/day/worker. The
number of industial workers is expected to increase from the present 35,000 to 55,100 by
2010.
11.  InstituIional Demand. The existin insfitutional demand is 60 I/cd. This means that
the per capita domestic demand is about the same as the institutional demand even though the
services offered to the population are generally inadequate. In the future, through more
rational control and tariff policy, the institutional demand is expected to be contained while
the domestic demand increases. The per capita instutdonal demand assumed for the future is
65 I/cd.
12.   Tourism Demand. The estimates for the tourism development are based a draft of a
tourism development study carried out by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and data from the Ministry of Tourism and the Urban Development Institute.
The former carried out a very detailed but conservative study of the tourism potential while
the others presented estimates that are overly optmistic. The projection of tourism demand
2/    Decree N.102 daed March 16, 1992 set ISO Ipcd for private comections and 60 Ipcd using outside standpipes.



- 53 -                                   Anex
Page 3 of 6
relied primarily on the growth estimates of the EBRD which estimates 7,500 beds and 3,000
campsites for the year 2020 for the area in both the Durres and Kavaja Districts in areas
along the Adriatic Coast. The average per capita water demand for hotel guests is 450 lI/d
and 150 I/day for campers.-
13. Losses. Current system losses amount are estimated at 50% of production. It is
assumed that upon the completion of the Project in 1998, the loss will be reduced to 35%
and to 20% by 2010.
14.  Overal Demand. A graphical presentation of the average day water demand until
2010 is shown in Figure A3.1. The population projections are in Table A3.1 and the
demand calculations are in Table A3.2. The tables contain the demand type and location, the
resident and served population (in thousands), the per capita demand (I/cd) and the total
flow (1/sec and 1,000 m3/d). The total production requirement in terms of the population
served and per capita production will increase from the present 325 I/cd to 445 I/cd by 2010
and the net supply of water or water sold from 175 I/cd to 356 1/cd.



- 54 -
Page 4 of 6
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY RBILTATON PROJECT
able IA.1: AVERAGE DAY WATER DENAD BY AREA
2500
2000
. 1500
.1000
500
4r~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0
1992         1995        2000         2005         2010
_g-Total pmjearea      Durres dsrictam
Kawja ditict area
no in1 Vs
-^ w W, AOF       JD  FORFFSr: AM, d MM
-~ 10512000120-'  0 
-i>                                    I ---
Leuos~~~~ _=d I @ 2 -   U              I1 
- :rwg                     R  S      aRM I
= t.WD  ~21r(V ..I .DD I  Avl 1aY ded1
A~~~~~~(1!dl __84BIOI, 1_m
..        (us) I   70 I1il19
MnUM = UPS mti-r demaml! AnnOa Aver  ctav deM=d



- 55 -                                              AmInne1
Page 5 of 6
ALBANIA
DTRRES WATER SUPPLY REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Tab_e 1A.2: POPULATION PROJECTION
Population forecast
(W. Oila  computaion  sed on 1989-992 daf-t
ear   Airea               Gr wth              GOmwth  Pulao
--Niural Mbito        Total   factor   xlQOO
189 D                 1.88      1.68     3.56     1.00   83
Kavala city      1.80      1.20     3.00     1.00      283
wi ShiWak       2Z0 -  0.50         2.5      l.Ot       96
oulm vilt        1.85     -0.55     1.30     i.        68es
Kviia .vir       t .85    -0.M5     1.30C    1.00      61.
1_ Dms dty__          120      4.00      520      1.11     893.0
KaIta lcty    - 1130       1.50     2.80     1.09      30.9
_  Suak cHtlI         1.30     0.80      2.10     1.08      10.6
Owres vil       1.80     -.30      1.50     1.04      71.6
FKaaa vill           1.80     -0.30  .  1.50      1.04      642
__  Dies              1.00     6.00      7.00     1.29     10
r__ la                t1.10    2.00      3.10     1.19      33.l
___J            akeiW 1.10  1.50    2.60     1.15      11
Dunesviit        1.60      0.00     1.60     1.09      74
__  Kavalaviti        1.60     0.00      16i0     1.09      67
20b        en      1    0.80   4.t0      48i.     1.81     151
r eNW8 cdty      1.00      3.00     4.00     1.38     391
-v  ShEiaksiq         1.00     2.50      3.50     1.301     12
_  Ourres viil  r     1.40     0.20      1.60     1.18      81.
K iCavaja viR    1.40     T20       1.60     1.18      72.7
2OI Duiies dty        0.80      2.00     2.80      ;!       191.1
Kavaia db        1.00     2.00      3.00     1.68      47.
Shilak           10 t     2.00      3.00     1.55      15
Dres vAll        1.20      0.20     1.40     1.27      87.8
Kavaa vll        1.20      0.20     1.40     127       78.
2010 Dim2.63                                               220.3
_______ Ydiv  cHy1.05                      55
E ___               ---                           1.79      17.
__   ure vIti    --                            1.371      94.1
-   aja viii  -    -   =     -   ~~~~       ~~1.37  84.
Notes:
1.     Migrtion assumed to increase to a maximum in the next years and then gradually decrease
due to saturation.
2.     Natual growth will continue to diminish as in other European countries.
3.,    Migatory loss of villages is assumed to slow down as local inaves become capable of
providing occupaion.
4.     Growth factor is computed as the sum of the previous growth factor add the compounded
rate of the ltest period.
5.     Growth factor for all villages are assumed equal.
6.     Kavaja city population includes Rrogoxhina city.



M    1                                            -56 -
Page 6 of 6
i . . S  aS  S S S .  S S 55 5 5*  u K L S S       l S
E    S       | | _  _ e E - ~    S     S EE*S S S  i  E*  E i  | |
3~~~
| X z | . 1 _ R | _ ~'     2                               k o       ,.|                 
iS.    i S                    S 3 E    __      i_ gSt
o  ~~~~~~~~t
II~~                        I   IC a                a     
S                                               5-   5   -    S 



- 57 -                                       
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Durms Distict Water Works Organzaton
_Mlnter_                      I
Ministy of Construtlon, Housing and
Tfrritofy Adjustment
Vice Minister
r       --   -          -              Public SaN;cee Department
I ~~I
Water Supply and Seweroage Sr-Aces
Division
|                  l         ~~~~~~~~Chairman (Vce Minisew)
|                 |            ~~~~~~~~Board of DlfeMos
Managing Director
.       .                            Durres District Water Workb
I.,
.    M an Ctta       n                         nginetMai Riencdd Un
iPro,wc inpmiD ntidon                       Techlc,l D"tepnt                            irnancial i)epartment
urtit ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    4 Acor Ddo 
I       ~~sales       I
Che  fPodeo  n                        Ctdd                         Cuef of Stiak and
TChbf son D Wodue onan                   of Durms                           Musles
Tr n missin DivisionDivision                                      Divisn
L  Qperations   |       1             1             L    ~~~~~~Opeaiions 1
Pump Sutadon                .         Meclurdcai                     Msftw r          1
Maintwanc Unit |                     Maintenance Unit|                  iUn cent 
_   Pidnein                             E _   3ctical i
_ Mainteonnoo Unit |_ Maintenance Unit|



ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Durres District Water Works Staff
by Salary, Educational Qualifications, Length of Service and Gender
Education
School                      Service (years)       Gender
Position               Basic Sal.    Univ./College    High      Middle    Element.  0-5          5-10       10+        Male      Female   Total
Director               4,000         1                                                           1                     1                   1
Chief Engineer         3,800         1                                                                      1          1                   1
Chief Accountant       3,800         1                                                           1                     1                   1
Engineers              3,350        6                                                            2         4           4         2         6
Accountants            3,200        4                                                 1                    3                     4         4
Technicians            3,000                                    4                                          4           3         1         4
Elecickians            2,650                         16         8                     4         2           I8         24                  24
Plumbers              2,520                          50         27                    8          10        59          77                  77
Pump Operators         2,324-2,541                   20         29                    16         8         25          39        10        49
Chlorinators           2,440                                    4                                1         3                     4         4
Accounts Clerks       2.400                                     7                     2          1         4                     7         7
Storekeeper           2,400                                     1                                1                     1                   1
Drivers               2,400                                     6                                          6           6                   6
Workers:
- SilUled             2,400                                     29                    7          8          14         25        4         29
- Unskiled            2,08S                                                33         14         7          12         31        2         33
Billing Clerks        2,320                                     24                    9.         3          12         14        10        24
Watchmen               2,085                                               41         20         10         I 1       41                   41
Total                               13               86         139        74         81         55         176       268        44        312
D itri     %) b   (%                4%               27%        45%        24%        27%        18%       56%         86%       14%       100%
27%-                          ' 56. =      1-



-61-                                       Annx-4
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Accounting Practices in Albania and the New Accounting Law
General
1.    The prse  accounting system used in Albama was first introduced in 1965 by the
Minist" of Finance (MOF) and, with a number of subsequent modifications is -followed by all
state-owned enterprises like DDWW. The system is based on double-entry book-keeping and
many of its main components are similar to the financial accounting procedures used in Western
Europe. Before the recent political and economic changes in Albania, all state-owned enterprises
were required to process their main financial accounts through the Economic Evidence Office
(EEO) of the Ministry of Finance. This system has now lapsed because there is no legal
framework which obliges enterprises to use the EEO. Many companies are becoming
increasingly reliant on their own accounting systems, particularly as they are now required to
be more financially self-reliant.
DDWW Accounts
2.    DDWW maintains its own accounting system which is entirely mamnal; although it still
uses the local EEO office to process some fiancial accounts, pardy because it has the use of
computers. In recent years, DDWW's fiancial accounts have experienced a number of
significant changes with the separation from the local electricity enterprise in April 1991 and the
creation of the Kavaja District Water Works in 1992. Regular finnial reports are sent to the
Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment (MOC). In the past, officials were
sent from Tirana to carry out annual financial audits, but this has not occurred for two years
because of the recent changes in the national government.
Durres and Shijak Sewerage System Accounts
3.    The cost accounts for the sewerage systems of Durres City and Shijak Town are
maintained within the municipal financial accounts of the two communities. The direct expenses
for each system are recorded under separate cost centers (e.g. salaries/wages and electricity),
but other items such as materials/supplies and transport are pooled under general sub-headigs
which are difficult to allocate.
New Accounting Law
4.    The Albanian authorities have generally recognized the need to improve the accuracy and
coverage of the accounting systems for state-owned enterprises which are acquiring increased
financial autonomy. In January 1992, the Albanian Parliament approved a new Accounnq
Law based on the French accountancy system.



Annex 4                                   -62-
Page 2 of 2
Proposed Changes to the Accounting Systems of the DDWW, the DCSW and the SSW
5.    Under fte Project, the accounting systems for the three entities providing water supply
and sewerage services in the D)urres District would be improved as follows:
a.    The introduction of computers to facilitate the development of an integrated
accoundng system. Suitable software packages are available in Western Europe;
and it is reported that a newly formed private company in Tirana has developed
a new accounting progran called INFOSOFT, but it is not known whether the
package takes account of the new Accountancy Law and how suitable it would
be for the integrated public service functions of DDWW.
b.   Integration with an appropriate management informnation system which would
provide management with regular summary data on all the key financial nd
operating parameters.
C.    Development of a future financial planning function so that management has a
clear picture of development over the next five years in terms of: investment
requirements; capital replacement; cost profiles; staffing; human resource
development; and tariffs.
d.   The annual external auditing of financial accounts.



-63-                                     A
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABIMATIN PROJECT
Action Plan for ihe Institutional Strengthening
Of the Durres Ditrict Water Works
Objective
1.    The management of the Dunres District Water Works (DDWW) agre to take all
measr  necessary to improve DDWW's operational, commercial and fnantcial performance
so as to:
provide its customers with a safe and continuous supply of water at the lowest
possible cost;
finternally generate the local counterpart funds required for the Project; and
service its loan from the Government for the Project.
Actions to be Taken
2. ' The specific actions to be taken to achieve the above objectives are as follows:
4/15194     prepare a project manual on all aspects of project implementation, including
financing and reporting;
6/30/94     reorganize the DDWW to include a board of directors, an administrative
department with divisions for administration, personnel and customer relations
and a procuremen and stores division within the exisig finance department;
6/30/94     design and implement a water conservation program comprising public
information on the need to conserve water and repair leaking plumbing;
6/30/94     implement a procedure for the rular updating of system maps and records.
6/30/94     design and implement a conventional commercial accounting system as
required by the new Accountancy Law passed by the Parliament in January
1993 using computers;
6/30/94     design and implement a computer-based billing system;
12/31/94    design and implement a preventive maintenance program and include its cost
in the annual budget;



Annex 5                                     - 64 -
Page 2 of 2
12/31194    design and implement a program to reduce accounts receivable comprising: (i)
agreement with the GOA on a payment policy for state-owned enterprises; (ii)
establishing of a coehensive statement of accounts receivable by consumer
category and age; and (iii) te inclusion of a provision in DDWW's income
statement for non-performing receivables;
12/31194    prepare an assessment of ftmre manpower r       and based on the
assessment prepare and implement 10 year staffing plan;
12131194    prepae job desriptions for A permanen staff positions-
12/31/94    prepare and implement a taining program to upgrade and improve the skDlls of
DDWW staff;
6130/94     design and implement a managemen information system; and
3/31196     prepare an annual report on DDWW's operations beginning with the year
endig Decembe 31, 1995.
Technical Assistance
3.    The DDWW would be assisted with the implementation of the Plan by an experienced
water company through a twining arrangement.
Monitorig Indicators
4.    The success of the Plan in meeting its objectives would be measured by Monitoring
indicators for the Project which are presented in a separate annex.



- 65 -                                   Annex
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Action Plan for Improving the M   nt of Sewerag Services
in the Durres Disict
Objective
1.   The borrower agrees to take the following measres to improve the quality of
sewerage services in the Dunres District and to make the service self sufficient:
Actions to be Taken
2.    The specific actions to be taken to achieve the above objectives are as tollows:
12131/94    establish a district sewerage enterprise with responsibility for the provision of
sewerage service throughout the Durres Distict by combining and building on
the existing enterprises now providing sewerage service for Durres City and
Shijak Town;
6/30/95     cause the new enterprise to prepare an assessment of fuiture manpower
requirements and based on the assessment, prepare an implement a 10 year
staffing pln;
6/30/95     cause the new enterprise to prepare job descriptions for all permanent staff
positions;
6130/95     cause the new enterprise to desip and implement a traing program to
upgrade and improve the skills of its staff;
6130/95     cause the new enterprise to organize and implement an information system
including the preparation and updating of maps of all collecdon systems in the
Dunres District;
6/30/95     cause the new enterprise to organize a program for routie cleaning of the
sewerage collection systems in the District;
12/31/95    cause the new enteiprise to desigp and implement a conventional commercial
accounting system as required by the new Aconancy Law passed by the
Parliament in January 1993;
/1/196      implement sewerage tarffs with the billing and collecdng to be carried out by
the DDWW;



Spew 6                                     -66-
Page 2 of 2
3/31196     cause the new enterprise to prepare annual reports on its operations; and
12/31/99    cafry out the rehabilitation works in Durres City and Shijak Town mclded in
the Part D of the project.
Technial Assstance
3.    The borrower would be assisted with the implementtion of the Plan by an
experienced sewerage company through a twiMing arrangement.



-67 -                                        Annex 7
Page I of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Legal Description of the Project
Part A: Water Supply, Transmission and Storage
1.    Well Fied Pumping Station Rehabilitatio::
(a)   Increase of the reliability of Fushe Kuqe and Fushe Kruja pumping stations with the
replacement of the electrical transformers, switch gear and chlorination equipment.
(b)    Replacement of piping at the Fushe Kuqe Pumping station and installation of new
pump sets.
2.    Fushe Knrua Well Field Pump Replacement - Replacement of existing well pumps with
higher capacity submersible pumps.
3.    Booster Pumping Station Rehabilitation - Rehabilitation of booster pumping stations
serving the Project Area by new electrical installations, replacement of valves, piping and
pumps.
Part B: Water Distribution
1.    Rehabilitation of networks in the high population density and industrial areas of the Project
Area through leak repair, pipe replacement, service connection replacement and the
replacement of valves that are beyond repair.
2.    Construction of a 2,000 m3 additional storage at the site of existing Reservoir No. 2.
Part C: Water Loss Reduction and Demand MNangement
1.    Master Metering - Installation of master meters at the discharges of each distribution
reservoir, at each connection to the Fuche Kuge and Fuche Kruja transmission mains and at
key points in the distribution networks in the Project Area.
2.    Water Demand Management Program - Introduction of a water demand management
program including: (i) a customer education program in water conservation; (ii) consumer
billing based on metered water use for customers with meters; and (iii) the installation of
meters on customer service connections with no meters.
Part D: Sewerage
1.    Rehabilitation of eight pumping stations in the Durres sewerage system.
2.    Rehabilitation of the Durres and Shijak sewerage collection and drainage systems.



AwL!                                           -68-
Page 2 of 2
Pbwt   T cnical Assstae ad Insttutional             tfor Water- Supply
1.    Provision of technical assistance in accounting, billing and collecting, financial
management, information management, and maintenance management, and optimization of
facilities operation.
2.    Revision and updating of the water supply master'plan for the Project Area.
3.    Refurbishing and equipping of DDWW's newly acquired building.
4.    Carrying out of sector training in water system management.
5.    Preparation of final designs and bidding docutnents for the Fushe Kuge well field expansion
and pipeline.
6.    Provision of equipment for the use of DDWW in operating and mainning the water
systems in the Project Area.
Pat FM  Technial Assstnce and Institu5iona             for Seweage
1.    Provision of technical assistance in institutional reorganization, accounting, billing and
collecting, financial management, information management, and maintenance management.
2.    Development of a permanent records system.
3.    Preparation of a sewerage master plan for the Project Area.
4.    Carrying out of sector training in sewerage system management.
5.    Provision of operation and maintenance equipment for operation and maintenance of the
sewerage systems in the Project Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.



-69-                                      A
Page 1 of 12
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Institutional Strengtheng Technical Assstae
A. GENERAL OBJECTIVES
1.    The aim of the technical assistance component is to provide institutional sr
in the form of specialist advice and training to upgrade the human resources, procedum   and
mnfonnaton systems of DDWW and the proposed Durres District Sewerage Works. The
assisace will focus on the key areas of: water supply operations and maintna;
sewerage operations and maintnance; financial accoundng; information technology; and
other specialt inputs. It is envisaged that the assistae will concenate on practical
taining and applications which will be sustnable in the futre and enhance the operating
performance of the target organiations. In addition, it is proposed that the trainig
framework established in Durres should be developed as a model for replication in other
water supply and sewerage organizations in Albania.
2.   The proposed technical assistance will build on and develop the training carried out in
the Pilot Zones during the Feasibility Study and METAP Project.
B. SCOPE OF WORK
1.   Introduction. The proposed technical assistance program will be carried out by a
team of specalists with detailed practcal working experience in the water supply and
sewerage sector. The proposed team will include the followig specialists:
a.    Water Supply - Operations and Maintance Speciast: 18 months.
b.    Sewerage - Operations and Maint       Specialist: 4 months.
c.    Finanal Accounting Specialist: 6 months.
d.    Information Technology Specialist: 2 months.
e.    Other Specialist inputs: 3 to 4 months.
2.    The specialists would be expected to work in close collaboration with senior managers
in DDWW and DDSW; and hold regular liaison meetings with senior officials in MOC.
3.    The main tasks for each specialist are, but not necesarily limited to, those specified
in the following sub-sections.



Annex 8                                   -70 -
Page 2 of 12
4.   Water Supply - Operations and Maintenance Specialist. The Water Supply -
Operations and Maintenance Specialist should have at least 10 years pracical experience at a
managerial level in the operations and maintenance of modem water supply systems. The
Specialist would act as the Team Leader and Coordinator for the proposed technical
assistance program.
5.    The main tasks and activities for the Water Supply - Operations and Maintenae
Specialist are as follows:
General
(a)   Act as the Project Manager for the technical assistance program; and
coordinate all inputs and outputs.
(b)   Liaise closely with DDWW, DDSW and MOC.
(c)   Coordinate the production and presentation of all reports. These will include
regular progress reports, topic reports, specialists' reports and final report.
Policies and Procedures
(d)   Review the operations and maintenance policies and procedures of DDWW
and make appropriate recommendations for improvements.
(e)   Review and make recommendations on the need for an operations and
maintnance manual.
(f)   Review and make recommendations on the scheduling and planning of
operations and maintenance manual.
(g) Develop administrative procedures for communications, transport, inventory
control, procurement, security and other matters related to operations and
maintenance.
(h) Develop appropriate reporting and information systems for the operations and
mlaintenane departments. The system(s) should: incorporate appropriate
costing components; be presentable in summary form for management
decision-making; and be capable of integration into a management information
system.
(i)   Assist in the preparation and implementation of a public education program to
promote and encourage water conservation and the reduction of wastage.



-71-                                      Annex
Page 3 of 12
Manpower and Staffing
()   Assess DDWW's manpowet requirements in the operations and maintenace
departments based on the proposed organizational -stucure, the
implementation of the Rehabilitation Project and a realistic forecast of
DDWW's operational and maintenance activities over the next I years.
(k)   Assess gaps or excesses in staffmg needs in terms of number, job
cliassification, expertise and e nce  quired (iccount should be taken of
better utilization of existing staff together with the associated training
required).
(1)   Review results of the training carried out in the Pilot Zones during the
Feasibility Study and the METAP project.
(m)  Prepare a staffing plan for the operations and maintenance departments - takn
account of the results of the review under Items (j), (k) and (1) above.
(n)   Review and recommend procedures for maintaining personnel records.
(o)   Assess fiuther taining needs in the operations and maintenance departments
and prepare a detailed training program. The program should include possible
in-house training, supplementary training at appropriate institutions (local and
overseas) and on-the-job training.
(p) Implement the training program with the support of additional specialist inputs
when required. The program should include the training of local tainers i.e.
staff members who can act as future trainers within DDWW, the proposed
Durres District Water Supply and Sewerage Company and other water supply
enterprises in Albania.
(q)   Establish a training unit which will satisfy the fur training needs of
DDWW, the proposed Durres District Water Supply and Sewerage Company
and the water supply operations in Albama.
6.    Sewerage - Operations and Maintenace Speciat. The Sewerage - Operations
and M nance Specialist should have at least 10 years practical experience at a mangerial
level in the operations and maintenance of modem sewerage systems.
7.    The main tasks and activities for the Sewerage - Operations and Maintenance
Specialis are as follows:



Anex 8                                     -72-
Page 4 of 12
General
(a)   Work in close collaboration with the Project Manager (Water Supply -
Operations and Maintenance Specialist), DDSW and MOC.
(b)   Prepare specific topic reports and a specialists' report.
Policies and Procedures
(c)   Review the operations and maintenance policies and procedures of DDSW and
make appropriate recommendations for improvement.
(d)   Review and make recommendations on the need for an operations and
maintenance manual.
(e)   Review and make recommendations on the scheduling and planning of
operations and maintenance activities.
(f)   Assist in Developing administrative procedures for communications, transport,
inventory control, procurement, security and other matters related to
operations and maintenance.
(g)   Assist in developing appropriate reporting and information systems for the
sewerage networks. The system should: incorporate appropriate costing
components; be presentable in summary form for management decision-
making; and be capable of integration into a management information system.
Manpower and Staffing
(h) Assess DDSW's manpower requirements based on the proposed organizational
structure, the implementation of the Rehabilitation Project and a realistic
forecast of DDSW's operational and maintenance activities over the next 10
years.
(i)   Assess gaps or excesses in staffing needs in terms of number, job
classification, expertise and expenence required (account should be taken of
better utilization of existing staff together with the associated training
required).
(j)   Prepare a staffing plan for DDSW - taking account of the results of the review
under Items (c) and (d) above.
(k) Prepare job descriptions and statement of objectives for all managerial,
supervisory and general staff positons in DDSW.



-73 -                                     Amex 8
Page 5 of 12
Training
(1)   Assess further training needs for DDSW and prepare an appropriate training
program. The program should be integrated with the proposals for the water,
supply component (see Item (o) above) and include possible in-house training
supplementary training at appropiate intutions (local and overseas) and on-
the-job traimng.
(m)  Itnitiate the traming program which -ill include the taining of local trus
i.e. staff members who can act as futue trainers within the proposed Dures
District Water Supply and Sewerage Company; and for other sewerage
enterprises in Albania.
(n) Assist in establishing a training unit which will satisfy the future training needs
of the proposed Dumes District Water Supply and Sewerage Company and
other sewerage operations in Albania.
8.   FInncial Accounting Specialist. The Financial Accounting Specialist should be a
qualified accountant with at least 10 years practical experience at a managerial level in the
financial department of a modern water supply company or similar public utility enterprise.
9.    The main tasks and activities for the Financial Accounting Specialist are as follows:
General
(a)   Work in close collaboration with the Project Manager (Water Supply -
Operations and Mainenance Specialist), DDWW, DDSW and MOC.
(b) Prepare specific topic reports and specialists' report.
Policies and Procedures
(c)   Review and make recommendations for improvements in the financial policies
and procedures of DDWW and the proposed Dures District Water Supply and
Sewerage Company. This will include tariffs, billing, debt collection, etc.
(d) Prepare detailed recommendations for an appropriate modem commercial
accountig system which will serve the future requies of the proposed
Duffes District Water Supply and Sewerage Company and conform to the
requirements of the new Accountacy Law (January 1992).
(e)   Advise on the introduction of sewerage charges in Durres and Shijak.
(f)   Advise on the introduction and presentation of applications for reglar tarff
increase.



Ainex 8                                     74
Page 6 of 12
(g)   Review and make recommendations for improvements in the preparation and
control of annual budgets for both recurrent and capital expenditure.
(h) Advise on the introduction of an appropriate financial planning framework for
the future development of DD)W  and the proposed Dufes District Water
Supply and Sewerage Conpany.
(i)   Assist in developing administrative procedures for imventory control,
purement, and other matters related to operations and maintenance.
(j)   Assist in establishing an administrative office within DDWW which will
service the requirements of senior managers. The aim of the office will be to
improve administrative systems within the organization, to establish and
operate a management information system and to provide secretarial services.
(k)   Monitor financial performance of the DDWW and assist with the preparation
of the first financial reports to be submitted to the Association.
Manpower and Staffimg
(1)   Assess the manpower requirements of the Financial Department based on the
proposed organizational structure and the implementation of the Rehabilitation
Project.
(M)  Assess gaps or excesses in staffing needs of the Financial Department in terms
of the numbe:, job classification, expertise and experience required (account
should be taken of better utilization of existing staff together with the
associated training required).
(n) Prepa-e job descriptions and statement of objectives for all managerial,
supervisory and general staff positions in the Financial Department.
Trag
(o) Assess training needs for the Financial Department and prepare an appropriate
training program. The program should incluae possible in-house training,
supplementary taining at appropriate institutions (local and overseas) and on-
the-job taining.
(p) Initiate the training program which will include the training of local trainers
i.e. staff members who can act as future trainers within the proposed Durres
Distict Water Supply and Sewerage Company and for other similar enterprises
in Albania.



75 -                                     AM  8
Page 7 of 12
(q)   Assist in establishing a training unit which will satisfy the future traiing needs
of the proposed Durres District Water Supply and Sewerage Company and
other similar operations in Albania.
10. Information Technology Specialist. The Infornation Technology Specialist should
be qualified and experienced in the introduction and operation of information systems,
computer hardware and software, and the application of computer techniques for billing,
fnncial accountng and management information systems (MIS). He/she should have at
least 5 to 10 years practical experience in a modem water supply company or similar public
utility enterprize.
11.   The main tasks and activities for the Information Technology Specialist are as
follows:
General
(a)   Work in close collaboration with the Project Manager (Water Supply -
Operations and Maintenance Specialist), DDWW, DDSW and MOC. In
particular, he/she will work closely with the Financial Accounting Specialist.
(b)   Prepare specific topic reports and a specialists' report.
Policies and Procedures
(c)   Review existing computer facilities and advise on furer reourm   for
computer hardware and software for future billing, financial accounting,
management information system, etc. It is envisaged that the inroduction of
further computing facilities should be in discrete stages in line with realistic
requirements and the competence of local staff to operate and use the system
effectively.
(d) Assist the Financial Accounting Specialist with advice on computer
applications for modern commercial accountng, anmal budget preparation,
etc.
(e)   Assist in developing an appropriate managemet informat  system (MlIS) for
DDWW and the proposed Durres District Water Supply and Sewerage
Company. The system should incorporate appropriate costing component, be
presentable in summary form for management decision-maidng, and be capable
of producing regular reports in appropriate detail.
(f)   Identify local compames and agencies which are capable of providig support
services for computer operations in the form of maintenance and supplies,
software packages, software development, traiing, etc.



-76 -
Page 8 of 12
Manpower and Training
(g)   Assess the future manpower requirements for operating the computer facilites
in terms of the number, job lasification and ta--.
(hi)  Inate the tamiig program and assist in establishig the computig
component of the proposed training unit.
12.'  Other Speialt Inputs. Other Specialist inputs will be determined by the core team
in close consutation with DDWW, DDSW and MOC up to a total of 3 to 4 man months.
The other Specialists may cover the following skills: supervision of Operations and
Maintenance; Scheduling and Planning of Operations and Maintenance Activities; Quality
Control; Financial Accounting; Training of Trainers; etc.
C. LOCAL INPUTS
13.   DDWW and DDSW will appoint appropriate staff members to work in collaboration
with the Specialists. MOC will also nominate a staff member who will liaise with the team,
particularly on the training components and the establishment of a Traiing Unit which can
serve the needs of other water supply and sewerage operations in Albania. DDWW and
DDSW will provide: suitably equipped office space and appropriate back-p facilities;
copies of the reports on the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitaton Project; access to all
approprate files and information within the three organizations; permitting staff to participate
in the agreed taining program; assistng in the establishment of a Trainng Unit; etc.
D. STUDY REPORTS
14.   The following reports will be prepared and presented:
a.   Inception report within one month of the mobilization in Albania. The report
will outine the details of the work to be carried out and the persons
responsible for carrying out specific activities.
b.    Progress reports every two months. These should include a review of
progress, highlighting of major issues, proposed amendments in the work plan,
and a brief summary of actvities for the ne=t four months.
c.    Topic reports on specific major issues. These reports should be oudied in the
Inception Report.
d.    Specialist reports - all specialists will be required to submit a report on their
activities and recommendations.
e.    Final report will be prepared by the Project Manager.



- 77 -                                   Annex 8
Page 9 of 12
15.   The reports will be submitted to MOC, DDWW, DDSW and the World Bank for
review and comment.
Appendix I - List of Reports and Documents
ALBANIAN SOURCES
A.   Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE)
1.    Statistical Yearbook of Albania 1991, Statistical Directorate, September 1991.
B.   Ministry of Tourism
2.    Albania Tourism Guidelines - Draft Version 2, Touche Ross & Co., July 1992
(under assigmnent from European Bank for Reconstruction and Development).
C.   Legislation (Laws and Regulations)
3.    Water Supply Management for Domestic and Non-Domestic Consumers, No.
236, May 1993 (English translation).
4.    Urban Planning Law, No. 7693, April 1993 (partial English translation).
5.    Accountancy Law, No. 7661, January 1993 (English translation).
6.    Law for State Sanitary Inspectorate, No. 7643, December 1992 (partial
English translation).
7.    Public Enterprises Law, No. 7582, July 1992 (English translation).
8.    Law on Organization and Function of Local Govermnent, No. 7491, April
1991 (English translation).
9.    Norms for Use and Price of Potable Water in Urban and Rural Areas, No.
102, March 1992 (English translation).
10.   Revaluation of Assets of Public Enterprises and State Property, Instruction No.
7, February 1992 (English translation).
11.   Administration of Water Works in Towns and Villages, No. 63, September
1978 and No. 163, May 1981 (partial English translation).
12.   Provision and Conservation of Water for Industrial and Drnking
Requirements, NO. 58, September 1978; No. 63, September 1978; and No.
163, May 1981 (partial English translation).



Annex 8                                    - 78 -
Page 10 of 12
13.   Provisions for Construction and Maintenance of Roads, pavements, Sewers
and Drains in Towns, No. 363, September 1964 (partial English translation).
D.   Others
14.   Albanian Economic Tribune - August, September, October and November
1992; February and March 1993.
15.   Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project Feasibility Study, C. Lotti &
Associati, Rome and SEBA MESSTECHNIK, Klagenfurt, July 1993 (four
volumes)
INTERNATIONAL SOURCES
E.   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD - World Bank)
16.   Albania: Environmental Strategy Study, June 1993.
17.   Albania: Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, Staff Appraisal Report,
World Bank, February 1993.
18.   Water Pollution Control: Guidelines for Project Planning and Financing, R.C.
Palange and A. Zavala, Technical Paper NO. 73, October 1987.
19.   Country Experiences with Water Resources Management: Economic,
Istitutional, Technological and Environmental Issues, eds. G. Le Moigne, S.
Barhouti, G. Feder, L. Garbus and M. Xie, Technical Paper No. 175, June
1992.
20.   Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Environment Departnent:
Volume  I  Policies, Procedures and Cross-Sectoral Issues, Technical Paper
No.139, December 1991.
Volume II  Sectoral Guidelines, Technical Paper No. 140, August 1991
Volume III  Guidelines for Enviromnental Assessment of Energy and
Industry Projects, Technical Paper No. 154, January 1992.
21.   Drought Planning and Water Efficiency Implications in Water Resources
Management, H.D. Frederikson, Technical Paper No. 185, September 1992.
22.   Balancing Water Demands with Supplies - The Role of Management in a
World of Increasing Scarcity, K.D. Frederick, Technical Paper No. 189,
February 1993.



-79 -                             Annex
Page 11 of 12
23.   Water AHocation, Rights, and Pricing - Exampls from Japan ad the Untiod
States, J.R. Teerink and M. Nakasbina, Tecbnical Paper No. 198, Febnwy
1993.
F.   World Health Organzation (WHO)
24. Water Supply and Sanitation: Handbook of Financial Principles and Methods,
1990.
G.   InternatnMonetary Fund  MF)
25.   Albania: Recent Economic Developments, Inteonal Monety Fund,
August 1992.
26.   Albania: From Isolation Toward Reform, Occasional Paper 98, Internional
Monetay Fund, Sember 1992.
H.   European Bank for Reconsruction and Devdopment (EBID)
27.   Quarterly Economic Review, June and Setembe 1992 and April 1993.
28.   Annual Economic Review 1992.
I.    Water Training Inteonal (United Kingdom)
29.   Course brochures in fields of:
a.    Water Supply arAd Distribution
b.    Engieeing Design and Conct Mana
c.    Management, Supervisoiy, Law and Fie
d.    Sewerage and Sewage Treatment
e.     s eaon Contol and Automation (ICA), Electonics and
Personal Computers
f.    Rivers, Water Science and the Environment
J.    LIsldaion (United Kingdom)
Note: copies of Items 29 to 32 were presented to MOC.
30.   Water Act 1989
32.   Water Resources Act 1991
33.  Wu,Ar Industy Act 1991
34.   Environmental Protection Act 1991



Ami                                  -80-
Page 12 of 12
35.   Water In Italy - Technical, Lgal and Administrative Aspects Ministry of
Public Works, Italy, Ocober 1992.



-81-                                           9
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operadon and             Equi_p
The following equipment would be- purchased under the project to en e the
operation and maiintenance capabilties of the Du    Distict Watr Woris aid the neW
Duaes Distict Sewerage Works:
Dures District Water Works
Pickup trucks (4)
Light vans (2)
1.5 ton :tuck (1)
Office qpmen (furnitr, stationey, ffle cabinet, et.)
Leak detecdon equipme  (pipe locators, listening devices, meters, pressue recordes,
etc.)
Leak noise correlator (1)
Hand tools
Dewagtring pumps (4)
Portable geners (2)
Compressors and pnumatic hammers (2)
Truck mounted cne (1)
Backhoe excavator (1)
Vibtors (2)
Grtound pipe frezers (3)
Computes (4)
Dus District Sewerage Wors
Pickup trucks (2)
Light vans (1)
1.5 ton tuck (1)
Office equipment (furnre, sionery, ile cabinets, etc.)
Hand tools
DewaString pumps (3)
Portable generators (2)
Comps  and pnemadc hammers (2)
Trck mounted crane (1)
Bwckioe excavator (1)
Vlbaors (2) 
Computers (2)
Septic tank clea
See rodding machine (1)



-83 -                                    Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILIFATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
1.    Summary cost estimates by component, year and contract are included in Tables 10
A.1 through 10 A.5 of this Annex. All costs are presented either in Leks, US Dollars or
both. Detailed estimates are included in the Project File. Base costs are in January 1993
prices. The base cost exchange rate is 100 to 1.
2.    Civil works cost estimates are based on preliminary quantity estimates and unit prices
of similar work in Albania. Pipe, equipment, and material costs are based on supplier
quotations.
3.    The cost of consultants for design, construction supervision, and technical assistance
are based on nan-month estimates and rates charged by foreign and local consultants in
Albania. Local staff costs have not been included.
4.    Customs duties are estimated at $1.2 million and are included in the cost estimates for
all imported at an average rate of 15% of total cost.
5.    Physical contingencies are 10 percent for equipment, materials and civil works except
for historical expenditures (expenditures in 1993). Price contingency factors assumed an
international inflation rate of 3.1% for foreign costs in US Dollars. Local costs in Leks
assumed the following inflation rates: 27% in 1994; 19% in 1995; 16% in 1996 and 14% in
1997.



TABLE 10 A.1: PRoJECT CosT BY COMPONmNT
%     %iToma                                       11    %TOM
po.sgn     _a..                                     Foreign   _t
Laca       F~            TotalM    !         Cosmb     Local     Fo-a       ITOM  _              Co0
A. W r $upply ed Transm
VJ FMI pp SW n Rdata -on                                  9,576    17221    284,84.9              65       1S      60.1      1,66       254.5         85       Is
FJCn4o Vib FMid Pump RI   _M                               8,29.3      17,040.4     23,332.7      73        1       6o.6      163.9       22.4        73        1
Ekoeto Pmp StYAon Rulebilatlon                            6,081.1      8,834.8     14,695.7      69        1       68.3       83.0       141.3       59        1
SWJdWsv    Soply and Tnunebnhon                             104,924.2    197,951.1    302,875.3     65       -  T-7i           1.91,E4     292.31J
L    _w Wrblboon
OWibjtonNotwok Podhatbn                                  348,140.0    504,400.0    852,6410       59       48    3,347.      4,6850.0    8,197.6      69       46
Roaesr* No. 2 Adhan                                       14,144D0      6,65.0      20,800.0      32        1       M13.0      64.0       2D0.0       32       1
Sbtotalw vWar DdbullMo                                     362i284.0    511,056.0    673.340.0      59       50-   3,483.5     4,914.0       W     T$ 5F         50
C Wster Lao Redulldon
Sbraw  mndhsOiSk Maeteo i                                  2,179.8      4,762.9      6.94Z8       69        -       21.0       48.6        618        69        *
Dsma, MdMmq.t   Aet    Poipm un                           16,432.0     84,080.0     70,512.0      77        4      156.0      520,0       678.0       77        4
Sabtota" WaitLos Low Ris"on                                  18,611.8    66,84.9      77,464.8      76 -  4          179.        5          744.6       76        4
D._Ourg
OuDa osPnpStsBWanRai abln                                  6,146.0     11,7572      16,906.2      70        1       49.6      t13.1       162         70        1
oues Cdlon Sygem R         _bltn                           9,36o.0      1,040.0     10,400.0      10        I       90.0        10,0      100.0       10        1
St" TwkS 8r                                               29,0t6.0      3,224.0     322240.0      10        2      279.0      31.0        310.0       10        2
Subtal       _ srs   *                                      43,24.0      16,021.2     59,6462       27        3      416.5       154.1      srzT
L Iuh11__ a S rt&gpwng (WateSupply)
Ila gmomITA                                                S,990.4     45,92S.4     51,916.6      86        3       57.6      441,        489.2       as        3
VIrSu1p*8 morFPbnIUpdm*n                                   4,160.0      1,040        5,200.0      20                40.0        10.0       W.         20
O1as _Rssaebulim                                           4,82.O        m.o        5,720.0      16        -       46.8        83         55.0       15
OSM Equpm    s                                            10,47.       69,74.0      8o01,6       87        5      100.7      871A0       771.7       87        5
F. KUqsdIField       n  D.noor                                         41,sslO      41,600.0     100        2          *      400.0       400.0      100        2
Subto  trislonal Stsgi n (w  suppl)                         25,480.0    159,206.4    164,686.4      so'      I       248.0 M-a                                  1-1T
F. Insloud Sbsngn    (Swamp)
Am  mi a tTA                                               3,640.0     28,891.2     32,5312       s9        2       35.0       277.        12.8       89        2
S     rsPs M ePlan                                         6,240.0      1,560        7,00N0       20                60.0        15.0       75.0       20
OSM Eq**mt (Sawg)                                          4.7112      3t1401.0     36192         87        2       44.3      3020        347.3       e7        2
Subtotal hulbiflsnel St,snglmsnlng (Sewerage)               14.5912      81,099.2     76,45 - 0       1       4      140.3      594.A      "    I       61        4
a Phtm PrPlW                                                17,7U2.6    16,839.2    14,1920         90       10      170.7     1602.3      1773.O       90       10
TotaDASEUECOSTS                                             568,166.0    1,171.576    1,76,746       Et         -   Coal    11!9J         1^,91.0        87     10
Phydwalcawg_                                              563352       97,507.0     53,842.2      63        9      541.7      937.6      1.479.3      63        9
ftC        ni                                            396,2B.4_  539,67.1    935,0236          58       53      481.9      666        1,126.5      R7        7
tlPR        TCOSTS                                          1,069,770    1,506,742    2,848,512                     5,8B9.4    12,640.4    19,11J.       so     115



TAKE 10 A.2: Pxocr Conr sy ComyomT m YEAR
(US$'OOO)
To bh _tMIt9  M 
1 1999  --  119'1              19        Is"          M..  1r9|l    T001
WdFftf   NRd        OPump P&-                                  -              1,333    1,013.       6032      95      3,098.6
FXna  WSFbMMld RPunp_W                                                           -165.                       66.      44.6      279.3
Booder Pump Staon RebblIlla                                  - n-                           -      60.       62.4     5.2       178.1
SOWN Watr supply and Tr-mossion                                                    -      ,33                 73U    1264        3,5.1
Obb*tn Newd Rob tn                                           -   34635      36.0    1,187A    1224.2            ,        ,    9,41.1
RNWlr No.2 AddIon                                                                                 146.9       101     * .       247.9
duW3M -    33                                                                 3.0    1,187.4   1,371.1         101.D       '
C. VWa  Los Pudnon
80um and Oidcti ng                                           .         .         -       67.4       7.3        5.0       -       79.8
'mmD-      geme ction Prorm                              385.8                1324      144.0    67.5        30,3    280         7.1
Subtdi      1 We Lou Reduction                             386.8                132.4     211.4      64.90             2.          5.9
Dwro Punp Stdo.n R _b11 -                                                        *      161.1      12.2         -        -      193.4
Dwrs Cdbectin Sysn Re1 _W o                                  -         -         -       32.1      67.3       22.7       *      122.1
Sbluk Truck -e                                               -                                    ' 18.7                        36 385.4
S8ot         _ wwg                                                                             213.2  269.3    218.4'             700.9
. Insfibonud Skungmng (Wte Supply)
aTment TA                                                    -     170.*      207.6     175.8         -                  -      554.0
W      tSupply mer Pla Updatn                                                                                          z -   *  -  .  .    621    , 2.1
Roabucn                                                  6045         -         -          -         -                          60.5
O    EqnW         )                                          -         -      533.2     366.5         -         *        -      899.7
F. Kuqp Wd Field EiqansDo)  n                                                      _ 45t                                        453.4
81*to  hi ion   bungfluen   (Wab SuppIy)                    60.5     170.6     740.8       9.6          -         *    62.1    2,029.7
F.D lnmutl    Slm ngeg (Sewwag)
_ Ta egmsn TA                                                     -           162.1     189.9         -                         352.0
so g Master a                                                                    *                           90.4        *       90.4
OW E*sn (Seweae)                                                                  .0     82.5                                   402.5
SubtothsbWM  1    trgtmt  Swage)                               -         -     48.1       272.          -A 904                    1.
0. PrgtPree n                                              660.0     719.8      109.9     113.3     1052       72.3    6.1       1,842.5
Toa PROuECT sT                                          71,OB.3    4,3768.63  3,0t5    100.qg  349,61 88
-    '    '         Ii



TABILE 10 A.3: PRo11= COST BY CoMPONBNT MND PINANCIB
(U$'"O)
3_        ff 1_  E44M        o o_sZ 
WfbidlulSlRalilit_                 ~~~~~~3&1t    *M2  224.    SOA9                                   27&0            3,089 IS1$       2.002      SttA      M.0
FJ*FblPuttP_         3a8   t2.0        >     JOX       ^      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o ~ 212    7.8    27.3    IA       2'D32      4BD0      J02
P r  SienRdd_                       ~~~~~~~~~~192    10.8   1452   Irls                               1    3.7   7.7 _   t.1  '0.9      106T7     a"3       t4.2
t_rd1bw  m  Spl mm1 1f  ut.3                                   2A44 --Bf                                                8.                       IM109.0 31lL  18N31IA
131111AMMlmRtP_gM                               O92      6.      4,7     S1                    4 -  3   27.0  I1^.8   14         9S1.t  *4A       SpO       39.    ff19.2
_=Wl*ft? 2AddMOw                                  OA       -      1410    GO.A                     _ *            93.1  40.0       247.9    13       78       16.1-
s_t vw      rokvm*                                619.2  -_      -4,10 6.s"*                     2.5493 2-6.3   1,4D 1S            90--W.o A--   W "Wo.e  6ot4J -3-4.0     9 
sourco ick-A ct_hb                               8.01X10O  37A                                   21.7  27.2      IO9   24.8       79.6   014        E4A       17A       8D0
D      _ft_rpmoAetn"m                            90.2  12.4       312S0  403        *3S 4               432       32.0   4.1       Mlz   4.0        688A       99.9      E8.2
_dfWwdLewsRof                                     10'-  1=22    3426' 40.0*                       as7.0  M1.7       61.6             S9*  :.4A        eu2A-   11-Sr       sB2r
DwPuro$WmRn mbfWm                                38.6  t9.9       1#.0   80.1       .               .      ..              .       193.4   1.0   -134.3        5         4.8
OwM Codfbcn &SM  R e_AM                          49    40D0       73.3  60.0                                                       M  A.12.    0.6   122      109.9  
#lk*_                  , a                       21U.2_3   4593 12                             _    ,          ._-                 - Ig 09 _ -     - 185.0   611.0'       4.;
It      TA                                        4.8   0.9      St6.9  93.3        .     -      3?2    6S                        S -      2        4S9S       GOA       4.0
rS_P$*maw pla                                     OD -fl          62.1 a    100.0                                                   ai    O' *     - 8.1 0   1.  49.J  
Cft  PAW*-d                                                       30.3  50.0                                      3   - :0.3  6D.0  80.5   0.3        9.      5Sts
0       S     6                                 11wVWIt.4  13.0   92J    92         -MA69               77A8         -            ".7   4A0         74                  ` 117.4
F. IXtFb*0t " D.*                                                4SS.  100 (                        .      .O                     45A       "       40.4
8S_e__uq I  -12. t,146.4   6z4il                                                                                      -     - 71A3.3    1 2,0Q'.7 ilO.4  1   4B 6.6?22
*_  rA                                       2.1    oJ6     331L    95.5      -               a     39-               -      Ki                 14        15        t
S_pl_Pbn * * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90.4 100.0                                                                              0       0.4   0.6  1S.1.   7 
osl_ _)~~~~u(                             62,6  t35        4-        -M _                         4&T      -                i84 4"4-i; w                      4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'TdG9 -TUW                                  a -3           1      ODA                             -198t-7 40.0         0      Q iAa  --- 1"  t



TABLE 10 A.4: PRoJBCT COST BY CoNTRACT AND FINANCIER
(US$ '000)
Lood
GM!               UKIA        EAFGrn           GOAPA  cmii   DCww  wM m-             TOiM                  (5*iL    Dutie &
piam  1%     Anummft     %    AMNONAount %xw                                                      FO%  XCLo1X)           a
supF ofm'uDomuc m                       17.3   13.0          -                            1152   67.0         -              132.4   0.7 -     112           -      17.3
SuW* ofid EMwsandMfbMs                 2163   130        12.1    7.6               -    1.315.8   79.4        -            1.,2       8.5    141.9           -     216.3
SUR* ofE**w     Wmm,andMtwab (PPF)      31.4   130       200.3   87.0       -                       **                       240.7    i.2      200.3        -       31.4
Sdo  Goods                             S.05   WU3         335.43416.5T      *           1,431.0   70.4       -'    -         0--- 1-033--ir-  163          -       265.0
OfieRe _oO oPf)                            -      -       30.3   500                                        30.3   50.0      6O05    0.3         0.1      51A          *
velrd No. 2 AddMon                       0.0      .      148.7   60.0              -         .               09.1   40.0     247.9   1.3        78.      109.1         -
6mgIadsfstWsabdckhMimn2 ae              57.3   25.1      136.8   60.0       .         *                     33.9   14.9      227.9    1.2       t2.5     215.4
SbrmCok*tosysham                       154.2   40.0      231.2   80.0       .      .         .                    *          3854    20         3$85     346.8
i4SdYYorks              ~211.S   22.9                    547,0   593                                - *          ' , 1633   VJ.  92t 7    4.   i 38.9  - me2D
Oledulon System RobdlIUon              627.2    6.6    4,753.3   50.0       -      -   2,571.0   27.0   1,63.5   10.4    9.6150   48.7    6,690.1   3,297.7        627.2
PuqinhStmawnRelabjtaUon                439.9   11.7    2,090.7   80.0       *0-              .      -      200.9 0   .3    3.749.6   19.2    2449.3      971.0     329.2
d8nistet                              1,087.1    8.0  - 7,763.0   54  -            -       5271.0  19.41                   13,264.5  ezb-N 42,039R7A               9564A
keItr_eSngV,sn                           0.0             0 53.0  100.0      -      *         .      .         .      .       853.0    4.4      758.0     97.1
Fem8  Sd  (PPf and MEtAP)                  *             323.4   49.0   336.6   5.           *      -         .      -       60.0    3.4       000.6      69.4
Eno""                                    0.0      *    1,635.8  100.0       -1.                          *           *     1,835.0    0.     1,517.6     118.2
tw s*8plVA$ sPbn Upda                    0.0      -       621   100.0       *      -         -      .         -      *        61    0.3          kA4    '49.7
mwogmuutmPlmn                            -      *        904  100.0        -      -                                         O O *  90.4  .23
__ _conuAn                                0.0                                   1-2 _%_30_           -                          3 16.9    2-004.6        39. M7
~1,54.5    1.9    MOM                                           BO1                    41.0010   269'I0. 5    Y    7 '    1,518.8     T    I2,50       5jU8.1   1,22i.3
Ii



TABLE A.5: DSURS9EMENT BY YBAR AND FINANCER
(US$ '000)
Financing Available
METAP                DDWW       -GOA          Total
Year  IDA    Grant  GOA Credit  Revenues EguitylGrant  Project Costs
Amount Amount   Amount    Amount   Amount             Amount
1993    608.2   336.6        82.9      30.3       50.3          1,106.3
1994  2,495.9      -       1,510.9        -      387.0          4,373.8
*1995  2,731.0       -      1,892.5        -      387.7          5,011.3
1998  2,875.1      -        487.1     912.7      301.7          4,376.6
1997  1,815.0      -         26.9     957.6      251.6          3,051,1
1998    973.8      -          1.7     112.3      163.0          1,250.9
1999    302.8      -            -      23.7       22.2            348.8
Total   11,600.0   336.6     4,002.0    2,036.7    1,543.5        19,518.8



- 89-
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Profiles of Poteia ldusal Polluters
i. Name:                      Plastic Factory
2. Name & telpoe of            Selai agani, 23186
3. Location                    Skonet
4. Product                     Extuded plastic containers, objects & pipes
5. Soure of water swpply       Durres District Water Works
6. Moothly water use           1,460 m3
7. Use of water                Cleaning, cooling, stem production
8. Water reuse                 Cooling water and condensed steam is recirlated.
9. Treatment of wastewate      None
10. Disca                     Draia  chne. Does not enter swer sysem
I1. status                    Oprating 25% capacity.
1. Name                       Chemical Factory
2. Name & teephone of
umanae
3. Loaton                      Durmes
4. Product                     NaCr2O7:2H20; Na2S203:5H20; Na2S03; MgS04:2H20;
A12(S04):18H20.
S. Source of water supply      On-sigbt well
6. Monthly water use           2,000 m3
7. Use of Water                Chemical procesing, cooling and cleang. Discbage i contamiated.
8. Water reus                  Cooling water is recirulted.
9. Treatment                   None
10. Discharge                 fainag chanel. Does not enter swer sytem
11. Statu                     Not op_ting.



-90 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
1. Name                       Pesticide Factoiy
2. Name & telephone of
.manager   . .        -,-.      -,.. 
3. Loamtion                   Durres
4. Product                    Granular Sulfer, C6H6C15 (forrmieline 2.5%); Cl2H11NO2 (Carbarul
(semi 5%); [C4H8C1303 Diptereks (Triklorofou) (5%)]; S60% +CAC03
40% (Sufazol (Squfur + Carbon NaCr2O7:2H20; Na2S203:5H20;
Na2SO3; MgSO4:2H20; A12(S04):18H20
5. Source of water supply     Duwes District Water Works
6. Montly war  use            1,500 M3
7. Use of Water               Cooling and leaning. Water is not used in chemical manufacure.
Discharge is not oonhaminated.
8. Water reuse                Cooling water is recirculated.
9. Treatmet                   None
10. Discharge                 Drainage channel. Does not enter sewer system.
11. Status                    Not operating.



-91-                                                      x  12
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SULY RRRABL1TATION PROJECT
Contrads For Project Im                ta
Fuianced    Procure-   B;ds/Pro-
Value     by DA        ment        posals    Contract    Conract
Contract Project Component      USS'0o     USS'000    Method        Invited    Signed    Comnpleted
A.      GOODS
GI.    Supply of Domestic                 132           0      IS        4/1219     6t295       9/195
Meters
G2.    Supply of                         1,658        126  ICB/IS/LS   7/11/94h1   10/27194   1215196ob
Equipment and
Materials
G3.    Supply of                          241         209      IS        218/93     313193      4/28/93
Equipment and
Materials (PPF)
B.      WORKS
WI.    Office                              60          30     LCB        6l29/93    8/13/93     1128194
Reonstructoa
(PPF)
W2.    Reservoir No. 2                    248         149     LCB        516196     8121/96     1/2198
Addition
W3.    Small works for                    228         137     LCB        6l29t95    10/2195     6P8199
Network
Maintenance
W4.    Sewage Collection                  38S         231     LCB       10/16197    212/98       1/4/99
Systems
C.      SUPPLY AND ERECT
SEI.   Distribution                      9,515      4.753      IC       8/10/94    11(9/94     12/31/97
System
Rehabilitation
SE2.   Pumping Station                   3,748      3,000      ICB       7/1/96     12/3/96     31?,3/99
Rehabilitation
D.      CONSULTANCIES
Cl.    instituional                       853         853     IDA        1124/94    5/3/94      3/31/98
Stengdiening                                       Guidelines
C2.    Feasibility Study                  660         324     IDA        8/12/92    71/27/93    10/21/92
--PF antd METAP)                                       es
bIitial conmact.
h/      Fina conrac.



Anwx 12                                                f-92-
Page 2 of 2
Pinnwxcd    Procure-   Bids/Pro-
Value     by DA        meWt       posals    Contract   Contract
Contact ProjectCompooet US$00Q    USO                 Metod       Ivited    Signed    Compled
C3.    Engineering Services             1.636      1.636     IDA       11/8/93    2/24194    8112199
Guidelines
C4.    Water Supply                       62         62      IDA       3/1199    9130199     4/16/99
Master Pln Updae                                  Guidelins
CS.    Sewage Master Pln                        9      )0   IDA        311199    4115199    9130199
Guideblnes



93 -Anmex 13
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed in Dollar
Category                     Equivalents)         % of Expenditures to be Financed
(1)    Works for Part A, C and            800,000           60%
E of the Project
(2)    Works for Part B of the
Projt:
(a)  for expenditures up to        2,000,000           100%
$2,000,000
(b) for expendiures
exceeding $2,000,000            500,000           60%
(3)  Wors for Parts D, and F              500,000           60%
of the Project
(4)  Goods for Part A, B, C and          4,400,000           100% of foreign expenditures and
E of the Project                                       100% of local expendimes (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures (off-the-shelft)
(5)  Goods for Parts D and F of           300,000           100% of foreign expenditures and
the Project                                            100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures (off-the-shel)
(6)  Consulta' services,                 1,000,000           100%
training and project related
foreign travel for Parts A,
B, C and E of the Project
(7)  Consultants' serces,                  100.000           100%
aning and project related
foreign travel except for
Parts D and F of the Project
(8)  Refunding of Project                1,500,000          Amount due
Preparation Advance
(9)  Unallocated                          500,000
TOTAL                              11,600,000



- 95-                                           Annex 14
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REfHAAIIILATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly           Cumulative Disbursement
Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter Ending    (US$ million    S   i               of Total
FY94           June 94                  0.2               0.2               2
FY95           September 94             0.2               0.3               3
December 94              0.4               0.8               7
March 95                 0.4               1.2               10
June 95                  0.4               1.6               14
FY1996         September 95             0.4               2.1               18
December 95              0.4               2.6               22
April 96                 0.4               3.0               26
June 96                  0.6               3.7               32
FY1997         September 96             0.6               4.4               38
December 96              0.4               4.9               42
April 97                 0.4              5.3                46
June 97                  0.4               5.8               50
FY1998         September 97             0.4               6.3               54
December 97              0.4               6.7               58
April 98                 0.4               7.2               62
Ju'x 98                  0.6               7.9               68
FY1999         September 98             0.6               8.6               74
December 98              0.4               9.0               78
April 99                 0.4               9.5               82
June 99                  0.4              10.0               86
FY2000         September 99             0.4              10.4               90
December 99              0.2              10.7               92
April 00                 0.2              10.9               94
June00                   0.2              11.1               96
FY2001         September 00             0.2              11.4               98
December 00              0.1              11.5               99
April 01                 0.1              11.6              100



-97-                                     Annex 15
Page I of 11
ALBANI4
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REABIULITATION PROJECT
Financial Projections
General
1.    This Annex contains the historal financial statement of the Duires Distict Water
Works (DDWW) and financial projections of their exted performance under the project.
Also included are the assumptions on which the projections are based. The data is presented
in the following tables:
Table 15A.1: Actual and Forecast Dun-es District Water Works Water Production
and Sales
Table 1SA.2: Actual and Forecast Durres District Water Works Tariffs
Table 15A.3: Forecast Duunes District Water Works Subsidiary Loan Lending Rates
for Water
Table 15A.4: Forecast Dunes District Water Works IDA Service Charges and Fees
for Sewerage
Table 15A.5: Actual and Forecast Durres District Water Works Income Statements
Table 15A.6: Acual and Forecast Dun-es District Water Works Balance Sheets
Table 15A.7: Actual and Forecast Dumes District Water Works Sources and
Application of Funds Statements
Assmpions
2.    The financial statements are in accordance with intrnational accounting standards.
3.    All financial projections are presented in US$ Dollars at current prices, i.e. inchlding
an allowance for inflation at 3.1% p.a. throughout the projection period. The following US$
Dollar conversion rates have been used: 1991 US$ 1 = Lek 14.6; 1992 US$ 1 = Lek
62.5; and 1993 US$ 1 = 100.0.
4.    The financial yea runs from 1st January to 31st December.
5.    The total population in Annex Table IA.2 reflects the results of the demand study
carried out by the feasibility study consultant. The difference in the existng population
served, about 20,000, reflects a more conservative approach for estimatng sales based on the
number of accounts and number of persons served now on DDWW's books. The future
incmrease in population served is based on a conservative estmate of DDWW's capability to
expand the system ra    than the expected needs. Water sold is based on estimates of
metered consumption for DDWW's industial, commercial and institutional customers and
the DDWW's percapita flat rate billing system for domestic c ption.  n genal,
industi, commercial and institutional consumption is exected to decrease for the first two
years after the installation of meters and then gadually increase dweafter. Domestic sales



A&x 15                                      -98 -
Page 2 of 11
are expected to increase as the quality of service increases and consumers billed at a
percapita rate of 50 lIcd and 100 I/cd are billed at the maximum rate of 150 I/cd (customers
with 6-24 hr/day service). Eventually, as meters are installed, per capita sales are expected
to drop as customers conserve water in order to minimize their water charges. Metered
percapita domestic sales assume 80 l/cd use.
6.    DDWW will set water tariffs and other charges which will satisfy the fmancial
objective of a minimum working ratio of 60% by 1994, which would be gradually reduced
teraftr. The working rato is defined as direct operating expenses divided by operating
revenue.
7.    Revenue will be derived from continued direct charges to users of DDWW's services:
a.    Water Sales - based on differential tariffs between consumer categories. In
order to satisfy the financial objective set out in Item 6 above, average tariffs
will be increased in terms of current prices as follows:
Category               93-94       94-95        95-96       96-97        97-98
Domestic                56%         0%          20%          3%           3%
Industrial             146%         0%           9%          10%          0%
Gov't & Commercial     248%         0%           0%          3%           0%
Sales to Kavaja         0%          7%           7%          6%           6%
Average                100%         -7%          7%          3%           1%
b.    Kavaja bulk supply - charged at DDWW's marginal costs for supplying this
water to Kavaja.
c.    Water connections - related to the numbers of new connections at an average
unit cost of US$115, which has been inflated at the projected rate of inflation.
8.    Bad debts on water billings are 10% in 1994; 9% in 1995; 8% in 1996; 7% in 1997
and 5% thereafter.
9.    Depreciation allowances were calculated on the following bases:
a.    Existing assets - historical value.
b.    Ongoing investment in the distribution network will continue throughout the
projection period as follows: $50,000 per annum in 1993 - 1999; $180,000 in
2000; and $200,000 in 2001. Thcse investnents are assumed to have an asset
life of 30 years and will not be revalued during the projection period.



99                                            Annex 1S
Page 3 of ll
c.     Proposed Project - for the new assets, the depreciation allowances were
calculated on a straight-line basis without annual revaluation, using the
following asset lives:
30 years:     Civil works (water sources, transmission mains, booster pumps
and distribution network)
15 years:     Mechanical and electrical equippment (water sources, booster
pumps and distribution network)
10 years-   Meters and metering, equipment for: operatons, maintenai X,
workshop and store, and adstation.
5 years:      Vehicles.
10.   Operating expenses were prepared in early 1993 constant prices based on two sources
of information: (a) the 1993 Budget estimatks; and (b) the estimated incremental costs for
staff, electricity, chemicals for chlotination, fuel, raw materials and spare parts. The
incremental requirements are estimated as folows in relation to the increase in water
production and the reduction in non-revenue water:
Year
1994    1995    1996    19S7     1998
Staff- Admin.        no.                           20      20       20      20       20
Electricity          million kwh                            3.7      3.7     3.7      5.3
chemicals           tons                                    5.0      5.0     5.0     12.0
Fuel                 000 liters                    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0      30.0
Raw Materials        USS000                                70.0    70.0    70.0      70.0
Spare Parts          US$S000                        5.0    15.0    15.0    15.0      15.0
The unit prices for these incremental components ar:
Staff - admin.       US$35 per month per employee
Electricity          US$0.018 per kwh   (IA 1.8 per kwh)
Chemicals            US$0.54 per kg    (Lek 54 per kg)
Fuel                 US$0.25 per liter    ,Lek 25 per liter)
An inflation rate of 3.1 % p.a. was applied to all operating expenses with the exception of the unit
cost of electricity and staff costs. Increases in these cost items are influenced more by govemment
decree than by market forces. Therefore they are unpredictable. For this reasons water ta     will
be indexed to future increases in electricity and worker salaries. By not including any increases in the
financial projections, it will be easier to correct them for comparison with real numbers in the fiture.
11.   Interest charges are as folows:
1993 to 1999 - intest charges to cover IDA's and GOA's soft loan conditions, i.e. service
charge of 0.75% p.a. and a commitment fee of 0.5%.



Ai.x15                                         -100 -
Page 4 of 11
2000 onwards - to cover the full onlending conditions, i.e. an interest rate of 7% p.a. and a
repayment period of 25 ynears mcluding six years grace. The payment of interest and
principal is based on constant annual principal repayments.
12.   Taxes are set at 30% of net income after depreciation and interest charges.
13. The balance sheets for 1991 and 1992 are based on DDWW's records. The balance sheet for
1993 is a broad estimate based on partial information supplied by DDWW.
14.   Accounts receivable are set at the following levels: 60% for 1994 and 1996; 55% for 1996;
and 50% for 1997; 45% for 1998 and 1999; and 40% thereafter.
15.   Inventories are set at 1.5% of fixed assets in operation in 1994; 2.0% in 1995; and 2.5%
thereafter.
16.   Long term debt consists of future borrowing less principal repayments. The assumed loan
conditions are as follows:
a.    The IDA Credit is made to GOA; GOA in turn on-lends via a subsidiary loan
agreement hmds to DDWW for the water project. Since GOA wishes DDWW to
supervise constuction of the sewerage project, the IDA and GOA sewerage funds will
also flow to DDWW but without a subsidiary loan agreement.
b.    For the IDA Credit the interest and commitment fees are set fourth in item 11 above.
Both the IDA Credit and the source of the GOA loan have terms of 40 years,
nluding 10 years grace. Principal repayments for years 11 through 20 are at 2% of
the total credit/loan amount, and principal repayments for years 21 through 40 are at
4% of the total credit/loan amount.
c.    The subsidiary loan uses IDA funds of US$9.42 million and GOA finds of US$3.64
million. The grace period is for the fill project implementation period tenninating on
December 31, 1999. Principal repayments are at 5.26% per annum of the total loan
amount for 19 years beginning in the year 2000.
17.   Accounts payable are set at the following levels: 43% of operating expenses for 1993; 25%
for 1994; and 17% (i.e. 2 months of operating expenses) from 1995 onwards.
18.   Loans represent borrowing according to the proposed financing plan and the requfiements of
the investment schedule.
19.   Applications of capital expenditre represent the planned phasing of the proposed investment
program.
20.   Debt service represents payment of principal and interest on the debt incurred from the
proposed inveme.



-101-
pap S of 11
TABLE lSA.I: ACTUAL AMD FoRuCAs DURES DISTRCT WATU Worn
WATERt ftoDucrioN AmD SAE
391 1992   193     3 19     199591 19       19 19   1998I   199     200     200
TOTAL POPULA1TON       (0)      167.0  175.0   154.0   193.0   201.0   210.0   219.0   22.0   237.0   246.0   234.0
Servd Pop"=do by HO$of oSuvlcs
6.24 lb Servkc: ISO Led  (000)    -     33.0    33.0    33.0    47.5    61.2    73.9    84.7    99.5   1104   116.3
2- GHzkSevr Ice:14011  (000)      -    103.0   103.0   103.0    94.7    84.3    73.8    63.3    42.2    21.1       0.
0- 2 HkServics  50 VW    (p30)    -      15.0    16.6    18.3    13.7     9-1    4.6      0.0     0.0     0.       00
Mm*eid Servi           (000              0.0     0.0      0.      0.0     3.0     7.0    13.0   2110    33.0    SU.
TOWt                   (000             151.0   1526   154.3   15.9   157.6   159.3   161.0   162.7   164.5   166.3
PrcperdooSuai          (%)              SU6.     12*    79.9    77.2    73.0    72.7    70.6    68.6    66.    43.3
WATIR SUPPLY CONNBCTIONS
Deomuad                (atr)      -    32000   32343   3261    3301    3339    3375      4 34   344 34  348m6   3524
1ndamrw                ()                 so8     Ss      19      94      99      103     108     112     117    1in
Gowzuuut               (so -              8       84     8a       91      94       98     101    lo$      la$    1I2
coacuId                (tr)oo0    114                    129      138     1157    172     186     200     215     234
TowE(a                                 32260   3262$   3299    33365   33746   34129   34516   3900   3530    35714
DOlMgslcCONSUMP1ION
Av.PerCapibmCams                          el1)6   75     104     110      116     I20    124      128     In9     129
AvJH Sin- Utbaae   (tr)           4.3    4.3     4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3     4.3     4.3     4.3     4.3     4.3
- Rodamaes               5.2    5.2     5.2     5.1     5.2     5.2      5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2
Doa  Wz  W    Saes
624 Hr SezvlceISO Ltd(M aonSl)                 - -1.8           2.6     3.4     4.1     4.6     5.5      6.1     6.4
2- 6RHr sevlw toOId  (MSu s)   -       -       -        3.7     3.4     3.0     2.7     2.3     1.       0       0.0
0.2 it savul so 51. 1637. -1       N      -            0.3     093     0.2     0.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
terui SOMWicW 1a0 jOO           -        .              0.0     0.0     0.1     0.2    0.       0.6     1.4      is
Dome .6, a             (uS na    3.4    3.4    .4.        5.9     6.3     6.7     7.0     73      7.6     7.8     7.$
HsiUWaSeWN             (.3mO)   4.0    4.0       3.8     2.8      2.8     3.0     3.2     3.4     3Q0     3.7     3*
G.W,g&Ccomm.ercalWas  (MiS mi    3.8    3.8       3.6     3.0     3.0     3.1     3.2     3.3     S.4     3.5      3.6
Kavwas Sal             (  mli)   20    2.0       2.2     2.2      2.2     2.2     2.2     2.4     2.0     2.0     2.4
Taw w     Sal          (03  l    13.2   13.2    13.8    13.8    143      14.9    13.6   16.4   16.9    17.4    17.7
Wauaduemi              033aft   24.9   24.9    24.9    24.9    265    26?5       26.7    26.S   261      26.3   26.5
ueai er                (.3 -0 11.7   11.7    11.1    11.1    12.3    11.6    105    10.1          9.6     9.1 
PuII Uui Waur          (%)       47.0   47.0    447    4444 46.2    43.7           3    38        3      34.4    43



Annex AS                                                           -102 -
Page 6 of 11
TABLE 1SA.2: ACrUAL AND FORCaST DuREs Dwr   WATER WOP
TAZW
D 50                    (St1.) 1.9    0.02 1.99    0.05               O   0.060   0.0      0.061   06"    001   0.07
im                      (SS        0.142  0.a    Q155   0.40    0400   04           A440   0.440   0.45    0.450    4O0
GM%.& C4mhI             (M ) 0.072 0 .0           0Q6    0.0Q0   00    0.          0.1O   0.319   0410   0910   0.210
3aImbKawJs             (USSAS) 0.054  0.02n    0n    0.070   0.075   0.05   0.015   O0   00S   0.1oo   0.105
CONSrAU{19l IM P 8S
Ass                     (US$.a)   -                        1      0       0.17.   0.12   0.167   0.16   0.164          16
Do .                    (US$1o)                           0.048  0.047   0.05    0.055   0.055   0          0.0U5 Q   05f
l.1W                    (USSh      .                      0.3-    0.376   0.597   0.59   0578   0375   0.            0#
GWt& c-.. h                                               O.1   O.3    074   0-274   0.2            0.      0.20   0.2
Sabmt    *              (     5                           o Q0611 Q071 0on     to7n   o    .on      0.079 on   11 08 02



- 103 -
Annex 15
Page 7 of 11
TABLE 1SA.3: FoREcAST DuRRtEs DwmUCr WATR WoRKs
SUBSIDIARY LOAN LENDING RATE FOR WATER (US$'OOO)
_                ~~~~1994    199S   1996  1W    198   1999      209      01      202      00     TA
SUBSIDLAR  LOMUCEBIlTI
IDA  Suhaay La         3185    2632   227      1600   72      503       O       0       0       0   1071
WA F "*PnCdMt          1511    1628    420       27     2       0       0       0       0       0    3638
O0AREPAYMNTOM IDA ( @tCr.dl
Sovekchae               t0      34     52       61    75      79      s8      so       8       s0      9
comni,ukb    B%         70      31     19        9      3      1       0       0       0        0     133
pztncid                  0       0      0        0      0     -0       0       0       0        0       0
TOTAL                  s0      65      71       76    79     80        0              80      60     772
CkA REPAYMN TO PO)R7N LENDU
Segvica Clta             6      21     25       27    27      2?      27      27      27       27     263
canjDn_Imn             14       7      1        0      0      0       0       0       0        0      22
rincbip                  0       0      0        0      0      0       0       0       0       0        0
TOTAL                  20      2       2       27    27      27       27      2?      27             26S
TOTAL P.PAYM SI
S.vicc Chug             16      SS     77       94  l0      107     10t     108      10to    l0      63
c     emmkkamsFc.       84      38     20        9      3      1       0       0       0        0     155
Pdbd                     0       0      0        8      0      0       0       0       0        0       0
TOTAL                 100                      to 96  1  106    t07_ 108     103     108     103   lw
DDWW SUBIDIARY LOAN BNAYMBNI TO GOA
In_ra- Was              166     S46    826    1001  1095   113       1134    1076    1019     962    896
Pdu    -Wnw              0        0      0        0     0      0      718     718     718     718    270
S.b*oW                166     S46    826    1001  1095   1136    185t    1794    1736    1679   1183
GOAE uWk                66      453    729      89S   989   1029        0       0       0       0    4163
TOTAL                 160     9n       98     1to    106    107    1851    1794    1736    1679    7667
TOTALC ARGES            100      93     98      103   106    10       103      103     103     106    1037



-104-
Annex 1S
Page 8 of 11
TABLE 15A.4: FORECAST DUE DRIscr WATER WORKS
IDA SERVICE CHARGES AN FEES FOR SEWERAGE (US$'000)
1999   1995  t996   1997 t99n  m99     e 2000   2  202   20nu    no W
DIBUEMMS
tMAS"uAlMt7a       0          3f5l    215  250    0      0     0      0     0    US
GOAFa,dpCMeI        0    320   44       0    0    0       0     0      0     0    S4
00A MIPAYMERTTOmDA
Ser4osq.           0      0    2       4    6    7       7     7      7     7    45
Ccinmummt Fee       4      4    S       2    1    0       0     0      0     0    14
P4*Pd          0~   0    0         0    0    0      0      0      0     0      0
TOAL               4      S    5       6    6    7       7     7      7      7    59
OOA WAYEW TO ORRON CUUDlTOR
sezvisemrp         0      1    3       S       s S       5     5      5  S        25
PthuIps             0      0    0       0    0    0       0     6      0     0      0
SOAL               2      2    S       S    S    S        3              _        26_
TOTAL RWAYTfI
sawismp             a      1    4       7    S    9       9     9      9     9    a
cU.uh PU4           B      S    S       2    1    0       0   ')       0     0  O
PdNl*               0      0    0       0    0    0       0     0      a     0      0
TOTAL               6     7    a       S    9    9       9     9      9     9    33



- 105 -
Page 9 of 11
TABLE 15A.S: ACTUAL FORECAST DURRES DEmmcr WATER WORKS
INCOME STATEMNT (US$'000 EXCEr AS NOTED)
1991    199      199     194    1995    159         199?    199       19      230      2301
OPIRAIN   RBV3IUE
Wgsr3aji- Domedo                    2a5      110      210      2W      514      59       453      46?      Soo      52      5s8
- IuowwIut                so8              590    1t2       1          N     148    1479    19    1465    1751
*GS vIAC..uRD             274    214       310      900      910     no        9      Im       14    too5    111
-uv UkSqg*                            48      6        TO      1        1S      14       184      217      229  t41          2 i
Wg  _C4UglaM                           0       0        0       44      45       43       5D       52       A        57       60
06.0de                                        48       70        0       0        a0       0        0        0        0        0
Tainl0gmatlug b iw                  1185    1102    1250    2509    2542    285         306      323      5426    557       372
OPRAIlNO MUJNS
saw" & w.p                           29      1n       140      148      148     148    t1o        t        148      148      14
akdd                                 us8   699        780     866      866      962      Oa       942      942      042      go
U_h&S 8pU.                            21       7      110      124      128     132      136      186      19                204
5(ajlummos                             0       0        0       77     o90       95       9        99      10      t105     0t9
C4mcUea.m                              0       0        0      44       45       48       so       S2       54       57       o
A_wkWnm                               X14     21       48      49       S        is       54       56                59       61
ago"                                   0       0        0      156     210      211      t98      148      157      1t       m
T41 CIA vEwu                        1069    890    1078    146         13      U126    1624    1651    142    1675    164
D 'tui1a                             171      40       75      19"     84       492      591      626    6i9        6        d5
Opwmhiaaamw(D *                      -57    172        97       St     649      758      85L      991    1134    1258    1S1
0I_dAar.                               a       0        0      1"66     546      n26    toot    1095    1156    1154    t076
Ngbca )(Dd4                          4S7    172        9?      s5      to0        8     -148     -114       -2      12       305
1T .                                   0      52       29      206       51       4        1        2       t        St       91
G.wn"E   C.siiUauaSa.                 S7       0        0       66     455      729      898      989    1029         0        0
NgIaom(Dsflai@aflhrIbz                 0     120       68      545     526      4        749      873    1027        87      213
OPu Adu o               (1)         ls       a        92       66       74      74       7n      170       67       65       63
We*bI Ro                 (S)          go      81       86       SI      61       57       55       so       a        4?       45



- 106 -
Annex 15
Page 10 of 11
TABLE 15A.6: ACFUAL AND FORECAgr DURREs DisrcT WATER WORKS
BALANCE SHEETS (US$l'0O EXCEPT AS NOTED)
AcUW    P     jdFm
-- V91   1992-   199     I        1"S     19"6    199       19      199      2        2001
ASSEMS
FAzed A.ets
Fued Asff inpftW4=                 7390   1741    1108    66M6   121S    S 156   17918   18980   19379   19559    19759
1t. Acmunla    Dqe.factia          3377    854       609     80      11S7    1649    2239    2S65    3504    4150    4803
Not Fald Ami                       4013    887       499    584   10078   13507   15749   16115   1S873   15409   1496
Walk ia ;hasrSwewge Paweat            7       2        0       0      482      967    1236    I545    154                   0
Tal Fixd Ami                       402M    889       499    5834   10560   14474   1698S   17660   17420   15409   14956
Curr_aAsm_ll
C .hudaBm                             7      3S       12    10       211      345     494    188       3385    3330    3217
Account Recivb                      S48    469       625    1U0    1525    142         1534    1457    1542    1430    1491
1avaty                               89      22       17      tO0     225      3.9     450      47S      484      489     494
0dM                                 16S    10S        66
TotIlCougetAsa%                     809    631       720    1338    1961    214S    2477    3SIS    S411    S250    5292
1DTALASSMTS                        4829   1520    1219    7172   12521   16619   194I2   21475   22831   20659   20158
1AULhEI AND EQUrTI
c$apl                              4103    9S2       615    1160    1686    2329    3078    3951    4978    5065    S28
EuiW Cm*m_s-WaI                    349    173        97     849    1138    135        tS53    1657    1679    1679    1679
ToldCapk                           4452   112S       7:2    2009      84    3684    4631        608    6657    6744    69S7
Lms Tem Del
S3wmma L h  (MA)                      0       0        0    31S    5817    8088    9688   10412   10715   10179    9644
Supplm l Lo (GOA)                     0       0        0    1511    3139    3609    3636    3638    3638    3456    3274
smwltsvelmmat
IDAcred                             a       0        0        0      60      420      635     8S5      8s         0        0
a" AobtpPFunds                      0       0        0       0      320      364      364     364      364        0       0
GOAL 1mIFums                        0       0        0        0     102      l83      237     296      296        0       0
TeLoagTarDebt                         0       0        0    4696    9438   12664   14560   15595   159M    16"    12918
A ecou   _P VW"                     247    317       458     466      259      272     271      272      276     279      283
Oue                                 130      78       49       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
TU CurvIlleblle                     577    39S       S07     466      259      m       271       m       276     279      28
TOTALAII UI1 AND EQUITY    4829   1520    1219    7172   12S21   16619   19462   2147S   22831   20659   20158
Cutrnt Ro                            2.1    1.6      IA       2.9     7.6      7.9      9.1    14.0    19.6    188        ISA
Dbe4qay Rati  (X)                         .        -         70.0    77.0    77.5    75.9    73.6    70.S    619         65.0



-107-
Anmex 15
Page 11 of 11
TABLE 15A.7: ACrUAL Am FORECAST iuRs D  Dcr WATER WORKS
SOURCES AND APPlcATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS (US$'OO)-
.1991   1992    199     1994    1995    1911    19       1995    1999      00  
SORC OF FUNDS
"b.Lwm      b&iut wrSw             -57    120      a      648     618      40      W2      979    113    122D    12119
Dupscio.                          171      40      75     193      34      492     59      626       39     646     63
htmus lF1.w                       -114    160     143     339      97     1232    1443    105    1774    t1"6    1942
IDMASJCSCqmkmMWLaw                  0       0       0    46       4260    2741    162      726      303       0       0
TOW im                              0       0       0    4696    42       2741    1627      725     303       0       0
Gae_wame     ftC4sbbdlOt            0       0       0     31       144    1W27    1        1152    102I       0       0
ToblSoaiom of P4m                  114    160     143    635      607     4999    4220    3481    S106   1I6G    1941
APSUCAlION OF FUNDS
CpM KywAdb
Pg_onduifg                          0       0       0    S471    4549    3        27#      942      349       0       0
A_I    Semg                         0       0       0       0     482      485     26      30e        0       0       0
_ 1_stIav                         18S      14      20      50       58      50      50      50       50     to0     200
IDAIASAClSqiplnmdlL&=               0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0     'AS     711
OlISeLM.                            0       0       0       0        0       *       *       a       *        *       *
TaW1 _~1nai~m1bpgpmab               0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0     718     718
~~~ -
MAMOAwpkma 1 Lo                0       0       0      166     544     326    1001    1096    I13      113     1076
TiPdnc_                             0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0
TWhaI  uaws_ye                      0       0       0      166     546     826    1U010lt          1136   1t14    1076
T etb1DkS.*                         0       O 0     0     166      56      t26    101       t5    113      185     1794
WoMpt. C.gbl                      -71    146     125     658      932     232     31     139      157      15      -a
Tab! AppNode ofPop                 114    10      143    4352    6077    4999    4220   S3         3106    136    192



-109 -                                   A        16
Page 1 Af 4
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHAELITATION PROJECIT
Implementto  Pla
Approx hmat Dats   Activity     -mplme_bg Ageny
11/28193           Contact project design and     PIU/DD;WW
wpervision contant
12115/93           Staff PIU                      DDWW
12/24193           Prepare project                PIU/Consultats
imp,lttion manwal and
st up project account
1118194            Train PI  Staff                PIU/ConsQLta
4125194            Sign subloan agreement         MOC/DDWW
4/30/94            IDA Credit becomes             MOC/DDWW/IDA
effective
4130/94            Select twinnig partner for     DDWW
TA
5/31194            Implement Action Plan for      DDWW
the Insutional
Strengtening of DDWW
6130/94            Begin sellin water to          DDWW/MOC
Kavaja at its margin  cost
7/31/94            Contact twn   partner          DDWW
for TA
11/15/94           Prepare net year's             DDWW
budget, calculat tariff
requement and send to
IDA quarterly financial
repert
12/31/94           Combine DCSW and SSW          DCSW/SSW
to form DDSW
1/15/95            Implement Action Plan for      DDWW
the I _s,tu,onal
Sengtfg o DDSW
1/23/95            Contract project auditors     PIU
satisfctory to ID)A



Annex 16                                   - 110-
Page 2 of 4
Approximate Dates  Activity                                  Agency
2115/95            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly fiacial report
3/15195            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU/DDWW
semi-annual report
5/15195            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly financial report
6/30/95            Audit DDWW accounts,          PIU/DDWW
project accounts, special
account, SOE accounts and
local funds account for
previous year and send
report to IDA
8/15/95            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly financial report
9/15/95            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU/DDWW
semi-annual report
11/15/95           Prepare next year's           DDWW
budget, calculate tariff
requirement and send to
IDA quarterly fnancial
report
2/15/96            Prepare and send to IMA       PIU/DDWW
quarterly financial report
9/15/96            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU!JDWW
semi-annual report
3/15/96            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU/DDWW
semi-annual report
5/15/96            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU/DDWW
quarterly financial report
6130196            Audit DDWW account,           DDWW
project accounts, special
account, SOE accounts and
local funds account for
previous year and send
report to IDA
8/15/96            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly financial report
9/15196            Prepare and send to IDA       PIU/DDWW
semi-anual report



- Ill -
Page 3 of 4
Approximate Dates  Activity                     Implementing Agency
11/15/96           Prepare next year's          DDWW
budget, calculate tariff
requirement and send to
IDA quarterly financial
report
2115/97            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly financial report
3/15197            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
semi-annual report
5/15/97            DDWW to prepare and           DDWW
send to IDA quarterly
fimancial report
6/30197            Audit DDWW accounts,          DDWW
project accounts, special
account, SOE accounts and
local funds account for
previous year and send
report to IDA
8/15/97            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
quarterly fiancial report
9/15/97            Prepare and send to IDA       DDWW
semi-annual report
11f15197           Prepare next year's           DDWW
budget, calculate tariff
requirement and send to
IDA quarterly financial
report
Annually on 2/15    Prepare and send to IDA      PIU/DDWW
unit Credit closing   quarterly finacial report
Anmually on 3/15    Prepare and send to IDA      PIU
unit Credit closing   semi-annual project
implementation report
Annually on 5/15    Prepare and send to IDA      PIU/DDWW
unit Credit closing   quarterly financial report



Annex 16                                  -112-
Page 4 of 4
Approximate Dates  Activity                    Implementing Agency
Annually on 6/30    Audit DDWW accounts,        PIU/DDWW
unit Credit closing   project accounts, special
account, SOE accounts and
local funds account for
previous year and send
report to IDA
Annually on 8115    Prepare anid sed to IDA     PI/DDNWW
unit Credit closing   quarterly financial report
Armually on 9/15    Prepare and send to IDA     PIU
unit Credit closing   semi-annual project
implementation report
Annually on 11/15   Prepare and send to IDA     PIU/DDWW
unit Credit closing quarterly financial report,
next year's budget and
next year's tariff
requirement
Six months after    Prepare Project             PIW
Credit closing     Completion Report



ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule by Contract
,______2_____ _  _u _  "  Jul                                 -                     - N o  J-
WS Rs" wftsks SAdUo                                             - -
41I  II  of MakNe ande
SIMIUOIft.hof bNaem
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
___    __    __C_       --. ---         -           -----n--_                             W        _ w 
-SNltg    _  --- 1* 3'  .WIE
;*    Stan df ?psth



-115 -                                            Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY RERBIUTATION PROJECT
Project Targets and Monitoring lIdicatrs
Year       -
Target/Indicator      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001
Production (m3 mln)          24.9      27.0     27.0      27.0     27.0     27.0       27.0      27.0
Domestic Sales (m3 mln)
6 to 24 hours          1.8      2.6      3.4       4.1      4.6      SS        6.1       6.4
2 to 6 hours           3.7      3.4      3.0       2.7      2.3       1.5       0.8       0.0
O to 2 hours           0.3      0.3      0.2       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Meered                 0.0      0.0      0.1       0.2      0.4       0.6       1.0       1.5
Industral Sales (m3 mhn)     2.8      2.8       3.0       3.2      3.4      3.5       3.7        3.9
Government & Commercial       3.0       3.0      3.1       3.2      3.3       3.4       3.5       3.6
(m3 min)
Kavaj Sales                   2.0       2.2      2.2       2.2      2.4      2.4        2.4       2A
(m3 mln)
Non-Revenue Watr              11.2     12.8     12.1      11.4     13.8      13.3      12.8      12.5
(m3 min)
Non-Revenue Water as % of    45.1     47.2      44.7      42.4     45.8     44.0       42.5      41.3
Poducon (%)
Domestic Accounts (nr '000)
6 to 24 hours                 7.0      10.1     13.0      15.7     18.0     21.2       23.5      24.7
2 to 6 hours                 21.9      20.1     17.9      15.7     13.5       9.0       4.5       0.0
Oto 2 hours                    3.9      2.9      1.9       1.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
Metered                       0.0       0.0      0.6       1.5      2.8      4.5        7.0      10.6
Idustrial Accouns (nr)
Metered                44        70      103       108      108       112       117       122
Nee-Metered            45        24        0         0        0        0          0         0
Goveroment & Commetcial
Accounts (nr)
Metered                60       110      157       172      186       215       215       234
Non-Metered            69        28        0         0        0        0          0         0
Disconnections (nr)
Reconnecdons (or)
Meters Instaled or Replaced     0       80       700      900    1.300    1,700       2,600     3,600
(ulr)
Eectricity Consupntion (Kwh  433       43.3     47.1I     47.1     47.1      47.1      47.1      47.1
min)
Domestic Tariff (SJm3)      0.050    0.050    0.060      0.062    0.064    0.066      0.068     0.070



AauLa                                          - 116-
Page 2 of 2
Year
Targ randctr           1994      1995     1996      1997      l998      1999      2000       2001
n4ustrTariff (M3)            0.400    0.400      0.435      0.44      0.44     OAS        0.45       0.45
Government & Commercial      0.300    0.300      0.300     0.310     0.310    0.310      0.310      0.310
Tariff (1m3)
Kavaja Tardff ($13)  -0.070    075               0.080 - - - 0.08S  0190.    0.095       O.I00    _0. 105
WorknRatik (u )                 60        59       57         53       50        48         47        45
Bad Debts ($' 000)             156       215       211       198       148      157        164        171
Intemal Invest     ($' 000)     SO        50       S0         S0       S0        S0        180       200
Billings (' 000)             2,427    2.598      2.856     3,068     3.237    3,426      3,576      3.728
Total Receivables (S' 000)    1,001    1,409     1.421     1,534     1,457     1.S42     1,430      1,491
Employees. (nr)                315       315       315       315      315       315        315       315
wage & Salay Expense           148       148       148       148       148      148        148        148
($'000)
ElectricityBExeo (S' 000)      866       866       942       942      942       942        942       942
Debt Repaymen (' 000)
bnrest Chuages         166       546       826     1,001     1,095     1,136     1,134      1.076
Pdncia                   0         0         0         0        0         0        718       718
Deprecition Expese ($' 000)    197       365       S02       601      636       650        656       663
Fird Assets in Operaion      6,726    11,525    15,446    18,278    19,270    19.669    19,849    20,049
i' 000)



- 117 -
Ah 12
ALBANIA
DtRE WATER SUPPLY REIABILITATION PROJECT
Cost and Benef Streams for Rate of Retun Calcuaton
WATER SUMLE M (00 3)               ECONOMIC COSTS
With  WVIhwa                         Co(ncc-              Tetal    roxss       Net
Yam     Proet   Project  lacse          Cpil        tic    O&M       Co"   Bcfta  Davos
1994     1271S    12295       420        4K3         42      252     SIS7       164    -4994
199S     14330    11917      2343        3945        42      262     4249       683    -3566
1996     14940    11618      3252        3282        43      363     3687       930    -2758
1997     IS650    11396      4254        2251        43      363     2657      1207    -1456
1998     16470    Itill      S359         708        44      402      1154     is00      346
1M       16990    10833      6157         268        44      403      715      1715      1000
20o       1'7410    10562    6848            0       44      403      447      1902      1455
2001     17920    10298      7622            0       44      403      447      2111      1664
2002      18530    10298     8232            0       44      403      447      2275      1828
2003     19060    1029.      8742            0       44      403      447      2413      1966
2004      19650    10298     9352          160       44      403       607     2578      1971
2005     202       10298     9962            0       44      403      447      2743      2296
2006     20870    10298    10572             0       44      403      447      2907      2460
2007     21490    10298    11192             0       44      403      447      3075      2628
2008     22110    10298    11812             0       44      403      447      3242      279s
2009     22720    10298    12422          1955       44      403     2402      3407      1005
2010     22720    1021    12422              0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2011     22720    10298    12422             0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2012     22M       10298    12422            0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2013     22720    10298    12422             0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2014     22m       10298    12422          160        0      403      s63      3354      2791
2015     22720    10298    12422             0        0      403      403      33S4      2951
2016     22720    10298    12422             0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2017     22720    10298    12422             0        0      403      403      3354      2951
2018     22720    102        12422           0        0      403      403      3354      2951
INTERNAL RATE OFrRErN                              Water saes with th project are teW volumes used for tae fnaca
proCdt   though 2001. Volmes ftom 2002 tou  2009 assume an
1.  CUM                          10Co8 _Ia a   ceaSe of 3% per anumuntil u one                     dr watw r reahs
25% of existg produti  capcity.
Suuity Tab
-    Wsersale wiu he pwrj  assume DDWW repoed sales   1993
2. Coa +.10%                      9.21             reduced by 2.5% per anm through 1999 and no decase    eaftr.
3. C0lS -101217                                    Capl Wosts compre project costs, invesneats odter hn te project
4. Ben1l .10%                    12.01             and the cost of new conectiOs  ss cusUm    dutis md aaesm.
5. Dmellt -10%                    9.07
6. Danidba lewd 1 yer             9.05        -   O & M4 coss comprise sablies, electricity, mterils nd chemimals.
7.2at6                            7.83             Mectr     oss a  cal culated using the ecomc cost of 80.026 per
kWh.
-    Bdls ar dte incenta sale of wer vabued at cusa r
wiiess to pay of $0.26 per m3  bdseo as iblt* std sry
rmnd".



ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost Calculation
WATER SALES (000 m3)           ECONOMIC COSTS (USS 000)                                                                      Discount Ratc
With   Without                                                                                                          8%        10%       12%
Year    Ptoject   Project  Increase         Capital    O&M   TOTAL
:________________________________ __         NET PRESENT VALUE OF:
1994     12715      12295       420          4863        252      S1 Is             Incrementd Water Sales (000 m3)              77580    61964    50321
1995     14330      11987     2343           3945        262      4207             EconomicCostStream(USS000)                    17445     16124     15029
1996     14940     11688      3252           3282        363      3644
1997     15650      11396     4254           2251        363      2614            AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST (US$tm3)   0.225                0.260     0.299
1998     16470      11111      5359           708       402       1110
1999     16990    10833       6157            268       403        671
2000      17410    10562       6848              0       403       403
2001      17920     10298      7622              0       403       403                 Assumptions:
2002      18530     10298      8232              0       403       403                 -    Water sales with the project are the volumes used for the
2003      19040    10298       8742              0       403       403                      financial projections through 2001. Volumes from 2002
2004      19650     10298      9352            160       403       563                      though 2009 assume an annual increase of 3.%e per annum
200S     20260      10298      9962              0       403       403                      until unaccounted for water reaches 25% of existing
2006     20870      10298     10572              0       403       403                      production capacity.
2007     21490      10298     11192              0       403       403
2008     22110    10298       11812              0       403       403                 -    Water sales without the project assume D)DWW  reported
2009     22720      10298     12422           1955       403      2358                      sales in 1993 reduced by 2.5% per annum through 1999 and
2010     22720      10298     12422              0       403       403                      no decrease thereafter.
2011     22720      10298    .12422              0       403       403
2011     22720      10298   .12422               0       403       403                      Capital costs comprise project costs, investments other than
2012     22720      10298     12422              0       403       403                     the project and the cost of new connections, less customs
2013  22720  10298  12422  0      403                               ~~~~~~~~~~~duties and taxes.
2014     22720      10298     12422            160       403       563
2015     22720      10298     12422              0       403       403                 -    0 & M costs comprise salaries, electricitjy materials and
2016     22720      10298    12422               0       403       403                      chemicals. Electricity costs are calculated using the
2017     22720      10298    12422               0       403       403                      economic cost of $0.026 per kwh.
2018     220        10298     12422              0       403       403
. . .~~~~~~~~~~~



- 121 -                                  Annex 21
ALBANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION PROJEC.T
Selected Documents and Data in the Project Fie
1.    Detailed cost estimates
2.    Environmental Assessment
3.    Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project Feasibility Study, C. Lotti & Associati,
Rome and SEBA MESSTECHNIK, Klagenfurt, July 1993 (four volumes)
4.    Statistical Year Book of Albania, 1991
S.    Duffes Water Supply Project Study, Institute for Study and Design of Watter Supply
and Sewerage, Tirana, 1991 (in English)
6.    Albanian law on accounting
7.    Computer disk for financial projections in Lotus 123
8.    Computer disk for cost estimates in COSTAB (Windows version)



M JHE KUqE
,R!WN STAnoN
ALANIA
DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABIUTATION PROJECT
L -L A C
ff E    LA  C       -     t
UUAfMSTAIONRBBITTO             
AMAN
><      /\                               0
LII1   K                                                     \
4Mm
".j-.m
0  20        9     -320 g                                                                        -T
L.LrAI1
jWA Df 21                                                           K RU JA
z4      5~~TOVAT AR
OI 1,  2   ,    5  Ml
r-I          Tcs                                                                    I R\  A  N 
REP. 'Of '12
.y'  I   Q           \                                            I~~AAPA
All.. ~~ UFYRER                                               \ ,
A<Mrif<                              ,                      \    L/      ^ @
*SRAMg                                                S<      <^
t 4 0 ; } 1 3 1 5| {\fViAJ A
Cl, s | s < X e  -//At   /   \ \~~~~~~   T X R A N AAI
Gpl~K/y GREECE\ 
DU2s\fi,XsKZzf\  
1:,,s   'r''8_iS''''                                                            ,              '  .



