CREDIT NUMBER 2610 ALB
Project Agreement
(Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DURRES DISTRICT WATER WORKS
Dated,,                    1 ,i994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2610 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated .cLul    IIV                , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and DURRES
DISTRICT WATER WORKS (DDWW).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eight million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that DDWW agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DDWW, a portion of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
relent to DDWW on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS DDWW, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. DDWW declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
the Project Implementation Manual with appropriate administrative,
financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to


﻿- 2 -
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. DDWW shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and   schedules,  records  and   reports,  maintenance   and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A, B, C, and E of the Project.
Section 2.04. DDWW shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, DDWW shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DDWW shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A, B, C, and E of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   DDWW shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A, B, C, and E of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by DDWW of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Without limitation of the provisions of Sections
9.01 and 9.06 of the General Conditions, DDWW shall: (i) not later
than March 15 and September 15 of each year, prepare and furnish to
the Association semi-annual reports on the progress in imple-
mentation of Parts A, B, C, and E of the Project including a report
on its compliance with the covenants set forth in this Agreement and
the implementation of the DDWW Action Plan; and (ii) prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than February 15, May 15,
August 15 and November 15 of each year, a report on DDWW's financial
performance during the preceding three months.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. Not later than November 15 of each year, DDWW
shall prepare and submit to the Association for review and comment
its proposed budget and tariffs for the following year with
supporting financial projections.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DDWW
Section 3.01. DDWW shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
water supply and sanitary practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DDWW shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
water supply practices.
Section 3.03. During execution of the Project, the DDWW shall
maintain PIU, staffed with two engineers, a financial manager, three
field engineers and a staff assistant with experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. DDWW shall take all necessary actions as shall
be consistent to implement the DDWW Action Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DDWW shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   DDWW shall:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statement of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,   in  accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the  Association   shall  have  reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request, including internal
quarterly audits which shall consist of a
financial assessment and a physical inspection
of works in the field on a sample basis.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DDWW shall maintain a ratio of total operating expenses to
total operating revenues not higher than 60% in Fiscal Years 1994
and 1995 and 55% thereafter.
(b)   Before November 15 in each of its fiscal years, DDWW
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by DDWW and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that DDWW would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for DDWW's fiscal years
covered by such review, DDWW shall promptly take all necessary
measures  (including, without   limitation, adjustments   of  the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses  related   to  operations,  including


﻿- 5 -
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes.
(ii)    The  term  "total  operating  revenues" means
revenues from all sources related to operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree and until the Project has been completed, DDWW shall neither
commit itself to nor make any expenditures on new investments
outside the scope of the Project which would result in aggregate
capital expenditures exceeding $50,000 equivalent during any Fiscal
Year unless the Association has been furnished with satisfactory
evidence, that the proposed expenditures are economically and
technically justified and DDWW has obtained financing under terms
and conditions which will not materially and adversely affect its
financial condition or operations, including the carrying out of the
Project.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section the term "capital
expenditures" means expenditures for plant, machinery, equipment and
buildings.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
DDWW shall index its tariffs to its cost of salaries and electricity
using a formula satisfactory to the Association so that any
increases in the cost of these items would result in a compensating
increase in its average tariff for the next complete billing period
following the effective date of any such increase.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DDWW thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or


﻿- 6 -
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify DDWW of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-7-
For DDWW:
Ndermarja E Ujesjellesit
RR. Dalip Peza
Durres
Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DDWW, or by DDWW on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
its Director or such other person or persons as DDWW shall designate
in writing, and DDWW shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          t-A < rfA  C-  L7(/I-
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
DURRES DISTRICT WATER WORKS
Authorized Representative


﻿ii H


