Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16461
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALA WI
A GRICUL TURAL MARKETING AND ESTA TE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1966-MAI)
April 7, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv ULnitt= - Maiawi Kxxacha
US$1.00 = MK15.3 (March 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I to March 31
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Barbara Kafka
Technical Manager:       Sushma GanguLly
Staff Member:            Stanley Hiwa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADD                        Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC                     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AMED                       Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
CB                          Commercial Bank
CBM                        Commercial Bank of Malawi
DEMATT                     Development of Malawian Traders Trust
EAC                        Estates and Agro-industries Committee
GOM                        Government of Malawi
IACP                       Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project
IDA                        International Development Association
INDE Bank                  Investment and Development Bank
Indefund                    Small loan subsidiary of 1NDE Bank
LGDP                       Local Government Development Project
MBS                        Malawi Bureau of Standards
MC                         Marketing Committee
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOALD                      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOF                        Ministry of Finance
MOLG                       Ministry of Local Government
MPS                        Marketing and Pricing Section
MRFC                        Malawi Rural Finance Company
NBM                        National Bank of Malawi
PFI                        Participating Financing Institutions
RBM                        Reserve Bank of Malawi
SACA                       Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
SEDOM                       Small Enterprise Development Organization
SLA                        Subsidiary Loan Agreement
T'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I
I
I
I
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AIMLA WI
A GRICUL TURAL MARKETING AND ESTA TE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1966-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................                           ii
PART I.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1
A. Project Description .
B. Achievement of Objectives                               .2
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project                          .9
D. Project Sustainability .11
E. Bank Performance .13
F. Borrowers Performance .13
G. Assessment Of Outcome .13
H Future Operations .14
. Key Lessons Learned .14
Part II:   STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2.:    Related Bank Credit
Table 3.:    Project Timetable
Table 4.:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A.:  Project Costs
Table 8B.:  Project Financing
Table 9.:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.:   Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
Appendix A:  Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:  Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:  Miscellaneous Information
Appendix D:  Map



I
I



Implementation Completion Report
Malawi
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
(Cr. 1966-AL4I)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Marketing and
Estate Development Project in Malawi, for which IDA Credit 1966-MAI amounting to SDR14.2
million (US$19.8 million equivalent) was approved on December 1, 1988, and made effective on
June 9, 1989.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1996, six months after the original closing date. It was
fully disbursed. The last disbursement took place On August 27, 1996.
3.    This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program1
on behalf of the Agriculture Operations Division of the Eastern and Southern Africa Department
(AFTAI). The draft ICR was reviewed by Ms. Sushma Ganguly, (Technical Manager, AFTAI),
Mr. B. Van De Poll (Senior Agriculturist, AFTAl), and Mr. Steven Jaffee (Agribusiness
Specialist, AFTAI). The report is based on material gathered during a mission that visited
Malawi in April/May 1996, and on information from the project files, supervision reports, the
report and findings of the mid-term review, as well as on the findings from field investigations
and discussions with Bank and Government of Malawi (GOM) staff associated with the project.
GOM's contribution to the ICR is attached as Appendix B of this report. The Borrower also
facilitated the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, and by providing
substantive comments on the Mission's Aide-Memoire.
Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission Leader, FAO/CP), P.V.A. Rama Rao (Credit Specialist, Consultant).



I
I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALA WI
A GRICUL TURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1966-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since independence in 1964, the Government of Malawi has regarded the development of
the agricultural sector as a core element of its broader development strategy. The World Bank
group has been actively assisting this sector and, prior to the Agricultural Marketing and Estate
Development Project (AMED), financed 12 operations totaling US$173.3 million for agricultural
development in Malawi. The main components of the AMED project were to be the development
of a multi-channel system for marketing agricultural produce and inputs, an improvement in the
access of small estates to medium-term credit through existing credit channels, and the
strengthening of capacity within Govermment in project management and in the management of
marketing and pricing policy reform. This project reinforced previous IDA assistance in the
sector by introducing improvements in marketing and promoting crop diversification. The
project complemented other IDA supported initiatives in agricultural development that focused
on research, extension, and rural infrastructure.
Objectives
2.    The project's objectives were to: (i) improve agricultural marketing and increase rural
incomes; and (ii) improve resource utilization and productivity on estates, by providing medium-
term credit to intensify and diversify production. The project, designed to be implemented over a
seven-year period, included the following components:
(i)   credit for estate development, agro-industrial sub-projects and a pilot credit
scheme for rural merchants;
(ii)  institutional development; and
(iii) market infrastructure development.
3.    The actual project cost is estimated at US$25.4 million. The IDA credit of SDR 14.2
million, equivalent to US$19.8 million was fully disbursed. Other disbursements included GOM
US$0.4 million, Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) US$1.8 million, and Borrowers'
contribution US$3.4 million. All major legal covenants were fulfilled during project
implementation.



Implementation Experience
4.   Implementation record. The participating financial institutions (PFIs) lent a total of
MK1 6.1 million to eighty-six Borrowers for estate development. The bulk of this lending went
to large-scale estates who used the funds for land improvement, livestock, and the development
or rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure. Only seven loans, amounting to MK1.2 million, and
constituting only 7.5% of the total loans disbursed under the project, were approved for small
estates. The appraisal had envisaged MK24 million, or 33% of total targeted lending, to be
channeled to the small estates. The low disbursement of loans to small estates stemmed from a
combination of factors including previous high rates of loan defaults from this subsector, the
relatively high transaction costs incurred by the PFIs in servicing small estates, the absence of
acceptable collateral, and the narrow interest rate spreads stipulated under the project for such
loans. The only lending made to small estates using project funds was through Indefund, a
subsidiary of the Investment and Development Bank (INDE Bank), which was brought in as a
PFI about two years before project closure.
5.    With the slow disbursement of the credit to small estates there was concern about the
project not achieving its objectives in relation to employment generation and income distribution.
Therefore, in 1992 the GOM requested IDA to reallocate SDR 4.2 million to the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) to finance seasonal credit for smallholders as part of
the Government's drought recovery efforts. The DCA amendment which made this re-allocation
did not specify any repayment obligations by SACA to the Reserve Bank of Malawi. Very low
rates of repayment were achieved on the seasonal loans provided during the 1992/93 season as
that year's election campaign heavily politicized rural credit.
6.    Project funds were used to finance nine agro-industrial or agribusiness operations, with
loans totaling MK7.7 million against an appraisal target of MK12 million. These supported
investments in tree crop, oilseed, and dairy processing, and in floriculture. High financial rates of
retums were recorded for most of these ventures. These investments contributed to export
diversification and to some import substitution. The Small Enterprise Development Organization
(SEDOM) piloted a successful lending scheme for private traders. Starting with only six loans
worth MK 0.7 million in 1992/93, the scheme expanded to 342 loans, totaling MK 30 million by
1995/96. The loan recovery on this private trader loan scheme exceeded 90% throughout the
project period. A planned warehouse certification scheme was not implemented.
7.    The objectives that were set for institutional and market development components were
substantially achieved. The Pricing and Marketing Section (PMS) played an active role in
analyzing and reviewing policy options and advising the Government. The project also provided
a vehicle for linking up with other Bank operations to coordinate and continue policy dialogue on
market reform and price liberalization. Trading in all crops is now fully liberalized. The sole
exception is maize trading where state controls still remain on exports as part of the GOM's
policy to safeguard national maize availability. A Price Information System has been installed in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MOALD) which regularly collects and
disseminates price information on fiv& food crops and three livestock products. The price data
have been used by private traders to guide their decisions in locating their commodity buying or



iv
selling operations. The data were also used by MOALD to estimate gross margins as part of the
annual price review and price setting exercise. Extensive use of the price data in policy analysis
work is limited by sample weaknesses and by the continued understaffing of the section.
8.    The project, through MOALD, has trained over one thousand private traders on the
fundamentals of commodity trading and business management. Export quality contfol was
implemented through the Malawi Bureau of Standards (MBS) with the project funding
equipment, TA, training, consumables, etc. The use of the Export Certification Scheme is still
limited by inadequate publicity of the facility within the country, and an inability to institute cost
recovery pricing due to low volumes of business. In addition, the Export Certification Scheme
was conceived and developed as a parastatal-run monopoly service that has failed to adjust in the
face of emerging private sector competition. The project constructed twelve out of the planned
sixteen markets for local councils. While these council markets have facilitated rural private
trade, their long-term sustainability is limited by: the inability of local councils to levy market
fees that would at least cover operating costs; the failure and unwillingness of local councils to
allow the private sector to provide some of the commercial facilities and installations required in
the markets; and, the failure to institute a revolving fund to finance future market construction as
designed by the project.
9.    Key factors affecting project achievement. The main factor that explains the initial
project implementation delays was the lack of coordinated project management. There were two
parallel monitoring committees, one each for marketing and credit, with no unity of command,
and without senior representation on either committee. This resulted in a lack of guidance for
most of the implementation and monitoring activities and explains the project's failure to lend to
small estates as planned in the SAR.
10.   The AMED project was conceived at a time when the policy and legislative framework
was characterized by extensive state controls of all agricultural pricing and marketing activities,
sector credit rationing and interest rate caps, general distrust of the private sector, and dominance
of input and commodity markets by parastatal monopolies. In the early years of the project
several policy reforms were introduced, yet a substantial movement away from state-directed
markets did not occur until the last three years of the project. This, itself, generated a period of
transition in which private agents, parastatal enterprises and financial institutions began to
explore new opportunities and adjust to lost privileges. Many of the reforms in policy and
legislation have not been supported by timely publicity and training, resulting in continued
misperceptions and mutual private-public sector mistrust.
11.   Three developments, outside the control of the project, had a great influence on the
project's performance and outcome. First, a more pronounced supply response from policy
reforms and the resources provided under the project was constrained by two major droughts, in
1991/92 and 1994/95. These droughts reduced the trading base for private crop traders and
reduced farm incomes. Second, a radical change in the country's political system accelerated the
implementation of policy reforms, yet at the same time increased the demands on already
constrained financial and advisory services. Third, a breakdown in credit discipline occured



v
during the political transformation which, in 1992/93 resulted in widespread default on SACA
seasonal credit.
12.   Sustainability. The policy reforms implemented under the project have a high staying
power. The reforms have been reinforced by the effect of complementary SALs/SACs and the
change in the political system in the country to one that is more supportive of the private sector.
The PFIs will be able to maintain the flow of credit to the large estate sector with their own
resources. The experience that the PFIs gained under project will assist in future lending
activities, especially in emphasizing the importance of competent loan appraisal and effective
loan supervision. The sustainability of providing loans to small estates and private traders is
mainly dependent on the implementation of additional measures by GOM and the Reserve Bank
and on the financial services provided by the Malawi Rural Finance Company under the Rural
Financial Services Project. Indefund and SEDOM now have the capacity and expertise to lend to
small estates and private traders. However, the line of credit extended to these two PFIs under
the project did not create a revolving fund. This has resulted in a reduction of the amount of
resources available to be onlent to small estates after the project closed.
13.   The market infrastructure component could be sustainable with a sound policy and
operational back-up by GOM. There is still an outstanding need to:- (i) establish a revolving
fund from the loan repayment proceeds, perhaps through the Development Fund for Local
Authorities, that would finance future market construction and rehabilitation; (ii) devolving
greater authority for setting market fees to local authorities; and, (iii) allowing greater private
sector participation in the provision of marketing facilities in rural/council markets (e.g.
weighing scales, trading stalls, shop space). The operation of MBS and the export certification
scheme will be sustainable with improved commercialization and marketing of the services. It is
highly likely that the service would be viable if privatized as this would avert the higher
overheads associated with a parastatal operation.
14.   Bank and Borrower performance. Bank performance was generally satisfactory,
throughout the project cycle. The Bank mounted a total of nine supervision missions during the
project. These missions provided timely and effective guidance to the GOM and other project
implementing agencies. There were three changes in project task management, however. In the
course of project supervision efforts were made to strengthen the policy reform and trade
liberalization process and to develop and refine key project monitoring indicators. Indefund was
also brought in as a PFI to enable lending to small estates. The reallocations of funds to SEDOM
and SACA, at various points, were also timely interventions designed to meet effective credit
demand and to support the broader objective of raising rural incomes. This project would have
benefited from more frequent Bank supervision and from a mix of skills in the supervision
missions that also included credit/microfinance and agricultural marketing. The Borrower's
performance was generally satisfactory and responsive except in the areas of staffing of MPS and
in finding solutions for facilitating the flow of credit to small estates. The GOM's commitment
and performance in the area of market reforms was satisfactory.
15.   Overall project outcome. Overall, the project outcome can be considered moderately
satisfactoiy. The project achieved its objectives in improving agricultural marketing and



vi
developing a multi-channel marketing system as part of market reform policy . The other
objective of estate development through credit has been partially achieved to the extent that
some large estates have intensified and diversified their production. The project had limited
success in promoting exports and diversification though it helped in creating and sustaining rural
employment and incomes. The PFIs financed a series of investments geared toward tree crop or
food processing. The project contributed substantially to price and marketing policy reforms and
the establishment of private trader micro-lending as a viable commercial undertaking. It is noted,
however, that the performance of components for market infrastructure, institution building, and
credit to small estates was not satisfactory and will require further efforts to be considered
reasonably successful and sustainable.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.   Findings. Private traders emerged and increased their activity in rural markets as a result
of the reform policy facilitated by the project. The existing financial institutions have established
on-going commercial relations with a segment of the estate sub-sector and with selected agro-
industrial firms. The financial institutions experienced problems lending to the small estate sub-
sector, and cut back on such lending.
17.   Future operations. GOM is continuing with its liberalization of policy reforms through
the ASP (Cr. 2514-MAI) and other operations. The issue of operational viability of rural council
markets will be pursued by GOM through the ongoing Local Government Development Project
(Cr. 2646-MAI). An action plan for the recovery of SACA loans has been undertaken by the
Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) under the IDA-assisted Rural Financial Services
Project yet only a small proportion of this outstanding SACA debt has been recovered. The
MRFC has improved the access of small estates to production finance and is developing its
capacity and procedures to provide business loans to private traders.
Key lessons learned.
18.   The project demonstrated the need for effective arrangements for project management
and monitoring. It is important that projects be grafted into the existing institutional
arrangements for portfolio management within a sector without resorting to the creation of
'independent'units. The implementation of the AMED project was undermined by the
involvement of such an implementation unit which lacked the necessary seniority, capacity for
decision-making and linkages with the relevant Ministries' overall planning and monitoring
activities.
19.   While demonstrating the viability of microloans and lending to private traders, the
project's experience suggests that commercial banks may not be the most suitable institutions for
extending small loans to SMEs and small estates. The experience under AMED suggests that for
reaching such clients it is appropriate to work through existing SME lending institutions, as they
already have a lending philosophy, staffing, and procedures aimed at extending and managing



vii
small loans. The project's experience points to the needed design of revolving fund facilities,
with suitable apex institutions, that can continue to finance micro loans after project closure.
20.   The project demonstrated the value of client training which helped to impart
skills in the preparation and submission of loan applications and in loan management, plus to
further familiarize Borrowers with the key (financial) aspects of the businesses foriwhich they
are seeking financial support. This is especially important for clients who are borrowing for the
first time as routine yet poorly understood procedures may serve as a barrier to accessing loans.
At the same time PFIs need to be sensitized to the special features of lending groups, especially
those requiring microloans, which require significant departures from conventional lending
approaches to include group loans, closer loan supervision, and simplified application
procedures.
21.   Institutions and policies outside the direct control of the project should be coordinated so
that their weaknesses and pace do not undermine the implementation and success of the project.
This was brought to bear for the AMED project in the case of the Ministry of Local Government
which moved slowly in amending its set of regulations stipulating areas allowed for trading at
official minimum prices. The Ministry was also unable to institute a revolving fund that would
sustain the financing of local markets after project closure as the AMED was seen as a source of
grant funding for the local authorities. Coordination arrangements for multisectoral activities
should consider moving towards the creation of "councils" with permanent membership, defined
terms of reference, and incentives.
22.   In terms of the project design, the barriers to entry into agricultural trade faced by small
entrepreneurs should have been examined and reviewed up front. The project played a reactive
role in assessing and consulting with Government on policy reformns required to facilitate and
support the realization of project objectives. This should, instead, have been a major input at
preparation and design, to study and review the extent to which prevailing policies provided an
enabling environment for the project, and to recommend the necessary institutional, price, and
market reforms.



Project Implementation Completion Report
Malawi
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
(Cr.1966-AMI)
PART I.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Description
1.    The project had two objectives:
(i)  To improve agricultural marketing and thereby increase rural incomes. This would
be achieved by supporting Government's efforts to develop a multi-channel
marketing system; and
(ii) To improve resource utilization and productivity on estates. To achieve this
objective, the project would provide medium-term credit to finance intensification
and diversification of farm production. This activity was mainly targeted to the
small estates which had limited access to commercial credit.
2.    The project had three components:
(a) estate development and agricultural marketing and processing involving;
(i)  sub-projects to intensify and diversify estate production;
(ii) investment in support of agricultural processing and marketing; and
(iii) a pilot scheme to finance the short and medium-term credit requirements of
rural traders specializing in the purchase, storage and transportation of
smallholder crops.
(b) private trader training and institutional strengthening in the MOALD and the
Malawi Bureau of Standards to improve market policy analysis and develop market
services, private including market intelligence, regulatory and quality control
systems; and
(c) construction and improvement of selected rural markets that were identified as
potential growth centers for private trade in agricultural produce.



2
3.    The project was an important component of the World Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy to support the Government's market reform efforts and to develop a viable rural credit
system through existing financial institutions. The project was also aimed at promoting
improvements in agricultural sector production and productivity. The institutional component
supported improvements in Government's capacity to monitor market developments and to
implement appropriate policy reforms. The loan fund for estate development was expected to
contribute to a more efficient and diversified production pattern.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
General
4.    The objectives of developing a multi-channel marketing system with expanded private
trader activity in rural markets, and improving resource utilization and productivity on estates
were achieved satisfactorily. Delays were initially experienced in implementing some
components, including credit for estate development, credit for rural merchants under a pilot
scheme, introduction of export certification scheme, and construction of rural markets. The
restructuring of the project in 1992, by expanding project objectives to cover drought recovery
efforts, reallocated project funds to SACA to provide seasonal credit to smallholders. The SACA
loan scheme experienced massive default in 1992/93. The warehouse certification scheme,
designed to provide working capital loans to private trading enterprises against the security of
ADMARC warehouse receipts, was not implemented. Credit for small estate development did
not grow to the levels that were planned at appraisal. The project was completed at the end of
December 1995 in line with the schedule foreseen at appraisal. The extent and quality of
implementation of the different project components is described below.
Estate Development and Agricultural Marketing and Processing
5.    Estate development: The project sought to improve resource utilization and
productivity on estate lands by providing medium term credit to intensify and diversify crop
production. Three financial institutions, consisting of the two commercial banks and INDE Bank,
were chosen as PFIs for the project. The selection of these three banks as PFIs was in line with
the project's objective to promote access to commercial credit by small estates. Lending to
estates did not take off during the first two years. This delay was due to the problems that the
PFIs experienced in developing loan appraisal procedures that complied with IDA requirements.
The PFIs also lacked adequately trained staff that would interpret and operationalize the
guidelines provided by IDA for this purpose. The project lent mostly to large estates, contrary to
the project design which envisioned that lending to small estates would constitute 50% of all
loans to estates, or 33% of the total portfolio. The low level of lending to small estates was due
to: (i) the high risk associated with lending to small estates as default rates were high in the early
years of the project and as these estates lacked acceptable collateral; (ii) the high operating costs
associated with loans to small estates; (iii) the unacceptable modalities for lending on the line of
credit which stipulated lower rates of interest than the prevailing commercial rates of interest at
which the CBs were lending their own resources. With access to adequate liquidity, there was no



3
incentive for the banks to lend borrowed resources; and (iv) the non-availability of suitable staff
to supervise small loans in the PFIs. It is also important that the requirement to concentrate
lending on small estates was not reflected in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) between the
RBM and the individual PFIs. Under these circumstances, IDA and GOM decided to stop further
lending to larger estates in 1994 and, in the same year, to accept Indefund as an additional PFI
that would lend specifically to small estates. Indefund, which offers small investmenft loans,
ranging from MK30,000 to MK1 50,000, was able to make only a few loans, totaling MK1.2
million, to small estates. The Fund started making loans to small estates only after the Reserve
Bank agreed to a request for a wide interest spread to meet the heavy cost of servicing relatively
small loans.
6.    The PFIs disbursed a total of 86 loans, amounting to MK1 6.1 million, for estate
development. The number of disbursed loans achieved 28% of the target envisioned at appraisal.
Most of the loans, 92.5% of the loan amount, were extended by the two commercial banks and
INDEBank for larger estates. Indefund accounted for only 7.5% of the total credit that was
disbursed to estates.
7.    The deregulation of bank lending rates in Malawi gave the PFIs the discretion and
flexibility to fix their lending rates according to prevailing market conditions. The project had
stipulated an interest rate spread of 5% for loans to large estates and agro-industries and 7% for
small estate loans. The PFIs were required to annually review and revise their on-lending rates to
be consistent with the project guideline. The RBM was in turn expected to review and revise its
own lending rates on a point-to-point basis to reflect the changes in the agricultural lending rates
and the maintenance of the stipulated spreads. The interest rates charged by the PFIs increased
during project implementation, in line with the prevailing market conditions.
8.    The average loan sizes for Indefund and CBs was MKO. 17 million and MKO. 13 million,
respectively. The loans, even for larger estates, were relatively small perhaps to avoid the
mandated obligation of working out Finance Rate of Returns for loans above MKO.25 million.
In line with the SAR, the loans extended to large estates were for land improvement (irrigation),
development and rehabilitation of on-farn infrastructure (tobacco curing barns, storage sheds),
and purchase of tractors and implements, vehicles, and livestock. All the loans issued by CBM
were for the purchase of tractors. National Bank of Malawi, with a total of 29 loans, lent for a
wider range of purposes. The loans issued by Indefund covered mainly diversification of tobacco
estates to sunflower, soybeans, commercial maize, and livestock. The project did not monitor the
extent to which tobacco farms that borrowed for crops other than tobacco actually applied the
loan proceeds for diversification. It is likely that these loans also went to finance tobacco
intensification given the constraints small estates faced in accessing credit.
9.    The recovery rate on the loans extended by INDE Bank and Indefund was satisfactory at
about 90%. The NBM had a loan recovery rate of 80% while CBM, despite lending only for
tractor purchase, reported a loan recovery rate of only 50%. Despite the mixed achievements in
loan recovery, all the four PFIs punctually met their full loan repayment obligations to the RBM.



4
10.   Agro-Industrial Sub-Projects. The project envisaged providing medium term credit for
the development or rehabilitation of agro-industrial facilities, construction or rehabilitation of
storage/handling/grading facilities, and the purchase of transport equipment by the private
traders. Nine units, out 17 envisioned at appraisal, were financed under this program; All the
loans were for agro-industrial facilities, covering tea, coffee, cotton, vegetable oil, seed, dairy
and floriculture. The project extended no loans for milling investments as envisaged at appraisal.
The SAR lending targets were based on the assumption of providing the anticipated loan
financing that ADMARC milling operations would require for rehabilitation after being
privatized. There was no attempt to undertake a wider review of the prevailing investment
climate and needs. Lending for milling investments with project resources did not take off as the
banks preferred to lend their own resources and ADMARC'c continuing interest in the privatized
milling companies gave them access to significant equity funds. INDE Bank, due to its expertise
and experience in this sub-sector, extended seven agro-industrial loans while NBM and
INDEFUND each financed one project. CBM did not finance any project in this area.
11.   The SAR planned to extend short-term working capital loans to private traders against the
security of warehouse receipts by ADMARC. This scheme was not implemented despite the
wide prevalence of ADMARC storage facilities in rural areas. Its failure was largely due to lack
of knowledge and expertise required to design, install, and operate such a scheme. ADMARC
also moved slowly on this sub-component as it viewed this as granting an unfair advantage to its
competitors.
12.   Pilot Credit Scheme for Rural Merchants. The scheme, implemented by SEDOM, was
formulated to help small rural merchants to increase their participation in the marketing of farm
produce. The project was planned to provide short and medium-term loans to finance most
aspects of crop trading, including crop purchase, and investments in storage, processing, and
transport. No medium-term loans were extended due to inadequate credit allocation and the
perceived lack of capacity within SEDOM to manage such loans and the SMEs lack of
acceptable collateral. The financing of working capital loans commenced after a delay of more
than two years. This delay was mostly due to a lengthy process of consultation and approvals
required of SEDOM's loan procedures and lending methodology. In order to disburse loans
under the pilot, SEDOM was required to demonstrate its loan processing procedures and to clear
this, along with the first recommended loan recipients, with RBM and IDA. The whole process
of review, comment, and approval took two years partly due to a perception by the supervising
institutions that SEDOM was not capable of managing this sub-component. The impasse was
only resolved in the field when a Bank supervision mission undertook joint review of SEDOM
procedures with RBM and recommended that the pilot could proceed.
13.   SEDOM expanded its working capital loans significantly from about MKO.7 million to
six traders in 1992/93 to a level of over MK30 million, covering 340 traders by 1995/96. 20% of
its loans were to female Borrowers. In 1995/96 SEDOM also initiated lending to retail input
dealers. Due to its effective lending and supervision procedures, besides provision of essential
business advisory services, SEDOM achieved nearly a 100% loan recovery rate.



5
14.   SEDOM's successful lending experience led to the reallocation of additional funds for
this category. The final allocation of SDR 2.6 million was fully utilized. SEDOM has been
repaying its loans to the RBM annually as stipulated in the SLA. Its request to recycle the
recoveries for a period of three years was approved by the Reserve Bank to be effective from FY
95/96. SEDOM further requested RBM to establish a loan revolving fund that would finance a
private trader lending program in the long term. This proposal, though approved by GOM, has
not been implemented due to lack of resources. Previous PFI loan repayments to RBM are not
available to finance the revolving fund since they were routinely credited to Government as
counterpart funds and spent on public debt relief.
15.         Implementation progress of the credit component for estates was slow throughout
the project's life. This was primarily due to the reluctance of PFIs to extend credit to small
estates as they were perceived to have high risks and transaction costs. Following a supervision
mission in November 1991, the GOM and IDA prepared an action plan to improve the project's
performance on this component. The main action was to restructure the credit component to
allow project funds to be used for incremental seasonal credit for smallholder farmers.
Accordingly, SDR4.2 million was reallocated to SACA in 1992. The DCA was amended for this
purpose by broadening the project scope and objectives to cover drought recovery efforts. SACA
utilized SDR3.9 million out of the total allocation.
16.   As indicated in the ICR for the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1851 -MAI),
indiscriminate lending by SACA following the drought in 1991/92, coupled with political
intervention in the recovery process, resulted in a very poor loan recovery performance of 15% in
1992/93. The project also made no attempt to integrate smallholder credit as one of its
components, other than acting as an ad hoc and convenient source of funds to finance the
shortfall in seasonal credit. No attempts were made to monitor and supervise SACA once the
funds were disbursed nor to institute measures in SACA loan approval and management
procedures, as indicated in the ICR for SACA, in order to establish and enhance its viability as a
lending institution.
Institutional Development
17.   The Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS). To assist the MPS in fulfilling its policy
formulation and market support functions, the project provided resources for technical assistance,
which included three person-years of an internationally recruited marketing adviser. The adviser
was able to fulfil his TORs except with respect to documenting and operationalizing the
warehouse certification scheme. Vehicles and office equipment were provided to MPS as
envisaged. The training program covered two 2-year Master's degree studies in economics in the
UK and a short course in marketing in Australia. The rural financial specialist, supposed to
implement and monitor the pilot credit scheme of SEDOM, was not recruited as adequate in-
house expertise was available within SEDOM and MOALD. The proposed organizational set-up
of MPS, as foreseen at appraisal, included a total of seven economists but only three were ever
actually in position throughout the project. As a result, the MPS was restricted in the services and
functions it was able to perform and some activities, e.g. the price and market information
system, were only supported marginally. Overall, considerable achievement has been made in the



6
implementation of the mandate for market reforms by MOALD through amending or repealing
legislation and policies restricting the participation of private traders in agricultural marketing.
The marketing of all agricultural inputs and crops, except maize, has been liberalized, thus
effectively ending the ADMARC's monopoly in crop and input trading. Government control in
maize trading, mainly exports, is continuing due to the perceived strategic importance of this
crop as the principle staple food in Malawi.
18.   MOALD regularly collects farm commodity price information for sixteen crops and three
livestock products from 45 rural markets. However, analysis and dissemination of price
information through mass media is done only for five foodcrops (maize, cassava, rice,
groundnuts and beans) and the three livestock products (beef, goat meat and pork) on the basis of
price information collected from 18 markets.
19.   Marketing advisory did not receive the required attention during the project. At project
design, no funds were allocated for market extension on the assumption that this service would
be performed by existing ADD credit and marketing officers. These officers were, however,
concentrated on the credit activities under SACA. Scope still exists, however, for market
extension to be integrated into the overall extension service of the MOALD through existing
Subject Matter Specialists and Field Assistants.
20.   The factors that constrain the availability of credit to estates, particularly to the small
estates sector through the existing financial institutions, should also have been addressed during
implementation. The training of small estates on aspects of farm credit management, including
record keeping and the preparation of business plans for loan application, would have improved
access to credit. In addition, the PFIs required to be sensitized and trained on the unique
features of extending small loans which require different procedures and systems from normnal
commercial loans.
21.  In terms of the project design, the barriers to entry into agricultural trade faced by small
entrepreneurs should have been examined and reviewed up front. The project played a reactive
role in assessing and consulting with Government on policy reforms required to facilitate and
support the realization of project objectives. This should, instead, have been a major input at
preparation and design, to study and review the extent to which prevailing policies provided an
enabling environment for the project, and to recommend the necessary institutional, price, and
market reforms. One issue that remains unresolved is the conflicting interests of private traders,
and private sector development in general, with the continued role of ADMARC and the role of
Government in an economy that is attempting to liberalize and promote the private sector.
22.   Training. The Planning Division of MOALD, in conjunction with SEDOM,
INDEFUND, ADMARC, and Development of Malawian Traders Trust (DEMATT), conducted
marketing courses for private traders as well as for the staff of MPS and ADDs covering subjects
such as general produce marketing, book and record-keeping, accounts and storage. As a result,
some 1,130 private traders received training during the period 1989/90 to 1992/93. The project
ensured that all the prospective SEDOM beneficiaries, particularly women, were trained in the
businesses they wanted to borrow for. All the entrepreneur training courses were conducted by



7
resource persons from DEMAT, SEDOM, and MOALD. This arrangement for recruiting
resource persons did not always guarantee the professionalism and competence required for
effective business skills training that may have been possible if the training was provided
through specialized institutions like the Malawi Entrepreneur Development Institute (MEDI) and
the Polytechnic Business School.
23.   Export Quality Control. The project provided funds to MBS to procure office and
laboratory equipment and vehicles. The installation of laboratory equipment was completed in
1993. Additional staff, including a scientific officer, two technical assistants and two technical
officers were recruited. Six months of TA for export quality control was also provided. Under
the training component, six MBS officials were sent abroad on study tours to familiarize
themselves with export inspection and certification of agricultural products and the management
of export quality control systems. The implementation of this component was delayed for about
two years as MBS did not fully understand Government's budget procedures and IDA's funding
arrangements. IDA disbursement, which was on a reimbursement basis, required that MBS be
allocated resources in the Development Budget which would first be spent before claiming for
reimbursement. The MBS was not familiar with this requirement and never submitted its
financing requirements to be included in the Government Budget. As a result the Government
Development Budget made no financial allocation to them during the first two years that would
have enabled them to utilize the IDA credit. An additional development that influenced the
implementation of this component was the market liberalization program which led to quality
control and certification of agricultural exports becoming optional. In these circumstances, the
tests conducted by MBS declined from about 4,600 in 1992 to 2,550 in 1994. During the same
period export certificates issued declined from 51 to 27. The opening up of in-house laboratory
facilities by the tobacco export companies, and the opening of SGS offices in Malawi, further
contributed to the declining business of MBS. This has resulted in gross under-utilization of the
facilities provided under the project. While MBS had undertaken many steps to publicize its
services, a more aggressive campaign for publicity in potential markets, both at home and
abroad, is justified. It is also likely that this service would be viable if privatized as this would
avert the higher overheads associated with a parastatal operation.
24.   Market Infrastructure. Out of the sixteen district markets to be constructed and/or
rehabilitated by the project, only twelve were completed, three through LCB and the remaining
on force account. All the constructed markets are collecting revenues by charging fees to the
vendors although the project did not develop guidelines for fee collection on cost recovery basis
or for the management of the markets. A study of six markets conducted by the Ministry of Local
Government (MOLG) has revealed lack of financial viability in the operation of half of the
markets even under optimal conditions. The poor design and the structural deficiencies in the
Lunzu, Chilumba and Lizulu markets contributed to the under-utilization of the facilities. Due to
the poor revenue collections MOLG proposed that 50% of the loan to the local authorities be
treated as a grant. However, no formal agreement has yet been entered into between the MOLG
and the local authorities in respect of these loans.
25.   Reaching an agreement on loan repayment by the local authorities is an urgent necessity.
The agreement would enable the setting up of a revolving loan fund needed to finance future



8
market development as envisioned by the project. It would also encourage local authorities to
take their loan obligations and financial management seriously and encourage them to start
managing their revenues.
Economic and Financial Objectives
26.   As against the estimated project cost at US$28.3 million, the actual project cost was
US$25.4 million. The IDA credit of SDR14.2 million, equivalent to US$19.8 million, was fully
disbursed. The reduction in the project's cost mostly affected the market construction
component where 4 markets were not constructed by project completion due to lack of funds. All
other physical targets in terms of procurement, training, and infrastructure were met. The
reduction in the project cost resulted from the reallocation of funds to SACA which did not
require counterpart contributions from the Government or final Borrower. The disbursements of
counterpart funds included GOM US$0.4 million, PFIs US$1.8 million and Borrowers
contribution of US$3.4 million. The final disbursement under the IDA credit was made on
August 27, 1996, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1996.
27.   At appraisal, financial rates of return (FRR) for small estates were estimated to range
from 18% to over 50%. The FRRs for agro-industries were expected to be in the range of 20% to
30%. It was assumed that the associated economic rates of return would be at the same level or
higher due to the limited number of subsidies and price distortions in the estate and agro-
processing sectors. The SLA stipulated FRRs to be calculated for investment proposals requiring
loan amounts above US$ 100,000. Furthermore, in order to qualify for bank loans, the sub-
projects were required to yield a FRR of not less than 12%. For INDE Bank, whose loans
averaged US$180,000, the relative FRRs were reported to be above 50%. The other PFIs did not
undertake detailed financial analyses as their loans were less than the SAR stipulated threshold
for estimating the FRR. However, on the basis of data provided by INDEFUND, the ICR
mission was able to estimate the FRR for selected projects which were also above 50%.
28.   The project significantly assisted individual subprojects that contributed to the
intensification of tobacco, diversification of agricultural production, and to increased rural
incomes and employment. Support to tobacco and diversification also increased exports earnings
and direct rural employment. Investments in oil processing and refining resulted in import
substitution and forex savings on imports of edible oils. Along the same lines, loan assistance
provided by SEDOM to rural enterprises for trading in agricultural produce and inputs is
expected to have assisted in generating direct rural employment.
29.   As indicated in a study of six markets carried out by MOLG, the rural markets lack
operational viability. However, these markets have provided acceptable physical facilities for
rural trade in farm produce, inputs, and other food and non-food products.
30.   The institutional strengthening program has helped GOM in establishing improved data
collection and analysis, and in facilitating the initiation and implementation of appropriate
market reforms. The liberalization of farm produce and input trading is the main impact of the
reform process which has also generated rural employment and incomes.



9
C.   Major Factors Affecting The Project
Project Management
31.   The project was jointly managed by MOALD and RBM. MOALD coordinated the
institutional development component and the pilot credit scheme while RBM was responsible for
the implementation of the credit component. Two coordinating committees were also set up to
oversee the implementation of the project. The Marketing Committee (MC) was headed by the
Principal Secretary for MOALD and the Estates and Agro-Industries Committee (EAC) was
headed by the Secretary to the Treasury. The MC and EAC met regularly but their effectiveness
was undermined by the following factors:
(i) dichotomy in the responsibility for credit component management between RBM
and MOF;
(ii) lack of continuity in the membership of the committee;
(iii) absence of senior members, including the chairmen, in the committee meetings; and
(iv) non-involvement of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) of MOALD in the
project monitoring activities.
32.         As a result, most of the monitoring activities proceeded with little professional
guidance and there was no system for giving feedback to the implementing agencies on the
progress reports submitted by them. Further, the capability of the M&E Unit, responsible for the
mid-term evaluation and completion report, was impaired by the insufficient flow of project data
and information from the implementing agencies and the MCs. Indicators for monitoring the
project, outlined in the SAR and refined during supervision missions and during the MTR with
Government's agreement, were never systematically applied to the project as the M&E unit was
fully occupied with monitoring ADDs and sectoral performance.
33.   The implementation and management of the project suffered from the lack of unity in
command. In a project with multiple objectives, cutting across several departments of the
government as well as different parastatal institutions, the absence of a single controlling and
coordinating point contributed to start-up delays experienced by the project in the sub-
components for credit to estates, pilot loan schemes for traders, export certification, and in
market infrastructure. Other components such as the warehouse certification scheme failed to be
implemented. In addition, issues that emerged during implementation e.g. inability to provide
credit to small estates or the loan requirements of SEDOM clients, were not addressed
effectively. The World Bank supervision mission in April 1991 rated the performance of the
project as unsatisfactory because of the slow progress in lending by CBs, lack of progress in
lending to traders and in market development. All these were caused by problems in project
management.



10
External Factors
34.   Reforms in policy and legislation, as well as publicity and training in support of
liberalization reform, were not properly phased and linked with the provision of financial
services and infrastructure required in a liberalized environment to facilitate entry into
production an enable the planned intensification and diversification of farm produfction and
trade. Three other developments, outside the control of the project, have greatly influenced the
project's performance and outcome: (i) A more pronounced supply response, as a result of the
project, was constrained by two droughts, in 1991/92 and 1994/95, that reduced crop output and
also reduced the trading base for private crop traders and farmers" incomes. One of the major
implications of the drought was to reduce farmers' ability to repay seasonal loans which
undermined repayments to loans extended under this project and by SACA; (ii) A radical
change in the country's political system also ushered in a period of accelerated implementation
of policy reforms that led to increased demands on already constrained financial and advisory
services. (iii) The breakdown in credit discipline leading to the massive and widespread default
on SACA credit.
MOALD
35.   Small estates development: The country had about 3,500 small estates in 1982 and the
SAR envisioned that 285 would access loans under the project. However, only seven small
estates were able to get loans. The project failed to address the factors that constrain the
availability of credit to small estates. In the absence of any such exercise, the implementation of
an important component, crucial to the development of the agricultural sector and for rural
income distribution, did not proceed as planned or required. There is a possibility that training of
small estates on aspects of farm credit management, including record keeping and the preparation
of business plans for loan application, would have improved access to credit. In addition, the
PFIs required to be sensitized and trained on the unique features of extending small loans which
require different procedures and systems from normal commercial loans. In this context, access
to credit by small estates should have improved if the PFIs recognized their training needs, the
need for closer supervision, the option of group loans to improve viability by reducing
supervision expenses and as a substitute for collateral. Ironically, many small estates received
credit under the leakage of subsidized SACA credit.
36.   Drought recovery mechanism. Under-utilization of funds by estates was the main
reason for reallocating project funds in favor of SACA in 1992. There was no exercise to inquire
into the causes for the slow disbursement of loans to estates and to suggest possible solutions. It
was important to provide drought relief to smallholders. However, similar support was also
necessary for the small estate sector that was not accessing any formal credit. In addition, there
was the need for investments in infrastructure and irrigation to improve the production and
productivity of estate lands following the drought. The reallocation of funds was implemented at
a time when the PFIs had geared up to expand their loan financing to estates. The decision to
reallocate the project funds to SACA is reported to have been taken without consulting the PFIs.
In fact, a GOM inter-ministerial meeting, held in August 1992, advised against the proposed
reallocations. However, it is undeniable that Government made a request to effect the



11
reallocation. Support to smallholder farmers had a stronger social and economic justification
given the numbers of people who participated in SACA credit and the impact that credit would
have on use of fertilizer and improved seeds, and on household food security and income.
37.   Warehouse Scheme. The Warehouse Scheme, to extend working capital loan finance to
agro-industrial enterprises, was not implemented. This is because the institutional, legal, and
operational procedures for a warehouse certification scheme, to be implemented through
ADMARC, were not developed as required during the project. The TA to advise on this
component was never hired and IDA did not provide close guidance during supervision on
options for revitalizing this component. A proposal by GOM, supported by IDA, for ADMARC
to lease or rent out storage space to private traders in rural areas failed to take off due to the high
rental charges that ADMARC demanded. Given ADMARC's opposition to all marketing
reforms during this period, and the high rentals that it demanded for storage space, it is doubtful
that this activity would have had any chances of success even if it were implemented.
RBM
38.   PFIs lacked experience in lending to small estates. In addition, the small estates were
unable to develop and submit bankable and viable sub-projects. These problems were not
adequately reviewed by RBM which also lacked capacity and experience in managing such a line
of credit. The Apex Unit was entrusted with this responsibility without any capacity building to
enable them to manage this component effectively.
Financial Management
39.   The various departments and institutions participating in the project have not been able to
maintain, reconcile, and prepare project accounts for audit purposes. This was due to the lack of
adequately qualified accounting staff to perform these tasks. Further, the project audits
themselves were generally delayed, in part due to inadequacies and delays in the receipt of basic
accounts and reports and also due to the lack of adequate staff within the audit department. The
final audit, for April-June 1996, still remains to be completed. IDA had originally agreed with
the Borrower that this audit would be combined with the April 95 - March 96 Audit. However,
Government accounting could not accommodate an audit report that overflowed into a second
financial year. Government will present a separate final audit, covering the three months from
April-June, 1996, by April, 1997.
D.   Project Sustainability
40.   Sustainability. The policy reforms implemented under the project have a high staying
power. The reforms have been reinforced by the effect of complementary SALs/SACs and the
change in the political system in the country to one that is more supportive of the private sector.
The PFIs will be able to maintain the flow of credit to the large estate sector with their own
resources and the experience gained under project would assist especially in emphasizing the
importance of competent reviews of loan applications and effective supervision of loans. Given



12
the high levels of default on loans extended to the estate sector, it is unlikely that the net worth
of the participating commercial banks improved as a result of this project. Providing small
estates and private traders access to credit is only partly sustainable and dependent on the
implementation of additional measures by GOM and RBM. Both Indefund and SEDOM now
have the capacity and expertise to lend viably to small estates and private traders. However, the
line of credit extended to these two PFIs under the project did not create a revolving fund.
SEDOM and Indefund got annual loans through RBM that were repayable at the end of one
lending cycle. Because the funds were not revolved, the amount of resources to be lent to private
traders and small estates reduced drastically after the project closed. The market infrastructure
component would be sustainable with a sound policy and operational back-up by GOM. There
is still an outstanding need to: (i) establish a revolving fund from the repayment proceeds of the
local authorities that have already borrowed, perhaps through the Development Fund for Local
Authorities, that would finance future market construction and rehabilitation; (ii) devolving
greater authority for setting market fees to local authorities; and, (iii) allowing greater private
sector participation in the provision of marketing facilities in rural/council markets e.g. weighing
scales, trading stalls, shop space, etc. The operation of MBS and the export certification scheme
would be improved with increased commercialization of MB S's services, a clear trade policy
guiding the certification of agricultural exports that is backed by sound training and publicity of
such an exercise, and continued Government financial support, in the short-term, that would be
required to re-equip and supply the MBS. However, the sustainability of this service, is at best
uncertain given the emergence of private sector and international competition in export
certification and product testing. The tobacco industry, which was the main client of MBS
testing and certification services, installed in-house facilities to do their own testing to avoid the
monopolistic rates that were charged by MBS.
41.   Consequent to the restructuring of the project in 1992, a major share of the project funds
was reallocated to SACA for urgent drought recovery assistance. The sustainability related to
SACA lending operations is jeopardized by poor recovery. The MRFC initiated an action plan
for recovery of the overdue SACA loans. This has had only a marginal impact as only MK 15
million, out of an outstanding balance of MK254 million, has been recovered. These recovered
funds have become part of MRFC's equity.
42.   With regard to the institutional strengthening component, the activities of MPS are
expected to continue in view of the GOM commitment to the program of trade liberalization,
which received a great impetus under the project. The training program for the rural traders also
successfully carried out during the project is expected to be built up under the department's
activities.



13
E.   Bank Performance
43.   The AMED project was conceived under the GOM's Structural Adjustment Program.
The marketing development part of the project was identified during the negotiations for the IDA
supplement to SAL III while the estate development component was based on the identification
work undertaken by FAO/CP under the pilot component of the Industrial and Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 2646-MAI).
44.   Nine supervision missions visited the project, nearly at half-year intervals. Of these, five
were joint missions covering two to four related projects in the agricultural sector. At each stage,
task plans were drawn up by the missions to facilitate timely action on key items. The more
important interventions of these missions related to acceptance of INDEFUND as a PFI to
extend loan finance to small estates, the reallocation of funds from the estate (small) sector to
SACA as part of the drought recovery mechanism, and the reallocation of funds to SEDOM from
residual components. Their interventions also facilitated the introduction of price and market
reforms by complementing and deepening measures that were initiated under previous
SALs/SACs. These reforms had the tangible impact of widely opening up farm produce trade to
private traders. Locating the Task Manager for the project in the local Resident Mission
facilitated timely support to various project implementation agencies. Overall, the Bank
performance is considered satisfactory. Implementation experience has indicated the need and
scope for more effective project monitoring which should have been foreseen at the design stage.
F.    Borrowers Performance
45.   The Borrower's performance in the project preparation was constructive and satisfactory.
During implementation it fulfilled its organizational commitments, except in filling up the MPS
vacancies for economists. Its commitment and performance in the area of market reforms was
highly satisfactory. However, the Borrower did not effectively address the constraints in the
flow of credit to small estates. The loan agreements in regard to rural markets between the
MOLG and the local bodies remained to be executed.
G.   Assessment Of Outcome
46.   Overall, the project outcome can be considered moderately satisfactory. The project
objectives of improving agricultural marketing and developing a multi-channel marketing system
as part of market reform policy were substantially achieved. The other objective of estate
development through credit has been partially achieved to the extent that several large estates
were able to intensify and diversity their production. However, large estates, which were the
main loan recipients under the project, would have accessed loan finance for
diversification/intensification without the AMED project. The project had limited success in
promoting exports and diversification though it did contribute to increased rural employment and
incomes. The project contributed significantly to price and marketing policy reform and in the
establishment of private trader micro-lending as a viable commercial undertaking. It is noted,



14
however, that the performance of components for market infrastructure, institution building, and
credit to estates was not satisfactory and will require further efforts to be considered reasonably
successful and sustainable.
H.    Future Operations
47.   It is the GOM's intention to continue the implementation of the market reforms relating to
further liberalization of commodity markets and pricing reform. MOALD intends to propagate
these policy reforms through a national campaign to sensitize the public. The GOM agreed to fill
the MPS vacancies with a view to establishing the capacity required to undertake competent
analyses of price and marketing policy and to provide timely market and price information to
private traders. GOM will pursue the issue of operational viability of rural council markets
through the on-going Local Government Development Project (Cr. 2646-MAI).
I.    Key Lessons Learned
48.   The project demonstrated the need for effective arrangements for project management
and monitoring. It is important that projects be grafted into the existing institutional
arrangements for portfolio management within a sector without resorting to the creation of
'independent'units. The implementation of the AMED project was undermined by the
involvement of such an implementation unit which lacked the necessary seniority, capacity for
decision-making and linkages with the relevant Ministries' overall planning and monitoring
activities.
49.   While demonstrating the viability-of microloans and lending to private traders, the
project's experience suggests that commercial banks may not be the most suitable institutions for
extending small loans to SMEs and small estates. The experience under AMED suggests that for
reaching such clients it is appropriate to work through existing SME lending institutions, as they
already have a lending philosophy, staffing, and procedures aimed at extending and managing
small loans. The project's experience points to the needed design of revolving fund facilities,
with suitable apex institutions, that can continue to finance micro loans after project closure.
50.   The project demonstrated the value of client training which helped to impart
skills in the preparation and submission of loan applications and in loan management, plus to
further familiarize Borrowers with the key (financial) aspects of the businesses for which they
are seeking financial support. This is especially important for clients who are borrowing for the
first time as routine yet poorly understood procedures may serve as a barrier to accessing loans.
At the same time PFIs need to be sensitized to the special features of lending groups, especially
those requiring microloans, which require significant departures from conventional lending
approaches to include group loans, closer loan supervision, and simplified application
procedures.
51.   Institutions and policies outside the direct control of the project should be coordinated so
that their weaknesses and pace do not undermine the implementation and success of the project.



15
This was brought to bear for the AMED project in the case of the Ministry of Local Government
which moved slowly in amending its set of regulations stipulating areas allowed for trading at
official minimum prices. The Ministry was also unable to institute a revolving fund that would
sustain the financing of local markets after project closure as the AMED was seen as a source of
grant funding for the local authorities. Coordination arrangements for multisectoral activities
should consider moving towards the creation of "councils" with permanent membership, defined
terns of reference, and incentives.
52.   In terms of the project design, the barriers to entry into agricultural trade faced by small
entrepreneurs should have been examined and reviewed up front. The project played a reactive
role in assessing and consulting with Government on policy reforms required to facilitate and
support the realization of project objectives. This should, instead, have been a major input at
preparation and design, to study and review the extent to which prevailing policies provided an
enabling environment for the project, and to recommend the necessary institutional, price, and
market reforms.



I



Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2.:   Related Bank Credit
Table 3.:   Project Timetable
Table 4.:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A.: Project Costs
Table 8B.: Project Financing
Table 9.:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.:  Bank Resources: Missions






19
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        SubstaiaIl    Partial   Negligible    NotApplicable
Macro policies                I I        F                         I
Sector policies                                     II DC
Financial objectives                     RIl                      D 
Institutional development                  D1 E      E            :
Physical objectives           II          EF                      D
Poverty reduction              D            1mF                   [ 
Gender issues                  L                                  D [2  a
Other social objectives        n
Environmental objectives      L          L          LE
Public sector management      K]          EI         ol           D
Private sector development     Z         LI            l          D
Other (specify)               K]         K]          OI           D



20
B. Project sustainability                    LikeY       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)          (1)         (1)
Highly
C. Bank 2erfonnance                      satisfactora    Satisfactory  Deficient
(ii          (ti)         (fi)
Identification                 II            L7          LI]
Preparation assistance          [j]          E]           [I
Appraisal                       FII         Fi            [E
Supervision                     LI]          Li          FI]
HIijhlv
D. Borrower performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactor,   Deficient
(V)           (/)          (1)
Preparation                     [                         [I
Implementation                  El          [E           FI
Covenant compliance             Fl           Li            EI
Operation (if applicable)       El          EI 
Hiehly                                     HighJy
E. Assessment of outcome               satisfacto    Satisfactoyr   Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
(LI    Li)                  El)            [



Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title                                         Purpose                              Year of            Status
approval
. Industria and Agricultural CrediTo help meet the sub-sector's MT credit needs and to test mechanism for  1986  Closed
(Lnd.u2i64 6- MA I)                  channeling such credit through existing banking institutions
2. SAL [If Supplement                  Expand role of private sector in marketing of smallholder crops; improve  1987    Closed
financial performance and operational efficiency of ADMARC; strengthen food
security planning capability
3. Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project   To transform Malawi's smallholder credit system into a better managed, more    1988  Closed
(Cr.1851-MAI)                        efficient, and financially viable rural credit delivery system                    December 1994
4. Rural Financial Services Project    To improve the access to financial services for the rural sector      June 1993   Under
(Cr.25 1 3-MAI)                                                                                                       implementation



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification'                                      April/May 1987           April/May 1987
Preparation                                             June 1987                Nov. 1987
Final Preparation/Pre-Appraisal                        Nov. 1987               Jan-Feb. 1988
Appraisal                                              March 1988                May 1988
Credit Negotiations                                       1988                4-7 October 1988
Board Presentation                                      Nov. 1988               1 Dec. 1988
Credit Agreement Signing                              31 March 1989            31 March 1989
Credit Effectiveness                                   9 June 1989              9 June 1989
Mid-Term Review                                         June 1992                Dec. 1993
Project Completion                                    31 Dec. 1995              31 Dec. 1995
Loan Closing                                          30 June 1996              30 June 1996
" The marketing element of the project was identified during negotiations of the IDA-financed supplement to SAL
III. The support for estate development was included during preparation based on identification work
undertaken by FAO/CP.



23
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY89/90          FY90/91          FY91/92         FY92/93          FY93/94         FY04/95         FY95/96
............................................................... (USS million) .......................................................................l
Appraisal estimate (cumulative)                           3.3              6.0             8.8            11.3              13.7            16.0             18.3
Actual (cumulative)                                       1.9              3.8             6.8            14.7              16.8            18.6             19.8
Actualas%/ofestimate                                    57.6             63.3            77.3           130.1             122.6           116.3            108.2
............................................................... (SDR million)  .
Appraisal estimate (cumulative)                           2.6              4.7             6.8              8.8             10.6            12.4             14.2
Actual (cumulative)                                      1.4               2.8              5.0           10.7              12.1            13.3             14.2
Actual as % ofestimateL"                                 53.8             59.6            73.5           121.6             114.2           107.3            108.4
| Date of last disbursement: 5 February 1996
Y Including PPF cost.
k' The excess rate of disbursement during the period 1992/93-1994/95 is on account of the bulk withdrawal of SDR3.9 million in 1992/93 under
Category 10 (SACA).



24
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicatieon Line Indicators                                              Unit                           Estimated            Actual
A.       Marketing and Estate Credit:
Small Estates                                                       No. of loans issued            287                 7
Large Estates                                                                                      21                  79
Agro-Processing                                                                                    17                  9
Private Traders                                                                                    n.a.                850
B.       Marketing Infrastructure:
- Rural Markets                                                     No.                            16                   12
C.       Technical Assistance:
- Printing and Marketing Unit
Marketing Specialist                                               man years                      3                   3
Rural Financial Specialist                                                                        2 2
- Bureau of Standards
Quality Control (Export)                                           m.m.                           9                   6
D.       Training:
Pricing and Marketing Unit:
- Overseas training                                                 2 year course                  2                   2
- Study Tours                                                       No.                            6                    1
- Local Training:
PMU                                                            Beneficiaies                   35                  n.a.
Field Staff                                                       .                           225                 n.a.
Private Traders                                                                               n.a.                 1,129
Bureau of Standards:
- Study Tours                                                       No.                            5                   6



25
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operations
Not applicable to this project
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined           Status                Impact of study
Impact study of    To analyze the impact of market    Completed in    GOM initiated steps to revoke market
market reform    liberalization policies on private traders   1992     regulations restrictive to private traders
measures



26
Table 8A. Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Item                          costs       costs                   costs      costs
A. Institutional               650        1,909      2,559        654        2,029       2,683
Strengtheninge'
B. Marketing Infrastructure    292        438         730          375        563         938
C. Marketing and Estate Credit   10,377  14,643      25,020       6,745      9,706       16,451
D. Drought Recovery             -          -            -          535       4,812       5,347
Assistance
TOTAL                       11,319      16,990      28,309       8,309      17,110     25,419
a   Including PMS and MBS.
The foreign exchange component has been estimated by the mission on the basis of SAR assumptions.
However, for the Drought Recovery Assistance component (mainly imported inputs) a foreign exchange
component of 90% has been applied.
Table 8B. Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)      Actual/latest estimate (US$'000)
Local     Foreign     Total         Local       Foreign     Total
Source           costs       costs                   costs         costs
A. IDA                        1,285      16,990     18,275        5,827        13,938     19,765
B. Participating Banks        3,222        -        3,222         728          1,092      1,820
C. Borrowers                 6,255                  6,255         1,388        2,080      3,468
D. GOM                        557          -         557          366            -         366
TOTAL                        11,319      16,990     28,309        8,309        17,110    25,419



27
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, financial rates of return (FRR) for small estates were estimated to range from 18% to
over 50%. The FRRs for agro-industries were expected to be in the range of 20% to 30%. It was
assumed that the related economic rates of return were at the same level or higher than the FRRs due to
the limited number of subsidies and distortions facing the estate sector and agro-processors. As
stipulated in the SLAs, FRRs on individual sub-projects were only required to be calculated for
investments above US$100,000. Furthermore, to qualify for bank loans, the sub-projects needed to yield
a FRR of not less than 12%. For 1NDE Bank, which processed applications with loans averaging
US$180,000, the estimated FRRs for the projects they lent to were reported to be above 50%. The other
PFIs did not work out detailed financial analyses as the investments financed by them were less than the
cut-off level for estimating the FRR. However, on the basis of data provided by INDEFUND, the
mission was able to estimate the FRR of selected projects which were assessed at a level above 50%.
The project has made a substantial contribution to the intensification and diversification of agricultural
production, rural incomes and employment, as well as export promotion and import substitution. Thus,
out of the 18 sub-projects for estate development and agro-processing enterprises financed by
INDEBANK, information gathered on 10 projects has shown that an investment of MK45.57 million,
with bank loans aggregating MK22.77 million, has contributed directly to rural employment and to the
earning of foreign exchange from exports of tea, coffee and flowers. The project also promoted savings
in foreign exchange by investing in the increased production of edible oils. Loan assistance provided by
SEDOM to rural enterprises for trading in agricultural produce and inputs is expected to have generated
direct rural employment. As indicated in a study of six markets carried out by MOLG, the rural markets
were lacking in operational viability. However, these markets have provided substantial opportunities
for improved assembly, handling and storage, facilitating better marketing by traders. The issue of the
financial viability of these markets is reported to be pursued by GOM. The institutional strengthening
program has also helped GOM in improved data collection and analysis, facilitating initiation of
appropriate market reforms. The opening of markets to private traders and providing them with timely
market information has, on the one hand, had a tangible impact on the reforms process and, on the other,
in the trading and related sectors, and the generation of rural employment and incomes.
Marketing models for pilot credit to small traders were developed at appraisal for small,
intermediate and large scale operations to be supported financially by SEDOM. Under the financing
plan, the construction of stores, the purchase of transport vehicles and working capital were considered.
As implemented, the credit program for investment operations never materialized. Only trading
activities were supported with working capital loans. A representative marketing model for a medium
scale trader, operating in the purchase and sale of maize, beans and pigeon peas has been developed
based on data collected from the field. The model, which represents a business turnover of 25 tons/year,
supported by a working capital loan of MK70,000, indicates an annual surplus of MK47,000 after
meeting the financial costs.



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
MALAWI
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Original  Revised
Covenant Present  fulfillment fulfillment Description of                            Comments
Agreement Section  type      status   date      date      covenant
Credit    2.02 (b)  2        C        06/09/89            Establishment of two (2) Project Special Accounts  None
6 (c)
3.01 (a)(i) 2     C                             This is a general covenant about diligence, provision None
of funds, efficiency, etc.
3.01 (c)  3.2     C        06/09/89             An agreement to be entered into between the  None
Borrowers and the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM)
and between RBM and the participating financial
institutions (two commercial banks, INDEBANK,
INDEFUND and SEDOM).
3.02     5        C                             IDA procurement procedures to be followed    None
t'J
3.04     2        CP                            Borrower to review interest rate structure governing This has not been strictly complied with in as much  co
lending under the project annually and revise if    as the stipulated "spreads" were not maintained
necessary                                    between RBM and PFIs.
3.05     5        C        07/30/91             The Borrower to submit to IDA for review TOR and None
a work program for implementation of a pilot credit
scheme for traders.
4.01     1.9      C                             Project Accounts to be audited annually      These are regularly submitted, though with delay.
The final audit for 94-95 is yet to be considered.
6.01              C        06/09/89             As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower should None
establish the Marketing Committee and Estate and
Agro-Industry Committee
Schedule 9.2      C                             (i) Participating financial institutions to submit   (i) These have been improved, though many PFIs are
(5) (4)                                            half-yearly reports to IDA.                  not timely in submitting reports.
(ii) This was postponed due to restructuring of the
(ii) Mid-Term Evaluation to be submitted to IDA  credit. MOA has produced a draft, submitted to
IDA in 12/93.



Schedule 5.10     C        03/31/89            Marketing Adviser to be recruited by MOA     The Advisor worked satisfactorily. His contract
(5) (5)                                                                                     ended 06/93.
Schedule 5        C                            Annual training program to be submitted to IDA    None
(5) (6)
Schedule 5        C        10/31/89            Malawi Bureau of Standards (MBS) to assume   MBS is so far following a voluntary export
(5) (7)                                        responsibility for export control for agricultural    certification scheme.
produce.
Schedule 5.9      CD       03/31/90            Borrower to analyze impact of market reform  GOM carried out market liberalization study in 1992.
(5)(8)                                         measures and propose any necessary changes in   IDA approved a GOM proposal to revoke market
regulations governing private traders.      regulations which were restrictive to the operations of
private traders, but the order revoking the 1987
regulations still has to be passed.
tatus:
-  Complied with
D  -  Compliance after delay
LP  -  Complied with partially                                                                                                                                N



30
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                   Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks         US$          Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$
Preparation to              n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        59.4       107.2
appraisal
Appraisal                   n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        22.4        23.8
Negotiations through        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         7.7         15.9
Board approval
Supervision                 n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        73.3         180
Completion                  26           67.2          n.a.        68.5         16.5          52
TOTAL                      n.a.         n.a.          n.a n.a.                167.3       379.7



31
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                   Specialized   Implementati  Development
Stage of             Month/             of         Days in     staff skills   status       objectives     Types of
project cycle            year           persons       field     representedA-                              problemst/
Identification         Apr.-May 1987           5            23       A,E,FA,I,M        n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
Preparation             Nov.1987               4            21       AE,C,MS,F         n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
A
Final Preparation/      Jan./Feb.1988         n.a.         n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal               May 1988              n.a.          n.a.         n.a.           n.a.         n.a.          n a.
Supervision      I      Apr.-May 1990          1            28           AE             2             2             M
2     Oct. 1990               1            10           AE             3             3
3     April 1991              2           12           E,AE            3             3            M
4Y    Nov.-Dec.1991           3            5        AE,A,MS,C          3             3            M
5-'   June-July 1992         3            15          AE(3)            2             2            M
6     April-May 1993          3.          25          AE(3)            2             2            F
7~  Dec.1993                 4             5         AE(3),FA          2             2            F
8-'   June-July 1994         3             5         AE(2),C          SE-           S             F
__7_    Nov.-Dec.1995            1            15           AE             sv            S-1
r    A = Agronomist; E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; I Irrigation Engineer; MS = Marketing Specialist.
AE = Agricultural Economist; C = Credit Specialist.
k    M = Management; F = Financial
i'   Sector/Multiple Project Supervision Missions.
'   Mission of Task Manager in Lilongwe, Resident Mission of World Bank
'   Satisfactory.






Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memiore



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MA L4 WI
A GRICUL TURA4L MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (AMED)
(CR.1966-AL4I)
Aide-Memoire
A.   Introduction
1.    An FAO/WB Cooperative mission comprising Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/ Mission
Leader), P.V.A. Rama Rao (Credit Specialist/Consultant), visited Malawi from 30 April to 15
May 1996 for the preparation of the ICR of the above project. The mission held meetings in
Lilongwe with the concerned officials of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock Development (MOALD), Ministry of Local Government (MOLG), the Reserve
Bank of Malawi (RBM), and the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC). Intensive working
sessions with staff of the various Participating Financing Institutions (PFIs) including the
Investment and Development Bank (INDEBANK), Investment and Development Fund
(INDEFUND), Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDOM), National Bank of
Malawi (NBM), Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM), as well as with officials of the Malawi
Bureau of Standards (MBS) and the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
(ADMARC) were held in Blantyre. The mission also had the opportunity to meet some of the
PFIs' clients including private traders that benefited under the project. Valuable advice and
guidance were received from staff of both the FAO Representation and World Bank Resident
Mission in Malawi including the Task Manager of AMED.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended to it by the
Government of Malawi (GOM) and its agencies. The mission's findings and recommendations
indicated below, are subject to review and confirmation by the WB management.
B.    Background
3.    The AMED project was appraised in May 1988 and was approved by IDA on 1
December 1988. The Credit was signed on 31 March 1989 and became effective on 9 June 1989.
The principal objectives of the project were to improve agricultural marketing and increase rural
incomes as well as to improve resource utilization and productivity on estates by providing
medium-term credit to intensify and diversify production. The project, expected to be
implemented over a period of seven years, included the following components:
* Credit for Estate Development, Agro-industries and for the Pilot Credit Scheme for Rural
Merchants;
* Institutional Development; and



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Market infrastructure.
4.    Total project cost was estimated at US$28.3 million, to be financed as follows: IDA
credit US$18.3 million (SDR 14.2 million equivalent), PFIs US$3.2 million, borrowers US$6.2
million and GOM US$0.6 million.
C. Project Implementation
General
5.    Overall, project implementation can be considered satisfactory and completed at the end
of 1995 in line with the schedule foreseen at appraisal. However, some delays were experienced
initially due to procedural constraints. Furthermore, the warehouse certificate scheme did not
materialize while funding for the small estates did not pick-up to the expected level. Consequent
to the restructuring of the project, project funds were diverted for urgent drought recovery
assistance in 1992. It mixed up in the chronic overdue loans of SACA. Implementation
performance of individual components is given below.
Credit
6.    Estate Development. The project had sought to improve resource utilization and
productivity on estate lands by providing Medium-Term Credit to intensify and diversify crop
production. Originally, three PFIs, namely, CBM, NBM and INDEBANK, were identified to
participate in the project. Although the project was designed to channel at least 50% of the credit
to subprojects on small estates, on the basis of "first come-first serve" approach, the PFIs have
catered mainly to the needs of the medium and large estates. As a result of an IDA supervision
mission, following a suggestion of INDEBANK, it was decided in 1994 to include INDEFUND
among the PFIs to specifically meet the credit requirements of the small estates.
7.    In all, loans disbursed by the PFIs for estate development aggregated MKl 6.1 million
spread over 86 beneficiaries. At project completion, loans to large and small estates amounted to
about MK14.9 million (92.5%) and MK1.2 million (7.5%), respectively. The small estates were
assisted exclusively by INDEFUND.
8.    Contrary to the expectations of the SAR, the inadequate participation of the CBM and
NBM in financing the small estates was due, among other things, to heavy risk apprehension,
absence of acceptable collateral and high operational costs. However, INDEFUND, which is the
specialized institution for small loans with staff adequately trained, could take up the financing
of the small estates with the provision of a larger interest spread.
9.    In line with the SAR, the purpose of the loans issued to large estates included mainly land
improvement (irrigation), development and rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure (tobacco
2



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
curing barns, storage sheds), purchase of tractors and implements, and livestock. Similarly,
INDEFUND loans covered diversification of tobacco estates to sunflower, soyabeans,
commercial maize besides livestock.
10.   The credit repayment performance of the subprojects financed by INDEBANK and
INDEFUND is considered satisfactory at about 90%. The NBM had defaults in 11 out of 56
subprojects while the performance of the CBM loanees was reported to be only 50% despite the
fact that all its loans were for purchase of tractors. However, the four PFIs were prompt in
repaying their dues to the RBM.
11.   Drought Recovery Assistance. Implementation progress for the first three years of the
project was very slow, primarily due to the reluctance of PFI's to extend credit particularly to the
small estate subsector, which was perceived to have high risks and transaction costs. As a result
of a supervision mission in November 1991, the GOM and IDA prepared an action plan to
improve project performance, including restructuring the credit component to allow use of
project funds for incremental seasonal credit. Accordingly, SDR 4.2 million was reallocated to
SACA in 1992 to support smallholder farmers by way of fresh credit as part of the urgent
drought recovery measures. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was suitably amended
for the purpose, enlarging the project objectives to cover drought recovery efforts. SACA
utilized the allocation up to SDR 3.9 million in its normal lending activities.
12.   As indicated in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) relative to the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 1851 -MAI), the indiscriminate lending of SACA in the
1991/92 season, coupled with undue external interventions in the recovery process, has resulted
in a very poor recovery performance of 15%. In the absence of any separate accounts maintained
for the utilization of funds realised from different sources, the above project funds got mixed up
with the chronic overdues of SACA aggregating MK250 million at the time of its takeover by the
Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) in 1994. The amendment to the DCA, as a result of
the restructuring of the AMED project, was silent as to the repayment obligations of SACA. For
the recovery of overdue loans of SACA, MRFC had drawn up a strategy in 1995 which included
rescheduling of the defaults over a period of 3-4 years, waiver of interest and sanction of fresh
loans.
13.   Agro-industrial Subprojects. The project envisaged financing for the development or
rehabilitation of agro-industrial and storage facilities as well as for the purchase of transport
equipment. In the SAR, 17 such projects were identified involving an outlay of MKI 1.55
million. As against this program, only nine units were finally supported under the project with
loans aggregating MK7.7 million or 67% of SAR estimates and have covered tea, coffee, cotton,
vegetable oil, seed and dairy processing activities. The less than expected off-take of credit
under this component was mainly due to inadequate expertise with the commercial banks in the
appraisal and monitoring of such activities. Seven out of the nine sub-projects were financed by
INDEBANK because of its special expertise in this area besides its nexus with the target group
of clientele on account of its specialization.
3



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
14.   The project also expected to cover provision of working capital loans to traders against
the security of warehouse receipts of ADMARC. In spite of the fact that ADMARC had widely
publicised the availability of such facilities in the rural areas, the scheme did not materialize due
to the procedural constraints in developing and operating such a scheme.
15.   Pilot Credit Scheme for Rural Merchants. The scheme, to be implemented by
SEDOM, was formulated to help the small private traders to gain access to the rural markets with
short-term credit for working capital and medium-term credit for investments in storage,
processing and transport. While no medium-term loans could be given due to inadequate credit
allocation, the financing for working capital could commence after a delay of more than two
years due to procedural constraints i.e. getting the necessary clearance for individual loan
sanctions from RBM and IDA.
16.   SEDOM expanded significantly from lending about MK 0.7 million to six traders in
1992/93 to a level of over MK30.0 million covering 340 traders in 1994/95. In the following
year, it started lending to retail input dealers. Coverage of women beneficiaries stood at about
20%. Due to its effective lending and supervision procedures, besides provision of essential
advisory services, SEDOM achieved nearly a 100% loan recovery performance.
17.   Encouraged by these successful operations, both GOM and IDA reallocated funds to
SEDOM doubling its original share to SDR 2.6 million. The final allocation was fully utilized.
SEDOM has been passing on its loan recoveries to RBM, annually, as stipulated in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA). Its request for recycling the recoveries for a period of three
years has been agreed upon by RBM effective from the year 1995/96. SEDOM further requested
RBM to allow the establishment of a loan-fund with the resource support to initiate medium-term
lending operations as well, so that the pilot scheme, with its demonstrative success, could be
made a regular scheme.
Institutional Development
18.   The Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS). To assist the MPS in fulfilling its policy
formulation and market support functions, the project provided resources for technical assistance
which included 3 man-years of an internationally recruited Marketing Adviser who was able to
comply with his TOR. The Rural Financial Specialist supposed to implement and monitor the
pilot credit scheme under SEDOM, was not recruited as the latter did not feel the necessity for
such an expert from outside. The proposed organizational set-up of MPS, as foreseen at
appraisal, included a total of seven economists against which only three are actually in position.
Overall, considerable achievement has been made in the implementation of the mandate for
market liberalization by MOALD through amending or repeating legislation and policies
restricting the participation of private traders in agricultural marketing. Thus, marketing of all
crops (except maize) and agricultural inputs has been liberalized, lifting the monopoly of
4



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
ADMARC. However, control by Government on trading in maize is continuing due to its
strategic importance as the main food crop in Malawi.
19.   The MOALD regularly collects farm commodity price information for about sixteen
crops and three livestock products from 45 rural markets. However, analysis and dissemination
of price information through mass media is done only in respect of five food crops (maize,
cassava, rice, groundnuts and beans) and three livestock products (beef, goat meat and pork)
collected from 18 markets.
20.   Marketing extension services had not received the required attention. At project design,
no funds were allocated for market extension on the assumption that this service would be
performed by existing ADD credit and marketing officers. These officers were, however, totally
occupied with the credit functions of SACA/MRFC. Further, given the inclusion of rural
merchants as project beneficiaries, the collection and publication of agricultural input prices,
especially seeds and fertilizers, should also have been covered by the publicity campaign of the
MPS. One issue that remains unresolved is the conflicting interests of private traders and
ADMARC. Harmonization of their roles is an imperative in the overall context of market
liberalization.
21.   Training. The Planning Division of MOALD, in conjunction with SEDOM,
INDEFUND, ADMARC and Development of Malawian Traders Trust (DEMATT) conducted
marketing courses for private traders as well as for the staff of MPS and ADDs covering subjects
like book and record-keeping, accounts and storage. Special care was taken to ensure that all the
prospective SEDOM beneficiaries, including women, were adequately trained under the
program. All the training courses were carried out using resources persons from different
organizations and the in-house skills of the MOALD.
22.   Export Quality Control. The project provided funds to MBS to procure laboratory
equipment, and vehicles. Additional staff, including a scientific officer, two technical assistants
and two technical officers were recruited. Six months of TA for export quality control was
provided. Under the training component, six MBS officials were sent for study tours abroad.
Project implementation was delayed for about two years due to conflict in the funding
arrangements on a reimbursable basis. In consonance with the liberalization policy, quality
control testing of agricultural export items became optional. In the circumstances, the tests
conducted by MBS declined from about 4,600 in 1992 to 2,550 in 1994. Similarly, during the
same period, export certificates issued slipped from 51 to 27. The opening up of in-house
facilities by the tobacco bodies and certain foreign importers of Malawian goods entrusting the
quality certification work to their foreign agent in Malawi has further contributed to the declining
business of MBS, rendering gross underutilization of the facilities provided under the project.
23.   Market Infrastructure. Out of the 16 district markets to be constructed and /or
rehabilitated by the project, only 12 were completed, three through LCB and the remaining on
force account. All the constructed markets are collecting revenues by charging fees to the
5



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
vendors but no guidelines either for fee collection or for the running of the markets were evolved.
A study of six markets conducted by the MOLG has revealed lack of financial viability in their
operations. The poor drainage design and the structural deficiencies in the Lunzu, Chilumba and
Lizulu markets contributed to the underutilization of the facilities.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
24.   Actual project cost is estimated at US$25.4 million. The IDA credit of SDR 14.2 million,
equivalent to US$19.8 million, was fully disbursed. Other disbursements included GOM US$0.4
million, PFIs US$1.8 million and borrowers contribution US$3.4 million.
E. Institutional Performance
25.   Project Management. The project management was entrusted jointly to MOALD and
RBM, the former to coordinate the institutional development as well as the pilot credit scheme,
while RBM was made responsible for the implementation of the credit component. In addition,
two coordinating committees were set up to oversee the implementation of the project. The
Marketing Committee (MC) was headed by the Secretary of MOALD and the Estates and Agro-
industries committee (EAC) by the Secretary of MOF. The MC and EAC were meeting
regularly, but their effectiveness was undermined by the following factors:
* dichotomy in the responsibility for credit component management between RBM and MOF;
* lack of continuity in the membership of the committees;
* absence of senior members, including the chairmen, in the Committee meetings; and
* non-involvement of the M&E unit of MoALD in the project monitoring activities.
26.  In the above context, the project management suffered from the lack of unity of
commnand. This has also contributed to the delays experienced at the project start. Further, the
capability of the M&E Unit, responsible for the mid-term evaluation and completion report, was
impaired by the insufficient flow of project data and information from the implementing agencies
and MCs.
27.   MOALD. As described in para 5, the financing of the small estates has not proceeded as
planned and only 8 out of the 285 foreseen at appraisal were supported by the project. The issue
of poor off-take of credit by this important sub-sector, calls for a closer examination of the
constraints as well as introduction of credit extension to this vulnerable sector.
28.   Drought Recovery Assistance. The country's frequent droughts warrant a national
policy for drought relief and rehabilitation with a package of contingency plans. While credit
support is organized to smallholders, no such facilities are extended to the small estate subsector
in drought years. The restructuring for the project, following the drought in 1991/92, diverted
6



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
funds meant mainly for small estates to the smallholders subsector through SACA. Although
assistance to smaliholders is a priority, the interests of the small estate holders should not have
been ignored. Furthermore, the decision to reallocate project funds to SACA was reported to
have been taken without consulting the PFIs and contrary to the views of the interministerial
meeting of GOM.
29.   Project Audit. The project audit was generally in arrears and audit for 1994/95 is still
not completed. The auditors have been repeatedly pointing out the inadequacies in the
maintenance and reconciliation of the project accounts.
F. Project Sustainability
30.   As indicated in chapter C, most project activities have been implemented satisfactorily
and in general appear sustainable. The major problem regarding sustainability relates to SACA
lending operations characterized by absence of recovery. However, provision of short-term
credit through SACA was not foreseen at project design stage. The MBS operations will
continue to be sustainable with GOM financial support. Similarly, the local markets, presently
faced with the problem of financial viability, are expected to be supported by the GOM.
G. Future Outlook
31.   It is the GOM intention to continue the implementation of the market reforms relating to
accessing the private traders to the rural markets. MOALD intends to propagate these policy
reforms through a national campaign to sensitize the public. The MPS still remains understaffed
(para 18). The GOM has agreed to fill up the vacancies without further delays with a view to
analysing the vast price information being collected from different markets throughout the
country to serve as an input for broader policy initiatives.
H. Key Lessons Learned
32.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
*  Commercial banks have been conservative in selecting subproject beneficiaries, with preference
towards their established customers, with the option given to them to adopt the "first come, first
served" approach. To better achieve the project objectives of providing credit equally to both
the small and medium/large estates, a firm banking plan should have been drawn up by RBM
and MOALD in consultation with PFIs.
* To improve the access of small estates to the PFIs, credit extension among target group and
skill impartation to the bank staff should have been built into the project.
7



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
*  The success of SEDOM operations, particularly with the women's groups, points to the need for
expanding group lending activities to the small rural traders.
* The medium-term credit to finance investment in storage under the Pilot Credit Scheme for
Rural Merchants did not materialize indicating the preference of private traders for quick
turnover and reluctance to create warehouse facilities in remote areas, besides non-availability
of adequate resource support to SEDOM.
*  The sophisticated laboratory equipment procured by the project for MBS, cannot be properly
maintained in the absence of spare parts locally. Basic spares should have been procured along
with the equipment.
* The rural markets are not run on a commercial basis by the Government agencies (local bodies).
In line with the trade liberalization policy, the GOM may explore the possibility of leasing out
these facilities to the private sector following the successful experience in other countries.
-  The presence of the World Bank Task Manager for the project in the local Resident Mission has
greatly facilitated timely interventions, and expeditious sorting out of problems.
3  Audit being the weakest link in the project, it remained always in arrears leading to ineffective
checks and controls. The design of the project should have provided funding for exclusive
staffing for the Project Audit and the training of the staff concerned in accounts and book-
keeping.
I.    Follow-up
33.   The mission will return to Rome on 16 May 1996. During the ensuing three weeks it will
prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by mid-June 1996. It is recommended
that the GOM may also finalize its ICR and send it to the WB before the end of June 1996.
8



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
List of Institutions Visited and Persons Met
Ministry of Agricultural and Livestock Development
Dr. A.S. Kumwenda        Controller of Agricultural Services
Mr. P.C. Kamwendo        Chief, Planning Division
Mr. Likotima             Chief Accountant
Mr. C. Nyirongo          Economist, Planning Division
Mrs. E. Manda            Economist, Planning Division
Dr. D.V. Kampani         Deputy CAETO
Mr. E.K Mphande          Principal Economist and Project Coordinator
Ministry of Finance
Mr. J. Chiteyeye         Deputy Secretary (Multilateral)
Mr. C. Kulumeka          Under-Secretary
Mr. K.A. Mphonda         Senior Assistant Secretary
Ministry of Local Government
Mr. A.C. Lwanda          Division Chief
Mr. H.H. Kumwenda        Project Officer
Mr. L. Chitawo           Clerk of Council (Lunzu Market)
Mrs. M. Mponda           Ass. Clerk of Council (Lunzu Market)
Mr. M. Mfune             Senior Finance Officer
Mrs. Z. Emanuel          Economist
Mr. Solomon MC Chirambo Economist
Reserve Bank of Malawi
Mr. T.S. Chinkhwangwa    Executive Assistant to the Governor
Mr. N.W. Somanje         Director, International Operations
Mr. E.K. Phiri           Division Chief
Mrs. J. Gundani          International Operations
Mr. C. Makileni          International Operations
9



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
ADMARC
Mr. E.B. Salifu           Dpt. General Manager
Mr. T. Chibwana           Ass. General Manager (Marketing)
National Bank of Malawi
Mr. N.T.G. Njikho         Corporate Banking Manager
Mr. V. Ngwira             Account Relationship Manager (Agri.)
Mr. E. Chamdima           Branch Manager
INDEBANK
Mrs. A. Valera            Controller of Operations
Mr. V.K.R. Ngwira         Company Secretary
Mr. P.Madinga             Project and Monitoring Officer
SEDOM
Mrs. E. Chioko            Acting General Manager
INDEFUND
Dr. Z.R. Chalira          General Manager
Mr. A. Shaba              Regional Manager
Mr. A. Chapota            Branch Manager
Mr. L.S. Mbulo            Assistant Branch Manager
COMMERCIAL BANK OF MALAWI
Mr. Dickenson             Dpt. General Manager, Lending.
Mr. C.K Chirambo          Manager, Agricultural Department
MALAWI BUREAU OF STANDARDS
Mr. A.S. Khulumula        General Manager
Mr. C. Malata-Chirwa      Director, Quality Assurance Services
10



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
MALAWI RURAL FINANCE COMPANY
Mr. S. Siddiqi            Chief Executive Officer
Mr. S.M. Murotho          Dpt. General Manager, Credit
Ms. I. Kalinga            Training Coordinator
WORLD FOOD PROGRAM MISSION
Mr. K. Kayira             National Officer
OFFICE OF FAO REPRESENTATIVE
Dr. H. Mikkola            FAO Representative in Malawi
Mr. J. Snell              Administrative Officer
Mr. M. Smart              Senior FAO/WFP Liaison Officer
WORLD BANK RESIDENT MISSION
Mr. A. Zulfiqar           World Bank Resident Representative
Mr. S. Hiwa               Agricultural Programme Officer
Mr. Sibale                Agricultural Research Specialist
Mr. F. M'buka             Agricultural Services Specialist
LINGADZI FARM LTD.
Mrs. J. Perepeczko        General Manager
NATIONAL SEED CO.
Mr. K. Whisler            Seed Manager
Mr. Jumbe                 Marketing Manager
LIZULU MARKET
Council Officials
11






Appendix B
Borrower's Contribution to ICR



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AI4LA WI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTA TE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (AMED)
(CR.1966-MA I)
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
1.    Project Objectives. The project's main objectives were developmental in nature. Firstly, to
improve the agricultural marketing of smaliholder crops and increase rural incomes by supporting
Government efforts to develop a multi-channel marketing system; and secondly, to improve the
resource utilization and productivity on estates by providing medium-term credit to intensify and
diversify production, particularly for smaller estates that have limited access to commercial
financing. In achieving these objectives, the project was to address the barriers to entry into
agricultural trade faced by Malawian entrepreneurs and the factors that constrain availability of
credit to estates, particularly the smaller estates established since independence by Malawian
owners. The Project was also to assist the Government in carrying out its regulatory, promotional,
and monitoring functions with regard to the private trade in smallholder crops.
2.    Project Coordination. The overall responsibility for the execution of the Project rested
with the MOALD and RBM. MOALD was responsible for coordinating the training of private
traders, the construction/rehabilitation of selected rural markets through the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development, and the institutional strengthening of Malawi Bureau of
standards and within the Ministry itself. The RBM was responsible for reviewing the project
appraisal reports prepared by the PFIs to verify eligibility criteria, disbursement/reimbursement of
funds, managing a special account under its component, maintaining disbursement records,
preparing for annual audits and submitting Audit and periodic reports, and project monitoring. To
help focus the management of the project two coordinating committees were established as follows:
i. a Marketing Committee (MC) was overseeing the implementation of the institutional
strengthening component, the pilot credit for rural traders and the market infrastructure
component.
ii. an Estates and Agro-industries Committee (EAC) was overseeing the implementation of the
credit lines through INDE BANK, CBM and NBM.
The two committees were meeting regularly. However, their effectiveness was undermined by lack
of continuity in the members that were attending the meetings. In view of the high costs associated
with establishing and operating a new institution focused on rural credit, the project used existing
financial institutions by expanding their scope.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
3.    The Project which was implemented over a period of seven years, consisted of the
following key activities:
i. estate development and agricultural marketing and processing:
ii. subprojects to intensify and diversify estate production;
iii. investment in support of agricultural processing and marketing; and
iv. a pilot scheme to finance the short and medium-term credit requirements of rural traders
specializing in the assembly, storage and transportation of smallhollder crops.
v. institutional strengthening in the Ministry off Agriculture and Livestock Development and the
Malawi Bureau of Standards to improve market policy analysis and develop market services,
including market intelligence, regulatory and quality control systems; and
vi. training of private merchants and construction and improvement of selected rural markets
identified as potential growth center for private trade in agricultural produce.
CREDIT COMPONENT
4.    The project provided funds through RBM for subprojects in support of the Government's
objectives of expanding and diversifying production in the estate subsector and developing a multi-
channel marketing system for smallholder crops. The funds helped meet the demand in the estate
subsector for medium-term credit and the credit needs emerging from the government's
liberalization of smallholder agricultural marketing. The funds were provided as loans through
existing financial institutions for subprojects that were technically and financially sound. The PFI
annually reviewed and revised their lending rates to ensure that they were in line with the overall
interest rate structure in the country, and adequate to obtain the project objectives. Each PFI had full
autonomy to approve or reject subprojects financed under the project. The PFIs were responsible
for subproject identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision. The financial institutions that
participated were NBM, CBM, INDE BANK and INDEFUND. INDEFUND became a PFI at a
later date (1995) to serve small scale estates. The institutions were combining their own funds with
the IDA funds to support the viable projects. A separate pilot credit scheme was operated by
SEDOM to address the credit needs of rural traders. In case of fluctuations of exchange rates,
beneficiaries could apply for additional funds whenever they experienced shortfalls due to price
fluctuations.
Estate Development and Agro-Industries subprojects.
5.    Disbursements through the PFIs started in February 1991. Some of the Estate Development
and Agro-Industries subprojects that got funding under the project were: tobacco, soybeans, paprika
and maize estates; dairy and poultry farms, cotton ginners, tea estates, processing and
manufacturing vegetable industries, purchasing of trucks, coffee cleaning and processing
2



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
machinery, warehouse, irrigation equipment, coffee growing, tea decaffeination plant, rose flower
growing, fish farming, rehabilitation of seed cleaning equipment, and expansion of seed factory
activities.
6.     Estates and agro-industries that were soundly managed, had evidence of clear title to land,
and were engaged in financially viable productive activities got financing under the project. The
credit facility was designed to reach the small estates as well as the larger and more diversified
estates. It was a condition that at least 50% or US $5.5 million of the US $11.0 million in IDA
funds earmarked for estate lending to be targeted for lending to small estates with a turnover of less
than US $200,000. Loans for larger estates were aimed at expanding tobacco production and
diversifying into other crops such as coffee, cotton, wheat, macadamia, etc., often through irrigation
schemes. Loans for small estates were aimed at financing investments in buildings and equipment
to expand and improve the quality of tobacco production and some diversification.
7.     Achievements: Disbursement under this sector favored large estates, as a result the project
budget was restructured to focus its resource support to SMEs through SEDOM and INDEFUND.
In addition SDR 4.2 million was reallocated to SACA for smallholder lending in the 1992/93
season. The main beneficiary of the refocusing has been trader sub-sector. The reallocation
improved the access of small enterprise sub-sector to loans. However, the pilot scheme has not
improved SMEs access to bank loans because the Bank's lack the expertise to assess, supervise, and
manage numerous small loans. The medium term lending provided for under the project was only
extended to larger enterprises and companies and most of the credit disbursed was seasonal.
Diversification has been achieved partially because prices were not attractive. Now the attitude has
changed with the liberalization of agricultural marketing; estates are now going into the production
of other cash crops such as soybeans and paprika. The recovery rate are not encouraging (Table 1.)
due to the successive three droughts from 1991/2 to 1994/95. The component has however
generated counterpart funds, part of which have contributed to the funding of SME which is aimed
at improving small and medium scale enterprises.
8.      Sustainability: The commercial banks feel that they will be able to sustain the activities
through their own resources and other lines of credit such as IDA Financial Sector and Enterprise
Development through RBM Credit 221-Mi.
Table 1. Credit component-disbursements and repayments to RBM
Bank          No. of          Recovery Rate (%)  Total Loan (MK)    Repayment (MK)  Balance (MK)
borrowers
Commercial Bank        13                48.8             1,727,668.6     843,937.1       883,731.50
National Bank          49                88.6             8,296,519.0      7,352,650       943,869.00
INDE Bank               13               44              12,118,484.4     5,367,716.9     5,367,716.90
Indefund               10               (100)             1,291,776.52         *          1,291,776.52
SEDOM                  438                 *             42,677,561.0          *               *
Total                  525                 *             66,112,009.54         *               *
Source: Reserve Bank of Malawi various statistics.
Note: (i)  * denotes information not available or incomplete.
(ii) the grace period for the PFIs and repayment schedule differed for the different PFIs.
3



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
9.    Lessons/Recommendations: In general the facility has progressed satisfactorily. However
there were some factors that affected the effectiveness of the program and lessons could be drawn
from them. Some of the lessons which could be learned from this project are as follows:
(i)  Choice of PFIs - the selection of PFIs was not suitable. Some PFIs e.g. INDE BANK
although they were willing to disburse the funds from the initial stage, they were established
to serve different clientele from the target group of the project. INDEBANK's investment
policy requires it to consider borrowers which are limited companies. While INDE BANK is
prevented by its policy to lend to small borrowers, CBM and NBM were reluctant to provide
medium term lending to small estates because of the poor experience they had with small
estates; so it was not considered viable to undertake medium-term lending to the same
borrowers.
(ii) Risk Bearing - The high degree of risk in lending to the small estates sub-sector, was not
given adequate consideration at the design stage of the project. Initially some PFIs were
reluctant to disburse the funds to small estates because lending to small estates was
considered to be risky.
(iii) High interest rates - the PFIs have benefited more than the target group because they were
being charged a preferential rate while the target group was paying the market rate. This also
made the funds unattractive to the final beneficiaries.
(iv) Collateral - from the initial stages funds did not reach the small estates due to the fact that the
small estates could not afford any collateral. Only those who were able to offer collateral
benefited from this project. Some projects took long to take off due to the PFIs reservations
on collateral.
(v)  For future funding of similar nature, that extensive consultations should be made for the
selection of the PFIs in order to come up with PFIs who may be willing to help small scale
estates to ensure maximum utilization of funds.
(vi) A credit guarantee scheme should be established a long with the credit lines of similar nature
in future so that small-medium size estate borrowers could be provided with seasonal and
medium-term loans on reasonable terms and without strict collateral requirements of
commercial banks.
Pilot Credit Scheme for Rural Merchants.
10.   A Crucial element of the Government's efforts when liberalizing smallholder trade was the
development of Malawian traders who operate in the rural markets purchasing crops from
smallholders. Such merchants operate on a small scale, have little collateral and have limited access
to formal credit markets. Thus, their ability to assume some of the responsibility for primary
marketing which were being handled by ADMARC was constrained by the lack of suitable
financing. To test mechanisms for delivering credit in a cost effective manner to such merchants, a
4



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
pilot scheme was implemented by SEDOM to channel funds to rural traders who had limited ability
to provide security. The pilot scheme was supposed to finance both short-term credit for working
capital and medium-term credit to finance investments in storage, processing and transport.
SEDOM was chosen as the intermediary for the pilot because of its experience with lendinsg to rural
enterprises. The project was supposed to provide the rural financial specialist who was to oversee
implementation of the pilot, but SEDOM did not want to employ the specialist because they had an
advisor in place already. According to the agreement between SEDOM and RBM, SEDOM was
expected to pay back all the short term loan by the 13th month following disbursement. However
during the course of implementation it was changed to five years to allow SEDOM to generate
enough savings.
11.   Achievements: The Pilot Credit Scheme implemented had financed only the short-term
credit for working capital. The medium term credit for transport, storage and processing was not
financed due to inadequate resources. The first disbursement to SEDOM was in June 1992, two and
half years after credit effectiveness. The condition for disbursement when the project just started
was that SEDOM had to submit the list of potential loanees to the Bank before disbursement. The
process was lengthy and tedious such that it resulted in delayed loan disbursement and made some
traders to miss the crops they were interested. After the recommendations of the mid-term review.,
the system was changed and disbursement commenced as soon as SEDOM had appraised the
borrowers' projects and the Bank only got informed. The scheme has proved a great success.
SEDOM's initial allocation was SDR1,100,000; after some reallocations it went up too
SDR2,200,000 and this has been fully utilized. In addition, the remaining funds (SDR150,000)
from the whole project has been allocated to SEDOM. SEDOM's loan disbursement performance
is shown in Table 2. SEDOM expanded significantly from lending from lending to about
MK700,000 to six traders in 1992/93, to lending to over MK30,000,000 to 340 traders in the
current year under the project and started issuing its first loans to fertilizer retailers in 1995/96.
SEDOM has also achieved 100% repayment on all its sub-loans to private traders.
Table 2.: SEDOM's Loan Disbursement
Year                              Number                     Value
1992/93                             6                        683.000
1993/94                             51                     3,589,510
1994/95                             111                    7,235,531
1995/96 (crop)                      188                   16,881,600
1995/96 (fertilizer)                154                   14,594,500
Total                               510                   42,984,141
12.   Sustainability: Despite the above successes, RBM  feels that SEDOM  is a weak PFI
because in the course of implementation, RBM had to arrange for management and operation audit
of SEDOM's activities with a view of improving the Sustainability of its operations. In addition not
5



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
withstanding the fact that they were being charged a preferential rate of 3% and in turn were getting
market rate from the final beneficiaries, SEDOM has requested for recycling the AMED funds.
13.   Lessons/Recommendations: The credit which was provided to traders under this
component was only for financing domestic marketing, there was no provision for funding exports.
For future funding we would like to recommend that export marketing should also be considered
for financing. The project had also failed to finance medium term lending for transport, storage and
processing. These functions are very critical for the development of marketing and we are
recommending that there is need to source financing of the activities.
Storage and Bonded Warehouse Scheme.
14.   The project in its design recognized the need for working capital and the lack of security for
most entrepreneurs, therefore the project had proposed promoting the establishment of warehousing
facilities through ADMARC and in the process security for working capital would be provided
through the commodities which the merchants were to store. The system was not implemented
because it was a complicated system that needs to be well designed and the market system here is
not well developed for the scheme to be implemented.
INSTITUTIONAL AND MARKETING INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
15.   At the start up of the project two steering committees were set up to oversee lending. Estate-
Agro-industry Committee was responsible for overseeing the lending operations by commercial
banks while the Marketing Committee was charged with overseeing SEDOM's pilot credit scheme
and other components of institutional strengthening and marketing infrastructure development.
However, the committees took a long time to meet after the project implementation had started.
This delayed resolution of problems affecting the projects during the early implementation. After
constant pressure from the World Bank project review missions, the committees became functional
and project activities started taking a good shape. However, the committee's effectiveness was
undermined by lack of continuity in the members that attended the meetings. Again, the slowing
down of project activities as the project was coming to an end, the irregularity and non-continuity
of members increased.
Agricultural Export Quality Control
16.   The objective of the project under this component was to establish and implement an export
quality control system for the agricultural products. This was to be achieved by putting in place
base facilities and infrastructure for national agricultural export quality control system and
establishing procedures for testing quality. The component was implemented by Malawi Bureau of
Standards.
17.   Achievements: Excellent facilities are in place for setting and controlling quality standards
and staff have been trained in the field of agricultural product quality control. The facilities have
been used to test more than agricultural export products. MBS formulated standards for the
6



MALAWL Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
following products tobacco, sunflower, tea, maize, chilies, cashew nuts, macadamia, pigeon peas,
hides and skins, garden peas, beans, cow peas, wheat grain. Though took MBS an initiative to
publicize its facilities and services by sending written materials to traders and exporters around the
world and conducting quality control training for private traders within the country, the demand of
those services have been on the decline as testing for quality is not mandatory under the agricultural
produce marketing liberalization. Very few exporters and importers have used MBS facilities to test
and certify their products at a subsidized rate, that is, not justifying the large investment. Some
importers and exporters have misunderstood the concept of marketing liberalization as a result they,
export or import their produce without inspection and certification to comply with standards. There
is danger that the produce they are importing and exporting would have some disadvantages to the
economy as a whole. Funds provided by the project for quality control awareness workshops were
not adequate. The public needs to be educated about the importance of testing and quality control
to the country's economy. Wvhile liberalization was being promoted under the project, a mechanism
would also have been worked to ensure that importers, exporters and manufacturers have their
products tested for conformnity to the set quality standards. Again, in 1995/96 fiscal year MBS was
not funded for operational expenses and replacement of vital equipment.
Table 3: Quality Certification Tests done at MBS
Year            Number of samples       Number of export       Export certificates
tested                samples                 issued
1992                 4,586                     152                    5 1
1993                 2,494                     60                     56
1994                 2,551                    200                     27
18.   In terms of project design, the role of some organizations such as MEPC and MCC was
completely missed out. These organizations would have assisted in publicizing MBS facilities. As
little is known about the facilities at MBS at world level, importers use Society Generale de
Surveillance to certify quality of exports from Malawi. This n competes with MBS in certification
of product quality though uses MBS facilities. Importers and exporters incur higher costs when
certification is done by SGS as SGS's costs from MBS are passed onto them. MBS facilities have
been used to certify quality of agricultural and other products not necessarily for export.
Sustainability: MBS will continue providing its services at a lower level by using the resources
generated through fees collected from their customers who come for their services.
Marketing and Pricing Policy Reforms
19.   Under this component, MoALD through Planning Division was to analyze and formulate
marketing and pricing policies with the objective of facilitating the development of an effective
private marketing system in Malawi. The activities of the component were complementary to those
of the Agricultural Sector Assistance Program (ASAP) financed by United States of America for
Intemnational Development (USAID).
7



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
20.   Achievements: Though under persistent understaffing situation, considerably achievement
has been made as policies and legislation that restricted private traders participation in agricultural
marketing have been either repealed or amended. Policy studies on fertilizer, maize, seed were
carried out and the overall outcome is that agricultural produce i.e. all crops except maize and input
marketing has been liberalized for farm inputs like fertilizers, seeds, equipment and chemicals. A
controlled liberalization of maize, through a price-band has been implemented because of the
strategic importance of the crop to the nation as a whole. Monopoly by ADMARC, a parastatal has
been broken and private traders now participate in trading of agricultural produce and inputs. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development intends to support the policy reforms by
carrying out a national policy reform campaign to sensitize the public on potential business
investment opportunities in the agriculture and livestock sector.
Market Extension and Training
21.   In order to encourage private participation in agricultural produce and inputs trading,
Planning Division was allocated funds to conduct marketing courses for private traders.
22.   Achievements: MoALD's Planning Division in conjunction with SEDOM, INDEFUND,
ADMARC and DEMATT conducted marketing courses for private traders and covered subjects
like book and record keeping, storage. The training of private traders will be conducted by other
specialized independent organizations in future like MEDI, DEMATT. As for marketing extension,
no funds were allocated when the project was starting. It was assumed that Credit and Marketing
Officers who were already in place at that time would be used to discharge the activity. However,
these officers were more concerned with disbursement and recovery of credit funds under SACA,
now MRFC as a result there was no marketing extension. Having observed this shortfall, funds
were allocated under the project to establish and fill the posts of Marketing Officers in the three
ADDs (Mzuzu, Lilongwe and Blantyre) first, then if additional funds were identified it could be
extended to other ADDs later. Construction or identification of Marketing Officers' houses is
completed in the three places.
Market Price and Information System
23.   In line with agricultural market liberalization, the Ministry implemented the market price
and information system to assist farmers/producers, traders and consumers to make rational
decisions regarding production, marketing and consumption. It was designed that the existing
structures within the government should be used to carry out this activity. The USAID has co-
financed this activity.
24.   Achievements: The Ministry through Agro-Economic Survey, a branch of Planning
Division regularly collects farm commodity price information for about sixteen crops and three
livestock products from forty five rural markets. However, analysis and dissemination of price
information through radio and newspapers, is only done for five crop commodities (grain maize.
cassava roots, polished rice, groundnuts and general beans) and three livestock commodities (beef,
8



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
goat meat and pork) from eighteen markets. Though this is a positive move, there is need to
increase number of markets and the commodities covered to reflect the widening of private trader
participation into different crops, livestock products and farm inputs. The dissemination of farm
inputs prices could also be very important, especially to the producers and traders. In addition price
information should be systematically analyzed to make an input into policy making process within
MoALD. This is already taking shape with pricing of maize and should be extended to other
commodities. Again reporting the commodity price against the previous year's price is not really
relevant as the value of the Kwacha fluctuates over long periods. Price information over a
reasonably short period is more relevant to the various parties in the trade.
25.   Sustainability: The Ministry will continue collecting and disseminating price information
using financial resources under Agricultural Sector Assistance Program funded by USAID.
Marketing and Sanitation Infrastructure Development
26.   This component's objective wasto provide better market access, improved facilities for
storage, display and handling of commodities. Secondly, it aimed at providing improved sanitation
facilities. Specifically, it was designed to provide:
(a)  The rural markets with better access to facilitate easy and fast transportation of commodities
to markets for the smallholder farmers.
(b)  improved structural facilities which would promote better economical utilization of space;
handling of commodities in a hygienic manner and preserving food value for the benefit of
smallholder farmers or vendors and buyers,
(c)  good market storage facilities which would handle increased capacity of commodities brought
by smallholder farmers to the market and dispose them at wholesale thereby reducing
overhead costs,
(d)  improved sanitation facilities in order to reduce the danger of communicable diseases which
could be caused due to poor sanitation facilities at public replaces.
27.   These facilities were to be provided at the following places: Chitipa Boma, Chilumba in
Karonga District, Chintheche in Nkhata bay District and Embangweni in Mzimba District in the
Northern Region; Ntchisi Boma, Mvera in Dowa District, Nkhota kota Boma, Chipoka in Salima
District, Chimbiya in Dedza District, Lizulu in Ntcheu District in the Central Region and Lunzu in
Blantyre District, Mayaka in Zomba District, Nsanje Boma, Mkando in Mulanje District and
Makande in Chikwawa District. The places were chosen because of their accessibility to farmers,
assemblers and transporters, the volume of produce being handled and their potential of developing
into wholesale and storage centers.
28.   Achievements: Though construction started almost one year after the project was signed,
some progress has been achieved. About twelve of the sixteen planned markets have been
9



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
constructed; all of them in the North, four in the Center and three in the South. Infrastructures built
in these places range from store rooms, small offices, display and selling sheds, hawkers to animal
slaughter slabs or houses . In some cases sanitation facilities like toilets have also been elected to
reduce danger of communicable diseases as the places are highly patronized by the public
especially on market days. Three markets were constructed through Local Competitive Bidding and
nine were constructed through Force Account (Direct Labor). Four markets have not been
constructed due to slow flow of funds and slowness on the part of the implementors to justify the
markets' financial viability and sustainability. Funding proposals are being submitted to other
donors for consideration to start construction of the four markets.
29.   The major problem of some of these various marketing structures is that they are not used to
the expected capacity because most them were either poorly designed, constructed or located within
the existing markets. A good example of poor design and positioning of these structures is the
Lizulu market. It cannot be said that sanitation has improved when the toilets are just next to the
butchery and the smells from the toilets are blown over the whole market area. Due to poor design,
rain water flows over the display and selling sheds because they are not raised, bringing in the mud.
Again, Chilumba market is also located where people, especially sellers are not willing to operate
from. There have been conflicts in some cases between traditional leaders and the councils in
locating of the markets. Since farmers and traders are not fully utilizing these structures, the
Government is losing revenue which could be used for further improvement of the marketing and
sanitation facilities.
30.   Sustainability: In piinciple, an agreement has been reached that 50% of the loaned funds
will be a grant to the district council local authorities and 50% will be the repayable loan and
interest. MoLGRD will establish a revolving fund from the grant. In addition to the grant, market
fees and rental payments will be put into the revolving account in order to sustain the project
activities.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   This project was a bit complex in the sense that it covered several areas. The project
implementation started on 31st March 1989 and disbursement closed in February 1996. It was
jointly managed by MoALD and RBM. MoALD coordinated the training of private traders, the
construction and rehabilitation of market infrastructures by MoLGRD and the institutional
strengthening of MBS and within the Ministry itself. RBM was responsible for channeling credit
funds to PFIs such as SEDOM, INDEFUND, INDE BANK, Commercial Bank of Malawi and
National Bank of Malawi. As already outlined above in achievement of objectives, different
components had their own major factors affecting them. For the credit scheme and the credit
component, the funds made available to them were not adequate to serve all the applicants. Again,
most PFIs were very liquid at the beginning of the project as such there could not absorb the loans
that were made available to them. PFIs with limited financial resources could only provide loan to
few customers under expenditure-reimbursement system. The drought experienced in the previous
four years greatly affected the agricultural and livestock production, consequently affecting the
operations of private traders and also servicing of bank loans by borrowers. Testing and
10



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
certification of agricultural products was indirectly affected by the drought. The market
infrastructure development was affected by delays in receiving funds which were being channeled
through MoALD and the local competitive bidding which was preferred by the Bank other than the
use of cheap force account.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   There are chances that activities which have been implemented under the project will be
sustained. Lending institutions will use their local financial resources to assist the borrowers. Some
of these institutions have or are in the process of getting other credit line facilities which they will
use to expand their lending portfolio. For market development, fees and rents paid by sellers in the
markets will be channeled into revolving fund and be used to sustain activities initiated by the
project.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
33.   The performance of the Bank has been satisfactory. There were minimal problems in the
flow of funds and the review missions done biannually were very helpful in the overall
implementation of the project. The Bank was also flexible to reallocate funds from unspent
categories to the better progressing ones.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   Generally the borrower has successfully implemented the project. Mechanisms to sustain
the activities initiated by the project have been instituted.
ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOME
35.   The overall project results are satisfactory and welcome as government has removed trade
barriers on all agricultural produce and inputs with the exception of maize; employment has been
created under private trade and financial position of the lending institutions has improved,
subsequently expanding the lending portfolio; rural incomes have increased thereby contributing to
reduction of rural poverty. Good marketing and sanitation infrastructure have improved the
marketing process and sanitation facilities have built to reduce communicable diseases. Quality
control equipment would improve the quality of agricultural produce to be consumed domestically
and internationally. All these contribute significantly to the overall developmental goal of the
government and they need to be maintained and expanded.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   The choice of PFIs was not done in full consultations with the relevant financial lending
institutions as is clearly seen in the conflicts of their lending policies, in terms of clientele and type
of loan, interest rates. For example most PFIs considered lending to SMEs a high risk yet the
project allocated funds under the project for onward lending to that class of borrowers.
11



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
37.    The project was quite complex as it cut across several sectors or areas hence coordination
was not always done well.
38.    The design of the quality control for agricultural produce was faulty in the sense that it left
out some of the major organizations that would have played a crucial role.
FUTURE OPERATION
39.    In future, especially for projects of similar nature there is need to do extensive consultations
with relevant bodies to minimize conflicts. Again, though most projects are multidisciplinary in
nature, effort should be made to keep the size of implementors as manageable as possible. These
will facilitate implementation as coordination would be easy.
12



Appendix C
Miscellaneous Information



I



Table 1: Rescheduling Scheme for SACA Loans
As at 31 March 1994, MRFC took over from SACA defaulted loans totaling MK254
million. As the recoveries of these loans were very poor, MRFC, in consultation with MOALD
and Treasury Department of GOM as well as IDA, formulated in April 1995 a strategy whereby:
Chronic defaults totaling MK4.5 millions (i.e. 2% of the total) were written off. These
loans were issued prior to 1987-88 (i.e. overdue for over 5 years), which, according to SACA
rules, were required to be fully provided for.
Other defaults totaling MK249.5 millions (i.e. 98% of the total) were proposed to be
rescheduled over a period of 3-4 years, depending on the size of the defaulted loans.
The rescheduling scheme provided for, apart from recovery of the defaulted loans in easy
installments spread over 3-4 years, a waiver of interest from the date of rescheduling and
sanction of fresh seasonal loans, as soon as the first installment of the rescheduled loans was paid
in accordance with the usual terms of MRFC. Thus, the amnesty scheme provided for the
defaulters to come clear of their old debts and enter afresh the credit system. It was understood
that the defaulters not joining the scheme would be subjected to legal action.
MRFC gave wide publicity to the scheme and pressed its field staff to educate its
prospective clients on the incentives offered to the defaulters to re-enter the formal credit system.
The amount to be rescheduled at MK250 million relating to loans issued from 1988-89 to
1993-94 was spread over 38,400 clubs with some 20 to 25 defaulting members in each club. Of
this, defaults in respect of loans issued following 1991-92 drought aggregated MK130.5 million,
constituting over 50% of the total defaults spread over 13,000 clubs (i.e.34% of the defaulting
clubs).
Despite the incentive package, the response to the scheme was not very encouraging; at
end of December 1995 only a little over 2,000 clubs (5%) involving an amount of MK32 million
(12.8%) joined the scheme. Of these, 1,400 clubs repaid the first installment amounts of MK2.8
million for a fresh loan entitlement of over MK38 million (Table 1).



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 1: Rescheduling Scheme for SACA Loans
Malawi Rural Finance Company Limited
Head Office Saca Loan Rescheduling Report (Summary) As At 05/01/96
BRANCH                         KARONGA                    MZUZV                    KASUNGU                    SALIMA                  LILONGWE                  MACHINGA                  BLANTYRE                SHIRE VALLEY                 TOTALS
Activities                 No         Amount         No         Amount        No         Amount         No         Amount         No         Amount         No         Amount         No         Amount         No         Am.out        No         Amount
(MK)                     (MK)                      (MK)                      (MK)                      (MK)                      (MK)                      (MK)                     (MK)                      (MK)
a  Inquiri.es reeivd      291        1,122,895      754        8,S52,403      1,443      5,796,754      556       4,042,951      1,745      31,026,533     1,217      8,891,158       371       1,827,000      236        261410        6,613      61,821,104
b  Applihctions            144        415,671       240        1,943,902      107        1,486,412      161        1,173,134      939       22,525,802      535       4,895,280       82         946,881        168        194,537      2,376      33,581,619
reeived
c. Applications rejected   25         47,926         3          2,399          0            0            0            0            7         210,554        73         809,888         0            0            0            0           108       1,070,767
d  Applictions under        0            0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0           0            0            0
process
e  Applications            119        367,743       231        1,874,051      104        1,558,481      141        1,013,903      932       22,315,248      462       4,085,392       82         946,881        168        194,537      2,239      32,356,236
approved
I'..)     f  Approved as
i, I yr rescheduling    8          6,071         32         98,608          0            0            0            0           48         175,628        0            0            0            0            0            0           88         280,306
ii, 2 yr                56        214,467        42         235,269        24         347,750        32         95,030         96        863,899        137        808,771         24         67.924         59        48,492         470       2,681,602
rescheduling
iii, 3 yr               38        114,643        146       1,325,104       52         787,231        42         390,015       443       10,573,319      146        1,382,743       36        542,373        64         71,793         967       15,187,221
rescheduling
iv, 4 yr                17         32,562         11        215,071        28         423,500        67         528,858       345       10,702,402      179       1,893,879        22        336,584        45         74,252         714      14,207.108
rescheduling
g  First year              54         28,866         154       339,511        124        271,718        101        276,094        474        765,930        388       1,009,429       31         17,730         112        47,683        1,438     2,757,141
rescheduling
installment received
h  Customer                119        367,744       226        1,869,325       89       3,648,266       101       4,315,318       705      23,696,217      462        4,085,392       31         17,730         168        194,537       1,901     38,194,529
entitlement for 95/96
calculation
i Actual ne               74        1,296,185       52        1,332,321       43        1,164,066       10        225,564         8         204,823         53       1,262,250        0            0            0            0          240        5,484,209
applications
reeived from
appl_ct_nts



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 2: Project Financing and Disbursement
Category                                                                IDA"                GOM-                  Bank?         |    Borrowere                Total
1.   Market & Estate Credit                                      ....................................................................(US000) .................................
- IA                                                               4,880                   -                  1,2201               2,030J                8,130
- IB                                                               2,412                   -                   6001                I,0083                4,020
- 2 (SEDOM)                                                        3,871                   -                    -                   4304'               4,301
Sub-total                                                         11,163                   -                  1,820                3,468                16,451
11.  Drought Recovery Assistance (SACA)                                 5,347                   -                    -                    -                  5,347
III. Marketing Infrastructure                                             875                   63                                                             938
IV. Institution Strengthening
- TA                                                               1,058                   -                                                             1,058
- Vehicles                                                           731                   -                                                              731
- Including Operating Costs5l                                        591                  108                                                             699
- Training                                                           -                    195                                                             195
Sub-total                                                          2,380                  303                   -                    -                  2,683
Total                                                                  19,765                  366                 1,820                3,468               25,419
I/ IDA actual disbursement data.
' Provided by MOALD.
3 Mission estimates: Average rate of contribution: PFis at 15% and Borrower at 25% of total cost of subprojects.
4/ Mission estimates: Borrower's contribution: Average of 10% of total cost of subprojects.
F Including USS267,000 IDA disbursement under PPF.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 3: Kaliwoncra Estate Tobacco and Maize Farm - Cash Flow Projections1'
Without       .............................................  With Project .
Project
Year I       Year 2   |Year 3   | Year 4   | Year 5   |Year 6
1.  Cash In.low                                                     ............................................... (MK'000) . ........................................ 
- Revenucs                                         175            95           310           310           310           310           310
- Medium-term loans                                   -            36             -             -             -
- Short-term loans                                                 92
- Borrower's contribution                             -             58            -             -             -
Total Inflow                                         175           281           310           310           310          310           310
II. Cash Outflow
- Investment costs                                    -            94             -             -             -             -             -
- Operating costs                                    132           47            205           198           188           188           188
Total Outflow                                        132           141           205           198           188           188           188
|I111. Cash Balance before Debt Service                   43           140           105           112           122           122           122
IV. Debt Service
- Medium-term loan repaymentZ/                        -             19           19            19            19            19             -
- Short-term credit 3/                                             132            -             -             -             -
Total Debt Service                                    -            151           19            19            19            19             -
V.  Cash Balance after Debt Service                       43           (11)           86            93           103           103           122
VI. Incremental Cash Balance                                           (54)           43            50            60            60            79
Financial rate of retum: >50%
I/ Based on INDEFUND data: the analysis was carried out in constant 1994/95 prices.
?' Capital recovery factor applied (44% interest).
3' Repaid at the end of the year at 44% interest.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 4. Kahanje Tobacco and Poultry Farm - Cash Flow Projectionsl"
Without  .............................................. With Project .
Project
Year 1        Year 2   |   Year 3   |   Year 4   |   Year 5   |   Year 6
I.  C ash   Inflow                                                    .....................  ........  .................    (M K '000)  .............................  ...   .  ................................
Revenues:
- Tobacco                                           505           505            505           505           505            505           505
- Poultry                                            -            166            302           302           302            302           302
INDEFtJND Medium-term loan                                           153            -              -             -              -             -
Borrower's contribution                                 -            27             -              -             -              -
Total Inflow                                          505           851            807           807           807            807           807
II. Cash Outflow
Investment costs                                        -            180
Operating costs
- Tobacco                                            451           451            451           451            452           452            452
Total Outflow                                         451            773           600            600           600           600            600
III. Cash Balance before Debt Service                       54            78            207           207            207           207            207
IV. Debt Servicing'                                         -             80             80            80            80             80             -
V.  Cash Balance after Debt Service                         54            (2)           127           127            127           127            207
VI. Incremental Cash Balanec                                -             (56)           73            73             73            73            153
Financial Rate of Return: >50%
Based on data provided by INDEFUND: the analysis was carried out in constant 1994/95 prices.
21 Capital recovery factor of 44% applied.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 5. Mamalema Cattle Feedlot - Cash Flow Projections-
Without  ..           . ,With Project .
Project
Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6
1.  Cash infow                                                    ............................................... (MK000).....................(M
- Revenues                                        560           915          960          960          960           960          960
- INDEFUND loan                                                 191           -            -             -            -            -
- Borrower's contribution                                       l1I           -            -             -            -            -
Total Inflow                                      560         1,217          960          960          960           960          960
11. Cash Outflow
- livestment costs                                              302           -            -             -            -            -
- Operating costs                                 463           736          750          728           707          707          707
Total Outflow                                     463         1,038          750          728          707           707          707
111. Cash Balance before Debt Service                  97           179          210          232           253          253          253
IV. Debt Service"                                       -           100          100       Iioo             100          100
V.  Cash Balance after Debt Service                    97            79          110           132          153          153          253
VI. Incremental Cash Balance                                        (18)          13           35            56           56           156
Financial rate of return: >50%
Based on data provided bx INDEFUJNI): the analysis was carried out in constant 1994/95 prices.
2/ Capital rccoxvery tactor of 44% applied.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 6. Economic Impact of Select Subprojects assisted by INDEBANK                                                   Page 1.
Project        Loan         Direct         Direct
Sr.           Name of Project                       Purpose                    Cost        Amount         Annual        Foreign               Other Direct Benefits
No.                                                                                                       Employment    Exchange
........  (MK million)      (man-years)    (ME million)
1.      Valley Chicks                    Poultry (hatchery)                     0.43          0.27            15            0.6       Supported several broiler units.
2.      Cotton Ginneries                 Rehabilitation and upgrading of        0.94           0.47          161             -        Value addition to local cotton farmers.
ginnery
3.      Naming'omba                      Tea decaffienating                     3.78           1.80          169-'          4.0
4.      National Oil Industry            Vegetable oil processing               2.65           1.27           38             -        Import substitution.
5.      Walker Transport                 Transport vehicles                      1.01          0.61            5             -        Connected rural production centers to
urban markets.
6.      Satemwa Tea Estate               Diversification to coffee               1.45          0.70           261           0.5
7.      Chikunje Tobacco Estate          - do -                                  1.28          0.04          103            0.41
8       Nchima Tea Estate                - do -                                 10.39          1.30          650            5.3
9.      Chipimpha Estate                 Intensification of flu-cured           0.74           0.45           33            0.6
tobacco production
10.     Lingadzi Farms                   Export-oriented flori-culture          3.26           1.40         1,032         192.0       100% export-oriented rose cultivation on 8
ha of land yielding 24 million roses per
annum. Of the 1,000 labour employed,
900 are unskilled. The unit is planning to
double the production
Sub Total                                                              25.93          8.31         2,232          203.4



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 6. Economic Impact of Select Subprojects assisted by INDEBANK                                               Page 2.
Project   I   Loan         Direct        Direct
Sr.           Name of Project                      Purpose                  Cost        Amount        Annual        Foreign               Other Direct Benefits
No.                                                                                                   Employment    Exchange
...  (MK million)i.       (man-yearn)    (MK million)
II.     WTWlC Freight                   Coffee processing                     1.64         0.80          N.A.         N.A.
12.     J & M Distributors              Meat processing                      0.82          0.55          N.A.         N.A.
13      Naming'omba Tca Estate          Tea decaffeination                   0.96          0.58          N.A.         N.A.
(Supplementary)
14.     Sturdy Hawk Agencies            Fish farming                         0.57          0.34          N.A.         N.A.
15.     National Seed Company           Seed processing                      4.36          1.50          N.A.         N.A.
(Lilongwe)
16.     National Seed Company           Oil processing                       19.50           -           N.A.         N.A.       Project not implemented.
(Blantyre)
17.     J & M Distributors              Meat processing                       1 20         0.65          N.A.         N.A.
(Supplementary)
18.     Vwaza Estates                   Development of flu-cured tobacco      1.04           -           N.A.         N.A.       Project withdrawn.
Sub-total                                                           30.09          4.41
Grand Total                                                          56.02        12.72
"Mission estimates.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 7: Key Disbursement and Employment Indicators
Small Loans          Medium Loans            Large Loans                Direct and Actual Employment (Rural)
Year         No.      Amount        No.      Amount        No.      Amount         Small       Medium        Large         Total
(MK'000)              (MK'000)               (MK'000)        Loans        Loans         Loans
1992-93        2          50          2         233          2         400            2            4            10           16
1993-94        25         744         18        1,588        8         1,287         25            36           40           101
1994-95        71        1,834        22        1,874        18        1,935         71           44            90           205
1995-96        133       4.192        81        6,868        77       14,043         133          162          385          680a'
1,002
Note:    Small loans (MKI,000-MK50,000) expected to provide direct full year employment for one person/p.a.
Medium loans (MK51,000-l 10,000) expected to provide direct full year employment for two person/p.a.
Large loans (MK I I 1,000-MK250,000) expected to provide direct full year employment for three person/p.a.
3'   Rearing for three years (loan fund).



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 8: Key Indicators for Project Performance
Project Component                                     Indicator                                                        Status
Estate Development and Agro-Industries           I. Credit disbursement and loan recovery.        I . Over 90% of credit disbursed to larger estates. Loan recovery rates of CBs not
(Credit Component)                                                                                   satisfactory.
2. Negligible credit disbursed to small estates only (INDEFUND).
Pilot Scheme for Rural Merchants                 I. Number of rural traders and merchants         1. Excellent. Loan issued expanded from 6 (1992/93) to 342 (1995/96). The
(Credit Component)                                  Obtaining credit.                                cumulative    figure up to 1996/97 is 850 (Appendix C-I, Table 6).
2. Private Trader Promotions.                   2. Private traders now allowed to trade in commodities/inputs.
Institutional Development Component              I. Private trader development.                   I. Over I,100 traders have attended skill courses (over 1,000 registered traders).
(Appendix C-3, Table 9).
2. Project monitoring and management capacity
development.                                 2. Export Quality Control scheme in place.
o,3 3. Three vacancies remain to be filled in MPS. 
C)
Market Infrastructure Component                  Number of rural produce markets that are         12 out of 16 markets have been constructed or rehabilitated. MOLG needs to
rehabilitated.                                   develop O&M cost recovery arrangements.
Strengthening the Drought Recovery Efforts       Second credit disbursement to smallholders.      Credit disbursed but proper discipline not shown resulting in heavy willful defaults
in loan repayment.
Other Factors                                      Indicator                                                        Status
Employment                                      Numbers employed.                                 Significant. More than 2,200 man-years created by some INDEBANK schemes.
(Appendix C-3, Table 6).
Production and Diversification                   Volume and composition of production,            Significant production increases.
Export Orientation                               Export-oriented production and marketing         Substantial increase. Restrictions on crop trading lifted except for export of maize.
activities.



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 8. Private Traders Training Program
Number of Private Traders trained in General Produce Marketing and Financial Management and Book-keeping since 1989
Name of Add.                   1989/90           1990/91           1991/92           1992/93            Total
Karonga                           -                48                21                 -                69
Mzuzu                                              98                32                                  130
Kasungu                                            58                32                                  90
Salima                            -                35                 -                 -                35
Lilongwe                         140               26                49                21                236
Blantyre                                           280               24                 10               314
Ngabu                                              91                24                 -                115
Liwonde                   .                        117                -                23                140
GRAND TOTAL                      140               753               182               54               1.129
Source: MOALD.
Table 9. Private Pilot Trader Scheme (Medium-scale) Cash Flow (1995/96)
(MK)
A. Revenues from Sales                                                              16,200
- Maize (5,400 kg at MK3.0/kg)                                                   135,000
- Beans (18,000 kg at MK7.5/kg)                                                   9.300
- Pigeon peas (1.980 kg at MK4.7/kg)                                            160,500
Total
B. Operating Costs
- Purchases
- Maize (at MK 2.25/kg)                                                    12,150
Beans (at MK3.00/kg)                                                      54,000
- Pigeon peas (at MK2.5/kg)                                                4,950
Sub-total                                                                  71,100
Transport costs:- 282 bags at MKI0/bag                                          2,820
- Losses (2.5%)                                                                  4,000
- Labor: 150 days at MK1 5/day                                                   2,250
- Miscellaneous                                                                   1,000
Sub-total                                                                        10,070
- Financial charges: short-term credit - MK70,000 at 46%                         32,200
Total Costs                                                                     113,370
C. Surplus (A-B)                                                                    47,130
Maize: 60 bags; beans: 200 bags; pigeon peas: 22 bags. Bags of90 kg/each. Transport
cost at MKI0/bag; average trip of about O00 kg.
11



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 11: Loans Issued by PFIs for Estate Development
Amount
Name of PFI                      No.                (MK million)             % Share
CBM                            13                    1.6                     9.9
NBM                           55                     7.0                    43.5
INDEBANK                          11                    6.3                    39.1
INDEFUND                          7                     1.2                     7.5
Total                         86                     16.1                   100.0
Table 12: Loans Issued by PFIs for Small and Larger Estates
Amount
Nature of Estate                                 No.                      (MK Million)         % Share
Projected           Actual
Small Estates                           285                 7                  1.2                7.5
Larger Estates                          21                  79                14.9               92.5
Total                                   306                 86                16.1               100.0
Table 13: Lending Rates for PFIs and RBM
June 1992          July 1993          March 1995
Start Up           Mid-Way           Project End
PFI Average Lending Rate (% p.a.)                      16                 26                 44
RBM Lending Rate (% p.a.)                              I I                11                  29
Spread                                                 5                  15                  15
12



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 14: Loans Issued by PFIs for Agro-Processing Activities
(PFI-Wise)
Name of PFI                             No.                   Amount                % Share
(MK million)
NBM                                      1                       1.2                  15.6
CBM                                                                                    0
INDEBANK                                 7                       6.4                  83.1
INDEFUND                                 I                       0.1                   1.3
Total                                    9                       7.7                  100.0
Table 15: Loans Issued by PFIs for Agro-Processing Activities
(Purpose-Wise)
Activity                                      Projected           Actual            Amount
(MK million)
Large scale maize and wheat processing            2                                                l
Large scale rice mills                            2
Small scale maize and rice processing            10                  -
Oil processing                                    2                 2                  1.3
Cotton ginning                                    I                  l                 0.5
Others (tea/coff e/seed,etc.)                     -                 6                  5.9
Total                                            17        |        9                  7.7
13



MALAWI: Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Information
Table 16: SEDOM's Loan Disbursements
Year            Loans Disbursed         Annual Growth Rate                    Resources
Number        Amount
(MK million)
1992-93          6            0.68                               For trading in seasonal crops costs.
1993-94          51           3.59                428
1994-95         III           7.24                102
1995-960'        342          31.03               329
T     Including 154 loans for trading in inputs equivalent to MKI4.59 million.
b/    Season incomplete.
Table 17: Quality Certificates Tests done by MBS
Year            No. of Samples Tested            of which, No. of              No. of Export
Export Samples              Certificates Issued
1992                  4,586                         152                           51
1993                  2,494                          60                           56
1994                  2,551                         200                           27
Table 18: Viability of the Select Local Markets Covered by the Impact Study of MOLG
Position as at end of 5th Year (grace period)*'
Name of the Market    Anticipated Revenues        Operating Costs      Debt Servicing         Net Revenues
Chipoka                   60.00                  18.60                55.04                -13.64
Nsanje                   96.00                   13.34                38.49                44.17
Chilumba                  15.83                   10.92                47.63                -42.72
Ntchisi                  84.88                   25.60                37.20                22.08
Namweva                   63.70                   25.60                48.41                -10.31
Lunzu                   111.47                  68.54                17.63                 25.30
-  The study has assumed uniform annual slabs for revenues and operating costs for the entire project period at
full/optimal rate. Debt servicing is reckoned at 24% p.a. for the first three markets and 10% p.a. for the rest,
with 50% of the loan as grant.
14



Appendix D
MAP






IERD 21033
732'3
To Dal Es Slaa                                                         MALAWI
KARONGA AD.                         O kenge D    p           AGRICULTURAL MARKETING
,O chis                                          aren onge         AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
W.-AH-k;. .1fti           -_ -,y    -,--hwawa                                PROJECT
tar the cotrat.ntmca Of the                  _             1  
Aa., an -IdtXha4y to, th
-h      t utf   '   aa,-                            Chilumb
an he Ont-on- Fflanc
* --~A-,^bjn,tbn,.^hmr.,bn.  VC9M arketing
a0d ann tOtM tJvKSbvoundari sfj70.,0 -
art at ftheWOd ,k an-d th                      OLi      t      ZInfrastructure   Sites
ht-M-bna Fbfn C-rtor.bo'                         L nmgstoni 
anY .A,dd,-t onth. 4g.1 .tdta '
o- any t -rrItOryor ny            R                          1   0               Project Sites
*nd toran,tant or aKaatow OfaU
Oollndariaa  K stmw                                    Agricultural Development
0  Rum,                    }                    S Division Boundaries
X, NW     TfPN -Sh                         -     Principal Roads
MZUZU AD D. D.                              e L,ake                         Rivers
C@; .    - *f  -    kata                      0   Towns
-ZO ,l NK tahnkhsira     *    District Capitals
Mzimba   -           inthec                 *    National Capital
12                              NtA  A  AhUuu                                     District Boundaries       120
Z A A B I ALikom                                                              Reglon Boundaries
-  _;>7  AInternational Boundaries
A         aw/   i  KILOMETERS 0  20  40  60  S0  100
Chului        Q     
o t <    /  St Xft_ \             /           MILES 0     20    40     60
a   H)          d J; sU~~~~Nkhotakot
KASUNGUAK.un d'SADLLIMA A.UD. D.
,1'       ,Ntchi)                          SA/M     ADD.
To Lusaka              N Jena
TO Lf2SAkA 1.. ?eSU gM hi ji  /' >  +\4 2 S        m~~~~D 
140                 *  LONGWE,m          P0;  Monkey\  LIWONDE A.D.D.
'  -LikuniO  W,  ,                        )4
chim\        '         >o Bdza  era       To Nacala
Ing~~~eA
xJ- ~ ~~ ~~~~ Liudfl,       , tknoch    \J  d
LILONGWE A.D.D.                     *NtJqeu]a  S    THERIM  I CI AI
MOZAMBIQUE E                                        Baiwonde N
BLANTYRE A.DD..  c7MB   d
-  r       4  f,  qSMayagimba,
AWAA AIAI .. KENY   OMAH                     ., JC)a    MpnaL aa
-   a~~~~~~
ZAIRE   Y              .                                          stja   - -    "ULAN
-  TANZANA       _ __  o                 \Ciwawaw   .                 Mhando                      o
Makande
ANOOIA             L-'tCO"0R0 I  cIOROSHK                                           Mlanii i   oBet
|sabil\    ,
MOZAL6IO~E   I )      f      ---             r             r' XChiramo
;i& <NGABU A.D.D
[IHOTS      WAA         $ MAOAaA3CAR                                            Nsanie
I..      SOUTH      )            g            340>\  \  I ,                                   38
AFRICA                         _____11_______.___________,_____._____J__
.1,, y 1668F









IMAGING
Report No.:         16461
Type:     ICR



