Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R,pVort No. 7401-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI
October 31, 1988
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted distdbution and may be used by redpients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha (MK)
US$   1.00                             MK  2.50
MK    1.00                             US$ 0.40
SDR   1.00                             MK  3.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =            0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)   =             0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              2            2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)          =            2,204 lb
FINANCALK YEAR
Government of Malawi:     April 1 - March 31
INDEBANK:     January 1- December 31
National Bank of Malawi:      January 1- December 31
Commercial Bank of Malawi:      July 1 - June 30
SEDOM:     April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADD            Agricultural Development Divisions
ADMARC         Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AfDB           African Development Bank
CDC            Commonwealth Development Corporation
CBM            Commercial Bank of Malawi
DEG            Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (German Finance
Company for Investments in Developing Countries)
DEMATT         Development of Malawi Traders Trust
EAC            Estates and Agro-industries Committee
EEC            European Economic Community
EP&D           Department of Economic Planning and Development
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FMO            Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappi Vor-Outwickeling
Sladen (Netherlands Finance Company for Developing
Countries)
FRG            Federal Republic of Germany
KFW            Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau
GOM            Government of Malawi
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC            International Finance Corporation
INDEBANK       Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
INDEFUND       Investment and Development Fund
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LFB            Local Fund Board
MBS            Malawi Bureau of Standards
MC             Marketing Committee
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLG           Ministry of Local Government
MSU            Marketing Support Unit
MTIT           Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
NBM            National Bank of Malawi
NRDP           National Rural Development Program
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
OPC            Office of the President and Cabinet
RBM            The Reserve Bank of Malawi
SACA           Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SEDOM          Small Enterprise Development Organization
TRA            Tobacco Research Authority
TRF            Tea Research Foundation
UK             United Ri ngdom
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary ..........................     ... .i-iii
I.  BACKGROUND ... ........................................                1
A.  Project Background ............. . . ...                           1
B.  Salient Economic Features              .1
C.  The Agricultural Sector  ..............................           3
The Smallholder Subsector .3
The Estate Subsector........                   .                4
Main Constraints........... . ....                              4
D.  Government Objectives for Agriculture                             4
E.  Bank and Other Donor's Strategy and Assistance                    5
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND ......                    ......7
A.  Agricultural Marketing      ....*.....                             7
The Marketing System for Smallholder Produce                    7
Processing.............                                         8
The Private Trade.............                                  8
The Marketing Liberalization Program.                           8
Constraints to Private Sector Participation                     9
B.  The Estate Subsector     .      ............ .                   11
Constraints to Estate Development                              11
C. The Financial System.                                             13
The Reserve Bank of Malawi.                                    13
The Commercial Banks ..............................            14
Development Finance Institutions       ..15
III.  THE PROJECT         ..................                     .         17
A.  Project Objectives and Design .....     ...................      17
Project Objectives ....... ..........................          17
Project Design        .....................................    17
B.  Project Summary and Description ......................           17
C.  Detailed Features ..        .    ................................  18
Credit Component .......     ............................      18
Institutional Development Component ...........     I ....     20
Market Infrastructure Component ..................  ..         23
D.  Project Costs ........      ................................     23
E. Financing .........      ...................................      25
F.  Procurement ........     ..................................      26
G. Disbursement          .........................................   28
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......      .............................      29
A.  Organization and Management ............. .............          29
Project Coordination ............      ...................     29
Marketing Policy and Support Services ..............           30



- 2 -
Training    ............................................           31
Export Quality Control .31
Regulation of the Private Trade .32
Market Infrastructure Development .33
Estate Development, Agro-industries and Rural Traders              33
Credit Terms and Conditions    ..33
B. Aceounts and Audit    ..39
Accounts and Audits.                                               39
C. Monitoring and Evaluation    ..39
D. Environmental Safeguards             ..40
E. Role of Woomen.                                                        40
F. Status of Project Implementation    .               .40
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .41
A. Project Benefits    ..41
B. Project Risks.                                                         42
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                . . .43
Annex 1 Marketing and Pricing Section Organizational Charts .47
Annex 2 Detailed Cost Tables and Summary Tables .49
Annex 3 Indicative Project Lending Program    .               .55
Appendix 1 - Indicative Program of Subprojects                          57
Appendix 2 - Summary of Lending Activities Under the
Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2646-MI) .59
Appendix 3 - Estate Sector Lending Models .60
Appendix 4 - Marketing Models for Pilot Credit to Rural Traders  74
Appendix 5 - Proposal for Negotiable Warehouse Certificates             77
Annex 4 Draft Lending Terms for Agricultural
Marketing and Estate Development   .              .80
Annex 5  Schedule A - Estate Development Subproject
Feasibility Study .83
Schedule B - Agroprocessing Subproject
Feasibility Study .85
Schedule C - Criteria for Appraisal of Subprojects                    86
Schedule D - Subproject Reporting Forms .90
Annex 6  Draft Terms of Reference - Marketing
Services Advisor .93
Annex 7  Performance Indicators for Participating Banks .94
Annex 8  Marketing Policy, Information and
Monitoring and Evaluation    ..97
Annex 9 Estate Policy Development .103
MAP:  IBRD NO. 21033 ............................................                105



MAIAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPME-?
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers            The Republic of Malawi
Executing
Agencies:            Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Local Government,
Malawi Bureau of Standards, Investment and Development bank
of I4alawi (INDEBANK), National Bank of Malawi (NBM),
Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM), Smill Enterprise
Development Agency of Malawi (SEDOM).
Amount:              SDR 14.2 million (US$18.3 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Proiect
Description:         The proposed project is designed to improve the marketing of
smallholder crops by supporting the Government's efforts to
develop a multi-channel marketing system.   The project aims
to strengthen Government market support, policy analysis and
regulatory functions and to develop mechanisms for financing
private marketing and processing of smallholder crops.
Another aim of the project is to improve resource
utilization and productivity in the estate sub-sector by
providing medium-term credit for sub-projects aimed at
intensifying and diversifying production, particularly for
smaller estates that have limited access to commercial
financing. The Project would include funds for: (a) credit
to be channeled thrnugh the commercial banks, INDEBANK, and
the Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
(SEDOM) in support of estate development and agricultural
marketing subprojects, including a pilot credit for rural
assemblers; (b) support to the Government, including
technical assistance, training, and equipment to improve its
market information, quality control and regulatory systems;
and (c) improvement of rural marketing infrastructure.
Benefits and
Risks:               A broad spectrum of smallholder and estate farmers
throughout the country would benefit from the improved
marketing and processing services and the bett r farm
practices made possible through the use of the proposed
credit lines. Improved marketing and processing services
would yield benefits from better quality products and lower
marketing margins which would be passed on to both producers
and consumers.   Better cultivation practices, improved
grading and handling facilities, and expanded land
utilization financed under the proposed credit line for
estates would result in higher incomes for Malawian estate



- ii -
owners through increased yields and higher quality output.
Moreover the project would create a viable a-ld sustainable
institutional framework for Government market support and
regulatory services.
The potential risks include the ability of Government to
implement its market reform program effectively. So far the
Government has demonstrated firm resolve in implementing its
market liberalization program but it is concerned about the
impact of the program, particularly on vulnerable groups.
The institutional component addresses this concern by
improving Government's capacity to monitor market
developments, and implement appropriate measures. For the
estates, a potential uncertainty is future price levels for
estate exports. Bank forecasts show prices for Malawi's
export crops as holding steady in the medium term. Also the
subprojects financed by the credit are expected to make the
estates more productive and better able to withstand price
declines.
Estimated Cost
Local       Foreign          Total
----_______(US$ 000)-
Technical Assistance                                 -           668.0        668.0
Civil Works                                        235.7         353.5        589.2
Vehicles and Equipment                               -           174.4        174.4
Office Supplies                                      6.2          24.6         30.8
Oversees Training                                    -           116.0        116.0
Local Training                                     185.6            0         185.6
Information, Monitoring, and Evaluation           120.0          120.0        240.0
Studies                                            35.9          554.1        590.0
Estate Development                              7,360.0       11,040.0    18,400.0
Agro-industries                                 1,617.0        3,003.0      4,620.0
Pilot Credit for Rural Traders                  1,400.0          600.0      2,000.0
Recurrent costs                                   242.4          174.0        416.4
Total Baseline                11,202.8       16,827.6    28,030.4
Physical Contingencies                             35.4           53.0         88.4
Price Continqencies                                80.9          109.7        190.6
Total Project Costs           11,319.1       16,990.3    28,309.4



- iii -
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign         Total       Z
------------- US $ million ----------------
IDA                               1.3           17.0          18.3     64
Participating Banks               3.2            -             3.2      12
Sub-Borrower                      6.3            -             6.3      22
Government                        0.5            -             0.5       2
Total                     11.3           17.0          28.3    100
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
---------------     US$ million------------------------------
Annual                3.3      2.7     2.8       2.5      2.4     2.3      2.3
Cumulative            3.3      6.0     8.8      11.3    13.7    16.0    18.3
Map                   IBRD No. 21033



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01          The Project, for which an IDA credit of US$18.3 million is
proposed, aims at improving the marketing system for smallholder crops in
support of the market liberalization program initiated under the
Government's structural adjustment program. It is also designed to assist
Government efforts to increase estate productivity and exports. These
goals would be achieved through the development of a multi-channel
marketing system for agricultural produce and by improving the access of
small estates to medium-term credit. The marketing element of the proposed
Project was identified during negotiations of the IDA-financed supplement
to SAL III. The support for estate development was included during Project
preparation based on identification work undertaken by FAO/CP and the rapid
commitment of credit funds for estate agriculture under the US$4.5 million
pilot component of the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project (Ln.
2646-MAI), Following a request from the Goveznment for IDA assistance, a
mission visited Malawi in November 1986 to initiate preparation. A follow-
up mission during January/February 1988 finalized the preparation. The
appraisal took place in May 1988.
B. Salient Economic Features
1.02          Malawi is characterized by a limited resource base, poorly
developed social and physical infrastructure and low per capita incomes.
Despite these limitations, the country achieved impressive economic growth
during the fifteen years following independence in 1964. GDP more than
doubled during this period, resulting in sustained real per capita growth
of 3.OZ per year. This growth was largely fueled by a steady expansion of
agriculture. However, beginning in the mid-1970's, Malawi's economic
performance weakened as a result of external shocks, delayed policy
responses and intensification of structural imbalances. On the external
front, falling world prices for exports, soaring oil prices, and the
gradual disruption of transport routes through Mozambique led to a 28%
decline in the terms of trade between 1978 and 1981. On the domestic
front, the Government resorted to deficit spending to maintain aggregate
demand. As a result the fiscal deficit, financed to a large extent by
external borrowing on commercial terms, rose to 15? of GDP in 1981/82.
Several underlying weaknesses in the economy were revealed by the
deteriorating economic situation, includ'ng the lack of export
diversification, slow growth in smallholder agriculture, and import
dependence in the industrial and energy sectors. Problems also emerged
with inadequate agricultural price incentives, reliance on industrial price
controls, weaknesses in key parastatals and poor budgetary planning and
implementation. As a result of these domestic and external factors, GDP
did not grow at all in 1980 and contracted by 5.22 in 1981.



1.03          In 1981 the Government introduced a structural adjustment
program to restore macro-economic stability and economic growth. This
program has been supported by three SALs and successive stand-by operations
and an e2ctended facility from the IMF. The adjustment package includes:
(a) price refotm, including agricultural price adjustments to bring
domestic producer prices in line with international prices, decontrol cf
most industrial prices, and the gradual reduction in fertilizer subsidies;
(b) improved public sector resource management; (c) external sector
reforms, including exchange rate management and development of export
promotion programs; and (d) parastatal reforms including restructuring of
ADMARC.
1.04          The adjustment package yielded immediate results.  Good
progress was made in reducing financial imbalances and restoring economic
growth with the economy growing at an annual rate of 4.1Z between 1982 and
1985. But the recovery was short lived as Malawi's strong macro-economic
performance was reversed in 1986 by new external events that derailed the
Government's adjustment efforts. Renewed fiscal imbalances resulted from
increased transport costs, large military expenditures associated with
regional political tensions, and the costs incurred in providing assistance
to displaced persons from Mozambique. In addition, continued declines in
agricultural terms of trade, and problems in 1986-87 with administered
resource allocations and expansionary fiscal programs undermined the
incentive structure and efficiency in the productive sector. Finally, the
growing population and the influx of displaced persons from Mozambique have
strained social services and created severe land pressures that adversely
affected agricultural productivity and per capita food consumption.   All
of these factors have weakened Malawi's economy and contributed to a
decline in real output of 0.2Z in 1987. The government has respon,ud to
the growing difficulties with further adjustment measures designed to curb
public sector consumption and restore domestic and external balances.
However, the resumption of sustained economic growth requires that Malawi
not only continue these adjustment efforts but also implement a new
development strategy that addresses the structural and policy constraints
that have dimmed Malawi's growth prospects.
1.05          In recognition of the continuing macro-economic imbalances
and stagnating growth, the Government recently reviewed its adjustment
program and prepared a new medium-term development strategy. This program
is outlined in the Government's "Statement of Development Policies",
1987-96 (DEVPOL), a comprehensive strategy statement for each sector of the
economy for the next decade, and the "Policy Framework Paper,
1988/89-1990/91" (PFP), a review of the three-year development program
prepared jointly with the World Bank and the IMF. The major economic and
social objectives of Malawi's medium-term development program are: (i)
reduction of poverty, ignorance and disease through sustained growth, (ii)
improvement in income distribution, and (iii) stabilization in the growth
of the economy.
1.06          To achieve the growth objective, the Government has
identified a series of policy reforms and new investments designed to
reduce structural constraints in key productive sectors. Growth is
expected primarily from increased productivity in smallholder and estate
agriculture, higher capacity utilization and new investment in industry,
and reduction in external transport costs. While Government services will



- 3 -
continue to play an important role in economic development, Malawi's growth
strategy emphasizes private sector control of economic production and
reduction in the scope of Government regulatic-   To achieve the equity
objective and provide the basis for sustained long-term growth, the
Go;ernment has identified measures to strengthen development of human
resources and expand rural social infrastructure. These include expansion
of primary school enrollment, promotion of small-scale enterprises and
increased expenditures on social services, particularly primary health
care, rural water supplies and low-cost housing. Finally, to achieve the
stability objective, the Government hae developed a macro-economic
stabilization program designed to restore domestic and external balance.
Reduced fiscal deficits, strict monetary and credit policies and
continuation of active exchange rate management will play a key role in
redressing the external shocks that slowed growth in the 1980s.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.07          Malawi is heavily dependent on agriculture, which supports
about 85% of the population (7.6 million people) on 94,300 sq. km and in
1986 contributed 37X of the GDP and 91% of all exports. Major agricultural
exports include tobacco (54% of total exports), tea (162) and sugar (9%).
Major food crops include maize, pulses, cassava and groundnuts.
Agriculture in Malawi is characterized by two distinct subsectors that are
defined by the tenure system. Smallholders cultivate traditional tenured
or customary land while estate cultivation takes place on freehold or
leasehold lands. Farmers in each subsector differ in the types of crops
they grow and in their access to markets, credit, and extension services.
The Smallholder Subsector
1.08          About 1.3 million smallholder families cultivate customary
lands in Malawi and produce about 852 of the country's food supply. The
majority of these smallholders are near-subsistence cultivators with
limited access to land and very low income levels. The average farm size
is about 1.1 ha with about 552 of the holdings in the country less than one
hectare. The average income of a smallholder farm family in 1984/85 was
estimated at less than MK300 (US$120), of which about 80Z was from crops
and livestock and 20X from off-farm employment. For many smallholders
chronic food insecurity is a pervasive and growing problem. Due to small
farm size, and the lack of access to adequate plant nutrients, the
productivity of many smallholder homes is inadequate to meet basic
household food needs. Consequently, most smallholders are net buyers of
food, though off-farm incomes are often insufficient to purchase adequate
calories. The result is widespread rural malnutrition and high child
mortality rates.
1.09          Maize is the dominant smallholder crop and is cultivated on
three-quarters of the cropped land, mostly for home consumption. Other
smallholder food crops include cassava, pulses and groundnuts which are
grown both for home consumption and the market. In addition to food crops,
the larger smallholders often market some tobacco or cotton. Smallholder
production is derived almost entirely from family labor, and despite small
farm size, seasonal labor shortages often arise. Technology is
rudimentary and land management is generally poor. Erosion and declining
soil fertility are becoming serious problems in densely populated areas.



- 4-
The Estate Subsector
1.10          Estate agriculture is defined to include farming on freehold
and leasehold land. Since the early 1900s when European settlers started
to grow tea, tobacco, cotton and coffee, the orientation has always been on
the production of crops for vxport. It is the only legal producer of flue-
cured and burley tobacco, the only commercial producer of sugarcane, the
major producer of tea and a minor producer of cereals and seed cotton. It
generates about 40Z of the total wage employment in the economy and
accounts for about 8O0 of the country's foreign exchange earnings through
exports of tobacco, sugar, tea, coffee and macademia. With few exceptions,
estates are owned by private individuals or by companies. There are now
about 4,000 estates with total land holdings estimated at about 600,0000
ha. The number of estates increased rapidly during the 1970's and early
1980's, spurred largely by the growth in burley tobacco production. Since
1980 the total area devoted to burley production has doubled.
1.11          Major estate crops include tobacco, sugar, tea, and coffee.
Traditionally individual estates grow only one export crop.
Diversification into non-traditional crops such as macademia has started
only recently. Of the total estate area harvested about half is still
under flue-cured and burley tobacco. Tea and sugarcane cover over a third
with the balance made up mostly of coffee, nuts, and cotton.
Main Constraints
1.12          A number of constraints prevail in both the smallholder and
estate subsectors which must be overcome before agriculture can reach its
full potential. The most pressing constraint for smallholder agriculture
is growing land pressure. Rapid population growth rates (in excess of 3.52
per year) mean that the current average holding size of about three
quarters of a hectare will decline to less than one-half hectare by the
year 2000. As a consequence, traditional patterns of shifting cultivation
have given way to continuous mono-cropping of maize that has led, in the
absence of fertilizers, to depleted soil fertility and declining yields.
Given such land constraints, most future increases in the production of
food and export crops must come from more intensive and productive use of
land. However, a variety of related factors have caused smallholder
productivity to remain stagnant for a number of years despite considerable
Government investment. These factors include: (a) inappropriate
smallholder technology, especially for maize; (b) weaknesses in extension
and research services; (c) uneven access to production credit; (d)
Government pricing and subsidy policy; and (e) growing marketing problems
for smallholder crops. Constraints in the estate subsector include poor
manage)ient and a lack of access to credit and extension services. These
problems are particularly severe for the smaller estates recently
established under Malawian ownership and management.
D. Government Objectives for ARriculture
1.13          The resumption of growth in agriculture is central to the
Government's medium-term development plan. The main objectives for
agriculture are to increase both domestic and export production, ensure
food security, improve the distribution of rural incomes, and reverse the
deterioration of the natural resource base. For smallholders, the aim is
to raise agricultural productivity both for farmers with small plots to
ensure that they are self-sufficient in food production and for larger
farmers to enable them to diversify into cash crops. Despite years of
effort, adoption rates of existing high yielding maize varieties have been



- 5 -
low. As part of the Government's agricultural strategy, the National
agricultural Research System is being reorganized under the Agricultural
Research project (Cr. 1549-MAI) so that research priorities can be
formulated and viable technological packages developed for the smallholder
subsector. At the same time the Government is strengthening the extension
service and improving Ministry of Agriculture's policy analysis
capabilities through the Agricultural Extension and Planning Support
project (Cr. 1626-MAI). It is also expanding the scope of the smallholder
credit system through the recently approved Smallholder Credit project (Cr.
1851-MAI). For the estate sector, the Government aims to restore growth in
export crop production and to diversify the crop mix in an effort to lessen
Malawi's dependence on tobacco exports. To help accomplish these
objectives, the Government is seeking to improve the access of estate
owners to medium-term investment funds and to establish an estate extension
and management training service, which is expected to begin operations in
1989. To ensure equitable and efficient allocation of land between estates
and smallholders, the Government is undertaking a review of the land tenure
system and will continue to freeze estate expansion in densely populated
areas.
1.14          The Government will continue to use pricing policy to
maintain adequate producer incentives for smallholders.  Producer output
and input prices will be reviewed annually in light of production and
marketing costs, border prices, the level of domestic supply, and
Government food security goals. Moreover, after the maize shortages in
1987/88, the Government gives high priority to developing a comprehensive
food security program. A food security monitoring and reporting unit that
was set up in 1987 is expected to be fully operational in 1988 and a study
will soon be undertaken to review the optimal size and operation of the
strategic grain reserve. The Government also intends to rebuild the
reserve in 1989-90 as domestic production and external financing permit.
In addition, the Government is committed to improving food security at the
household level and is reviewing options to raise nutrition levels,
including off-farm employment opportunities, special food and fertilizer
for work programs for food deficit farmers, expansion of smallholder credit
and extension programs to encompass a much larger proportion of the
smallholder population, and development of appropriate high-yielding crop
packages. It is also examining the feasibility of relaxing existing
restrictions on smallholder production of burley tobacco. In view of the
growing population of displaced persons from Mozambique, the Government
will continue to mobilize emergency food relief from the donor community
and private relief agencies.
1.15          Reform of agricultural marketing remains an important element
in Mala'wi's agricultural strategy. The Government will continue efforts to
improve smallholder agricultural marketing and restructure ADMARC. After
encouraging private trading in smallholder marketing in 1987, the
Government will revipw the appropriate role of ADMARC in stabilizing market
prices and in providing marketing services in areas not covered by private
traders. Government also intends to develop an effective multi-channel
marketing system by strengthening marketing services and infrastructure in
support of the private trade and to developing effective market
intelligence, regulatory and quality control functions.
E. Bank and other Donor's Strategy and Assistance
1.16          Malawi's Agriculture is heavily supported by other donors
besides the Bank. The USAID, EEC, FRG, ODA, AfDB, and IFAD provide



- 6 -
significant support to NRDP and national level institutions and services.
In addition the UK, USAID, FRG, the Netherlands and Japan provide co-
financing for the Government's Stuctural Adjustment Program. In the past,
the Bank's and other Donor's assistance to agriculture has largely focused
on the smallholder subsector and was channelled mainly through area
development projects under the National Rural Development Program (NRDP).
On balance the record of NRDP has been mixed with satisfactory physical
implementation of investment and delivery of services but with a productive
impact on a relatively small number of farmers. The Bank's and other
Donor's present strategy continues to emphasize smallholder agriculture,
however, the focus has shifted from area development projects to national
projects designed to reach larger number of farmers through:
(a) improving the Government's capacity for agricultural
planning and policy analysis so as to develop and
maintain a policy environment conducive to agricultural
growth;
(b) strengthening the implementation capabilities of the
research, extension and credit delivery cervices of the
MOA through institutional reforms, improved resource
allocations, and human resource development;
(c)  supporting the Government's market reform efforts aimed
at developing a multi-channel marketing system and
improving ADMARC's operations; and
(d) assisting in the development of special initiatives
designed to give food deficit households access to farm
inputs, improved maize packages, credit and extension
services, and off-farm employment.
The Bank is also supporting estate development in order to restore
productivity and improve resource utilization in that subsector. The
present project which concentrates on marketing and estate development
forms part of the above strategy.
1.17          Since 1977, the Bank and IDA have undertaken 12 operations
totalling US$173.3 million for agricultural development in Malawi. A total
of US$121.2 million has been provided exclusively to support smallholder
development, mostly through area development projects. The remaining
US$52.1 million is being utilized to strengthen the planning and policy
formulation capacity of the MOA and improve the extension and research
services. It is also assisting in the development of forestry resources
and institutions. Moreover, US$4.5 million has been made available for
estate development under an industrial and agricultural credit project. In
addition agricultural policy reforms have been a key element of the three
SAL operations with the most recent focus being on agricultural marketing
reform under the supplement to SAL III. Moreover, three IFC operations
totaling US$17.9 million have assisted the development of agro-industries.



- 7 -
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Agricultural Marketing
The Marketing System for Smnallholder Produce
2.01          Until recently most smallholder produce was marketed through
t:ie Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC). This
sL- tutory organization was established in 1971 to replace the Farmers
Marketing Board that had been responsible for smallholder crop marketing
until then. ADMARC was given a wider mandate than its predecessor. While
Its primary objective is to provide an outlet for smallholder crops, it has
also been assigned a broader developmental role. In performing this
function, ADMARC has provided equity or credit assistance to other farming
and industrial enterprises. It has also absorbed the costs of implementing
the Goverrment's developmental objectives through pan-territorial pricing
and maintaining market outlets in remote locations.
2.02          For the two major smallholder cash crops, tobacco and cotton,
ADMARC has a legal monopsony. It buys these crops directly from farmers,
assembles, stores and transports them to the auction floors in the case of
tobacco or to the ginners and mills for cotton. The other main smallholder
export, groundnut is also purchased, assembled and stored mainly by ADHARC.
Considerable local private trade occurs in the main food crops, maize,
rice, cassava and pulses, but ADMARC is an important outlet for these crops
as well. ADMARC is obliged to buy all smallholder produce offered at its
network of buying points which consist of 26 depots, 87 parent markets, 132
permanent markets and 1,090 seasonal markets. Until 1987 the number of
seasonal markets, particularly in remote locations, had risen steadily in
response to Government directives, with over 300 markets added between 1985
and 1987.
2.03          ADMARC was very profitable until 1978 with average profits of
about 28Z of its sales for the period FY74-78. These surpluses were earned
largely on smallholder exports such as tobacco and groundnuts by keeping
their producer prices low relative to world prices. The profits cross-
subsidized ADMARC's extensive system of rural markets, the expansion of its
investment portfolio and consumer subsidies for food crops. Stagnant world
prices for exports, higher transport costs and changes in Government
pricing policy aimed at parity pricing for exports all contributed to a
decline in ADMARC's profitability after 1978.   Continued losses in the
1980s prompted Government action to address ADMARC's problems. These
actions included a program to divest ADMARC's investment portfolio, close
uneconomical markets, and improve management. ADMARC has also taken steps
to reduce staffing levels, streamline its operations, and cut costs.
2.04          The trends in ADMARC's crop purchases since 1981 illustrate
two points. First, its maize purchases rose dramatically during the early
1980s while purchases of tobacco and other crops fell due to relative price
changes. This shift toward maize purchases changed ADMARC's regional
buying and selling patterns as well as the bulkiness or its purchases
thereby raising its storage, handling and transport costs. Consequently,
the total value of its crop purchases also rose sharply in real terms.



- 8 -
Second, the volume of ADMARC's purchases of maize, rice and pulses have
fallen significantly in the last two marketing seasons (1986 and 1987).
While these declines were due in part to lower production, the greater
competition that ADMARC has faced from private traders and relief agencies
purchasing maize for refugees, was also an important factor.
Processing
2.05          Except maize and rice, the processing of smailholder crops is
done mostly by urban-based processors. Even with maize, processing at the
village level occurs only for the local varieties with hybrids and
composites being milled almost entirely by urban processors. The principal
maize processors in the organized sector are GRAMIL (a wholly owned
subsidiary of ADMARC), and KK Millers.  While some rice is hulled in
village mills, the main processor is NOIL in which ADMARC has a 50% share
holding. Tobacco is purchased by ADMARC and then regraded before being
auctioned.   All smallholder cotton is bought by ADMARC and transported to
its subsidiary, Cotton Ginners Ltd., where it is ginned and the lint is
baled and classified for a fee.  The lint is then sold to David Whitehead
and Sons, also owned partly by ADMARC, for milling. NOIL also crushes
cotton seed for ADMARC for a fee and the products, are sold to Lever
Brothers and GRAMIL. ADMARC purchases both confectionery and oil
groundnuts unshelled from farmers and shells and grades these in house.
The confectionery nuts are then exported while the oil nuts are sold to
Lever Brothers for oil extraction. Pulses and coarse grains purchased by
ADMARC are graded and then sold to urban processors or exported directly.
The Private Trade
2.06          It is difficult to estimate the share of smallholders'
marketed surplus that has been assembled and stored by private agents.
However, for the reasons noted in paras 2.12 and 2.13, tht extent of such
private trade in smallholder produce seems to have been limited in the
past. It has also differed from the operations of ADMARC in that it
consisted mainly of small-scale trade within rural areas and on the fringes
of Blantyre and Lilongwe, the main urban centers. Moreover, most trade in
the rural areas has been in the form of direct sales from producers to
ultimate consumers or village-level assemblers. Food crops such as maize,
rice, cassava and pulses are the main ones that enter the private trade.
Apart from ADMARC facilities, most storage capacity in rural areas is
provided by temporary structures on farms and village stores. Private
traders and farmers also utilize the District Council Markets to sell and
purchase agricultural produce.
The Marketing Liberalization Program
2.07          As part of its Structural Adjustment Program, the Government
acted at the beginning of the 1987/88 marketing season to encourage greater
private sector participation in the marketing of smallholder produce. This
market liberalization program aimed at encouraging crop assembly and
transport by private traders and thereby develop a multi-channel marketing
system that involves the private trade as well as ADMARC. The program
covered all smallholder produce except cotton and tobacco for which ADMARC
will continue to be the sole purchaser. It clarified the legality of
private trade, introduced differential prices between ADMARC's seasonal



markets and its depots and reduced consumer subsidies on maize. It also
contained measures, including closure of 190 seasonal markets, to improve
ADMARC's operations and management.
2.08           The private sector hias responded enthusiastically to the
liberalization of smallholder marketing. The program included a
requirement that all traders be licensed by the Government and over three
hundred trading licenses were issued in the first year. Due to the delay
in beginning the licensing process it is likely that many traders were
operating without licenses.
2.09          There appear to be four classes of licensees following the
liberalization. The first group function primarily as assemblers and
consists of store owners, maize millers and iarger farmers located in rural
locations. Such assemblers, in turn, sell their crop purchases to other
licensees, who operate from urban locations. The second class is made up
of rural and urban institutions that purchase food, mainly maize, for the
consumption needs of their employees or tenants. This group includes the
estates, hospitals, military installations and other Government
institutions. The third group of licensees are processors who have begun
to purchase crops from farmers and rural assemblers in addition to buying
from ADMARC. A last group of licensees are the urban merchants who buy
produce from rural assemblers or farmers and sell it to urban retailers and
consumers or to processors such as GRAMIL. Many of the licensees are women
traders.
2.10          In the first year of the liberalization, most licensed
private traders concentrated on the trade of maize, though some private
trade also occurred in rice, pulses, and groundnuts. The maize trade is
entered into by all four classes of traders identified above. Trade in
other crops usually involves only processors such as NOIL for rice and
Lever Brothers for groundnuts as well as urban merchants and transporters
who sell their crop purchases to the processors or directly to urban
consumers. Finally, the operations of most traders are self-financed with
little or no reliance on outside sources of working capital credit. The
only exceptions are the large processors who have access to the formal
financial sector. Rural assemblers and urban merchants relied totally on
savings and surpluses from their other activities to finance their working
capital needs.
2.11          The Smallholder Agricultural Produce Marketing Regulations of
1987 which formalized the private trade included several regulations
governing the activities of private trade. Among the regulations were the
requirements that traders: (i) buy and sell at designated markets; (ii) not
buy at prices below the official minimum price; and (iii) provide monthly
returns on the volume of commodities. These regulations were approved well
after the start of the last marketing season. As a result, the level of
compliance was quite low. In particular, the reporting requirements were
only partially effective due to a lack of understanding of the requirements
and the absence of a credible mechanism to monitor compliance.
Constraints to Private Sector Participation
2.12          From the experience with the first year of the
liberalization, there appear to be three major constraints to the



- 10 -
development of a genuine multi-channel marketing system for smallholder
produce. The first constraint is posed by lack of adequate financing. As
was noted, most private traders who responded to the Government's market
liberalization program, have had to rely on their own financing. Existing
financial intermediaries do not provide credit for many agricultural
marketing functions. The organized financial system has failed to provide
credit to the agricultural marketing system for two main reasons. First,
these institutions lack the administrative capability to process and
supervise the types of loans required to finance agricultural marketing
functions, particularly in the smallholder sector. Since most of their
lending has been to ADMARC, large estates and urban businesses, they lack
the personnel and procedures necessary to identify creditworthy borrowers
and viable projects in smallholder agriculture. Secondly, they have lacked
the incentive to develop the capacity for such lending because of the
relatively easy returns to credit extended to the Government and
parastatals such as ADMARC. Such lending is risk free and involves low
administrative costs unlike loans for marketing activities to traders, most
of whom lack acceptable collateral.
2.13          A second constraint relates to the lack of marketing
infrastructure and institutional support for marketing activities. Most
indigenous Malawians currently lack entrepreneurial experience. The Asians
accounted for most private trading activity until they were prohibited from
trading in the rural areas in the 1970s and ADMARC has dominated the trade
since then making it difficult for small-scale entrepreneurs to begin
trading in smallholder crops. There is also a lack of training in basic
business skills such as storage, handling, export regulations, bookkeeping,
etc. Moreover, information about market opportunities and statistics on
crop production, consumption and trade are unreliable and outdated.
Existing public market facilities such as District Council markets that are
used by the private trade are also inadequate in that they provide little
or no storage space and often are not easily accessible on a year round
basis.
2.14          Another constraint is the Government' ability to provide an
appropriate regulatory environment for private trade activrities. The
Government has concerns about its ability to collect marketing information,
maintain quality and protect vulnerable groups from unfair trade practices.
But such concerns need to be addressed in such away that does not preclude
the private trade from engaging in profitable trading opportunities. Some
of the regulations announced as part of the Government's liberalization
appeared to be overly restrictive while poor enforcement of other
regulations lead to a situation where they had a limited impact.
2.15          In addition, regulations governing the export of smallholder
crops are overly cumbersome and ineffective. A private exporter is
required to get an export license from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and
Tourism and clearance from ADMARC before commodity can be exported.
However, at no time is the crop actually inspected and certified for
quality by either MTIT or ADMARC. Thus, there is a need to both simplify
the licensing procedures and to ensure that some sort of quality control
mechanism is enforced. This is particularly crucial for groundnuts which
are subject to contamination by aflatoxin.



- .3 -
2.16          The proposed Project is designed to address the constraints
to private marketing due to lack of financing, poor infrastructure, and
weak institutional support. It would help develop appropriate credit
mechanisms and help to improve the infrastructure and services available to
the private trader. It would also enhance the Government's data collection
and analysis, improve its regulatory function, and maintain the quality of
agricultural exports.
B. The Estate Subsector
2.17          After Independence in 1964, the amount of estate land was
about 120,000 ha. However, beginning around 1970, the area under estate
cultivation expanded rapidly when the Government encouraged Malawi citizens
to take out estate leases and grow tobacco in response to the market
opportunities arising from the Rhodesian tobacco embargo. Between 1970 and
1985 total estate land increased about four fold to an estimated 600,000 ha
on about 4,000 estates, most of which grow tobacco. The majority of
tobacco estates are small with about 70Z growing tobacco on less than 5 ha.
2.18          The rapid growth in the number of estates has led to uneven
performance within the subsector. A small number of older, well-
established estates are at one extreme. They are often held under freehold
title and operated by expatriate owners. They have access to skilled
management, technical expertise and financing, often from external sources.
At the other extreme, are a large number of newer estates, many of which
are still unregistered, that are operated by Malawian owners. These
estates are often quite small and operate with low levels of managerial and
technical skills and with limited access to support services and credit.
As a consequence, many estates are under capitalized and poorly run.
Moreover, much of the land held by such estates is under utilized, while
smallholders in the same areas face growing land shortages.
Constraints to Estate Development
2.19          Support services for the Estate subsector are limited and
serve mainly the larger, long-established estates. Two institutions, The
Tea Research Foundation (TRF) and the Tobacco Research Authority (TRA)
conduct research on estate crops. These institutions are funded through
producer levies to undertake basic research on tea and tobacco. In
addition the TRA operates a limited extension service for tobacco growers.
Moreover, the agricultural departments of the commercial banks (NBM and
CBM) have a small cadre of technical staff who provide extension services
and technical advice to their borrowers in the estate subsector. However,
the scope of these services are limited and the Ministry of Agriculture's
extension service is focussed exclusively upon the smallholder sector. As
a result, the vast majority of estates have no access to technical advice
and research results.
2.20          To address the lack of access to information on improved
technology, the Government is developing plans for an autonomous estate
extension and management training service. These plans are based on a
feasibility study conducted as part of the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit. The new service is to he established with the assistance of
external donor support and would eventually become self-supporting through
financial contributions from the estates. ODA of the UK has expressed a



- 12 -
willingness to provide the initial financing for the service and the
Government is currently completing procedures for establishing the service
as a legal entity and financing its operations from contributions from the
estates. It is expected that these arrangements would be completed in the
near future and that the extension service would begin operations in 1989.
2.21          The Government's land policy also constrains efficient use of
resources in the estate subsector. Ease of entry into estate production,
low and uniform land rents and the inadequate enforcement of covenants in
estate leases have all contributed to under utilization of estate lands.
The Government in its recent Statement of Development Policy has indicated
its intention to implement a series of measures to control future expansion
of estate lands and to encourage better resource utilization in the sector.
Future Bank policy-based operations are intended to support this important
element of policy reform.
2.22          Another constraint to increased estate productivity is the
lack of credit. The only source of credit for the estates is the
commercial banking sector. Most estate credit is for seasonal crop
financing that is secured through stop orders on the tobacco auction
floors. Little medium-term financing is provided partly due to a lack of
medium-term funds but also due to the poor experience with such lending
during the rapid build up of tobacco production in the 1970s. During this
period, the commercial banks were encouraged by Government to provide
credit to new estates to help stimulate tobacco production. Despite
limited experience with agricultural credit, the banks expanded lending to
estates from about MK9 million in 1975 to above MK90 million in 1980. Most
of these loans included medium-term financing and involved low borrower
contributions and short repayment periods. High rates of default
reportedly occurred when rising input costs, poor yields and falling
international prices for tobacco created severe liquidity problems for many
borrowers. Many loans were foreclosed and the management of some estates
had to be taken over by the banks.
2.23          Although the banks suffered large losses, they have since
recovered and in the process have built considerable expertise in
agricultural lending. They have slowly rebuilt their agricultural
portfolio with loans now going to over 1,300 estates or about 30? of the
total number. However, the Bank's have focussed on seasonal financing and
there are considerable number of estate subprojects for which medium-term
credit is required.
2.24          To help meet the subsector's medium-term credit needs and to
test mechanisms for channelling such credit through existing banking
institutions, a pilot credit line of US$4.5 million was established under
the Industrial and Agricultural Credit project (Ln. 2646-MAI) which was
declared effective in July 1986. Three institutions were selected to
participate in the pilot including the National Bank of Malawi, the
Commercial Bank of Malawi and INDEBANK. The funds are available to either
of the three institutions on a first come first serve basis at 10.5Z
interest for on-lending to sub-borrowers for periods of between three and
six years at interest rates of between 11.5 and 15Z p.a. (recently adjusted
to 16X p.a.). The subloans are to be made to estate farmers with
established rights to their land and competent management. All subprojects
are to be technically and financially feasible and are to be for land



- 13 -
improvement, the development of estate infrastructure and the purchase of
machinery. Emphasis is to be given to intensification of tobacco
production or diversification !nto other farm enterprises. Maximum size of
the subloans is to be the kwacha equivalent of US$250,000 for projects not
involving irrigation and US$500,000 for irrigation projects.
2.25          The experience with the first two years of the loan clearly
demonstrates the demand for medium-term financing in the subsector. Twelve
subloans have already been approved for almost US$4.0 million and projects
in the pipeline and expected to be approved shortly are expected to account
for the remaining credit line. Details of the loans are shown in Annex 3.
Most are at or near the established maximum limit on loan size. Seven
involve irrigation for expanded coffee and mixed crop production, three are
for the purchase or rehabilitation of tractors, one is for rehabilitation
of tea processing facilities, and another is for the construction of an
estate-run cotton gin. Each of the loan proposals so far approved have
been reviewed by the Bank. They have been well prepared and the approved
investments promise to contribute significantly to the Project's objective
of diversifying and intensifying estate production. However, the loans
have benefited a few out of the 4,100 estates and have gone mostly to large
corporate enterprises, many of which are owned by expatriates. Those
failing to benefit from the Project are the smaller Malawian-owned estates.
2.26          The estate credit line in the proposed Project is intended to
build on the experience with the pilot credit component under the
Industrial and Agricultural Credit project. It would continue to offer
medium-term credit in support of subprojects to diversify and intensify
estate production. However, it would endeavor to broaden the impact of the
credit line by making it available to a larger number of estates, with
special emphasis on the smaller estates.
C. The Financial System
2.27          The financial sector of Malawi includes the Reserve Bank of
Malawi (RBM), and twelve institutions that provide a variety of financial
services. All banking institutions are regulated in accordance with the
provisions of the Banking Act. Six institutions provide financing to the
agricultural sector. These include the two Commercial Banks, National Bank
of Malawi and Commercial Bank of Malawi, and two development finance
companies, the Investment and Development Bank (INDEBANK) and the Small
Enterprise Development Organization (SEDOM). INDEFUND, a subsidiary of
INDEBANK, also provides limited financing for agriculture. In addition
both seasonal and medium-term credit to the smallholder agriculture is
administered through the National Rural Development Program (NRDP) with
overall coordination provided by the recently established Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA).
RBM
2.28          RBM acts as the central bank and regulates the banking system
and implements national monetary and credit policies in close cooperation
with the Ministry of Finance. RBM recently completed deregulation of all
lending and savings rates. Monetary policy tools include the credit
ceilings for the Government and private sector borrowings and the minimum
liquidity requirement for the commercial banks. It also manages Malawi's



- 14 -
international reserves and administers the foreign exchange control system
in cooperation with the commercial banks. RBM can lend to the commercial
banks, the Government, and also to any statutory board, subject to approval
by the Ministry of Finance.
2.29          The central government budget deficits are financed mainly by
borrowings from the banking sector and from RBM. Central government
notes, loans and advances from 80Z (MK543 million) of the total assets of
RBM (MK676 million) as of December 31, 1986. The current budget deficit
(1987/88) represents 8.92 of the GDP, and is expected to decline to 6.5%
during the fiscal year 1988/89. The commercial banking sector deposits
with RBM were MK184 million as of December 31, 1987.
2.30          Recent monetary policy measures include,the devaluation of
the Kwacha by 15Z in January 1988. This measure was followed by the
liberalization of the foreign exchange controls for imports of raw
materials including farm inputs as well as spare parts. These items
represent 25? of the total imports to Malawi. From the beginning of March
1988, RBM also ceased interest payments for the commercial bank' overnight
deposits which exceed the 302 minimum liquidity requirements level.
The Commercial Banks
2.31          The two commercial banks in Malawi are the National Bank of
Malawi (NBM) and Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM). Both banks were
established about 17 years ago as joint ventures between Malawian and
foreign investors. Over the years most of the foreign interests in both
banks have been sold.  NBM is currently owned by Press Holdings (47.4Z),
ADMARC (32.6Z) and Standard Chartered Bank Africa (20Z). CBM is owned 402
by Press Holdings, and 30X each by the Government of Malawi and the Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC).   NBM is the larger of the two banks with
nearly three times the financial resources and volume of operations of CMB.
It has 14 branches and 63 agency locations throughout the country and about
1,200 employees. It is managed by Standard Chartered Bank under service
agreement. There are seven expatriates and seven Malawian experts working
in the Agricultural Department of NBM. Despite CMB's smaller operating
base, it has a considerable geographic spread with 13 branches and over 80
agencies.
2.32          Both banks have had reasonably strong balance sheets in the
last two years, continuing their recovery from the late 1970's when falling
prices led to numerous defaults on loans to newly established tobacco
estates. NBM's total assets grew by about 25% in 1986 to MK457 million
while CBM's assets grew at a more modest rate (about 17Z) to MK131 million.
Total loans by both banks reached MK232 million in 1986, rising by over
MK39 million from the previous year's level (see Annex 7).  Nevertheless,
the balance sheets of the both commercial banks are characterized by a high
proportion of investments .i GOM securities and deposits with RBM. Between
55 to 60% of both banks' assets were on deposit with RBM at the end of 1986
and this proportion rose in 1987. This high level of liquidity results
from a good year for tobacco, import restrictions, and a Government
ceilings on the growth of credit. However, it is expected that foreign



- 15 -
exchange liberalization measures introduced recently should reduce the
current level of liquidity. The banks' profits have also increased and
they were able to pay dividends for a second year in row in 1986.
2.33          Both banks offer financing to the main sectors of the economy
including agriculture, industry, construction, t;ansportation and trade.
Most financing is for short-term working capital to established customers
and is secured by assets and sound investment proposals. Potential
borrowers are usually required to provide from 30 to 40Z of the Project
cost from their own resources. Loans are regularly supervised by
specialized staff in the branch offices and management is kept informed
about the performance of each borrower through regular supervisions. The
stringent and conservative loan procedures have helped to restore the
banks' loan portfolio to good health. However, in the process, most
Malawian entrepreneurs have found it difficult to secure commercial bank
credit lines. Moreover, the administrative costs of the small loans
required by the typical Malawian enterprise are making it highly
unprofitable for the banks to service many of them.
Development Finance Institutions
2.34          There are three development finance institutions in Malawi,
each with distinct clientele. SEDOM is designed to service small
businesses and offers loans up to MK75,000. INDEFUND is intended to
service a clientele with slightly larger enterprises and offers a range of
loans from MK30,000 to MK150,000. INDEBANK is the largest and concentrates
on large projects, handling loans above MK150,000. SEDOM's portfolio
emphasizes short and medium-term loans while the other two institutions
focus on longer term investment projects.
2.35          Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi (SEDOM):
SEDOM was established as a trust under the supervision of the Ministry of
Trade, Industry, and Tourism in 1982, with the assistance of the European
Economic Community. It is a development institution with the objective of
assisting small entrepreneurs with technical advisory services, training
and financial assistance. The training and advisory services are provided
free of charge to clients and include business training, accounting and
record keeping. On average 115 clients utilize these services each month.
SEDOM's funds for on-lending as well as a major part of its operational
costs have been provided in the form of grants from the Government, the
European Development Fund (EEC) and the Kreditanstaff fur Wiederaufbau
(KFW). In addition, SEDOM received a credit of ECU1.8 million, carrying an
interest rate of 0.75Z, from KFW at the end of last fiscal year.
2.36          SEDOM had about 2,300 loans outstanding as of December 1987
with a total value of MK3,766,000. Of these loans, 327 were term loans
with an average size of MK10,700 and a maturity of 24 months.  The
remaining loans were mostly seasonal "mini loans' which average MK1,500.
About 25Z of the outstanding loans were for grain milling and food
processing activities. Interest rates on SEDOM's loans are within the range
of commercial banking rates. SEDOM has a staff of 130, up from 35 just
three years ago. Its headquarters is located in Blantyre with branches in
Lilongwe, and Mzuzu.



- 16 -
2.37           SEDOM has a strong loan portfolio with only 14Z of its
outstanding loans over 30 days overdue and less than 4% over 90 days
overdue. This good performance can be traced to stringent lending
procedures, careful subproject supervision and support by the technical
advisory services. Considerable effort is made to follow-up on delinquent
borrowers and defaults. Despite its good lending record, SEDOM is a long
way from being financially viable. Its revenue from lending only covers
about 17 to 20T of its operating expenses despite the fact that the funds
it receives for on-lending are or on highly concessional terms. This poor
financial performance stems largely from the free training and advisory
services SEDOM provides and its high cost of administering small loans.
2.38          SEDOM ultimately aims to cover its operational costs though
it will require operating subsidies for some time to come. To this end, an
agreement for a third phase development period covering 1988-1991 has just
been signed by the Government, KFW, and EEC. The agreement provides for
technical assistance and financial support for expanded lending activities.
The agreement also calls for the funding of SEDOM's training and advisory
services from sources other than internally generated revenues. This step
along with strengthened internal cost controls should considerably improve
SEDOM's financial viability.
2.39          Investment and Development Bank of Malawi - INDEBANK.
INDEBANK was established in 1972 as a private limited liability company.
Its basic objective is to promote economic development by providing medium
and long-term loans and making equity investments mainly in industrial and
agricultural projects sponsored by private or public investors. It
emphasizes projects financed by Malawian interests and encourages foreign
investors to find local partners. Its portfolio shows the following
sectoral distribution: agriculture - 3.5%; agro-industry - 39.2z; industry
- 26.3Z; property development - 12.3Z; hotels - 9.2Z; and finance, commerce
and services - 9.5%.
2.40          INDEBANK is owned 24.82 by ADMARC, 8.6X by IFC and 22.22 each
by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), the German Finance
Company for Investments in Developing Countries (DEG) and Netherlands
Finance Company for Developing Countries (FMO). Its authorized capital is
MK7 million with paid up capital amounting to MK6.8 million.  Moreover,
MK15.25 million in additional resources have been provided by INDEBANK's
shareholders in the form of Income Notes. These notes are unsecured, bear
an interest rate of 8Z and are repayable by the year 2020. INDEBANK's
Board of Directors consists of eight members including a representative of
ADMARC who serves as chairman and two representatives each f.om CDC, DEG,
and FMO. IFC has the eighth seat on the Board.
2.41          INDEFUND.  This development finance institution is a
subsidiary of INDEBANK with a paid-up share capital of MK1,670,000 of which
62Z is subscribed by INDEBANK and the remaining 38Z by EMO. It was set up
in 1981 to finance projects between MK30,000 and MX150,000.  It has funded
its loan portfolio mainly from foreign sources including KFW (MK2.5
million), FMO (MK3.2 million) and a pledge from USAID fMK1.2 million).  Its
debt-equity ratio is presently about 6:1.  Although it has an independent
Board and management, the General Manager of INDEBANK plays an important
role in its policy and investment decisions.



- 17 -
2.42          As of January 31, 1986, INDEFUND had approved 71 loans
totalling MK2.8 million of which it had disbursed about MK1.8 million.  The
average loan size was about MK54,OuO. Most of its loans are for a term of
five years, including the grace period of a year. It charges an interest
rate of 16.52 p.a. on its loans.  Over 60Z of the value of INDEFUND's loans
has been to projects in manufacturing and agro-industries. Other projects
financed have been in agriculture and trade. Since its inception, INDEFUND
has made losses which have totalled almost MKl.O million by the end of
FY87. These losses are attributable to a high rate of arrears on its loans
and high loan supervision and other overhead costs. INDEFUND has had
problems in controlling loan delinquencies and recovering loan principal
from defaulters. New management has also been put in place recently to
correct these deficiencies which should help strengthen INDEFUND's
portfolio and income prospects in the future.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and DesiRn
Proiect Obiectives
3.01          The proposed Project would support two development
objectives.  First, it would aim to improve agricultural marketing and
increase rural incomes by supporting Government efforts to develop a multi-
channel marketing system. Second it would seek to improve resource
utilization and productivity on estates by providing medium-term credit to
intensify and diversify production. In achieving these aims, the Project
would address the barriers to entry into agricultural trade faced by
Malawian entrepreneurs and the factors that constrain the availability of
credit to estates, particularly the smaller estates established since
independence by Malawian owners. The Project would also assist the
Government in carrying out its regulatory, promotional, and monitoring
functions with regard to the private trade in smallholder crops.
Project Design
3.02          The Project design is consistent with Government efforts to
improve the existing system for rural credit delivery. The pilot component
for estates under the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project and the
recent steps to strengthen the smallholder credit system under the
Smallholder Credit Project were initial elements in a strategy to develop a
low cost and reliable rural credit system by using existing financial
institutions. This approach has been adopted in view of the high costs
associated with establishing and operating a new institution focussed on
rural credit. The proposed Project would build on these initiatives by
expanding the scope of estate lending by existing institutions and
promoting new credit lines aimed at the private trade in smallholder crops.
The design also reflects the desire to minimize where possible the use of
technical assistance personnel and to limit the impact of the Project on
the Government's recurrent budget.
B. Proiect Summary and Description
3.03          The Project, which would be implemented over a period of
seven years, would comprise the following components:



- 18 -
(a) estate development and agricultural marketing and
processing involving:
(i) subprojects to intensify and diversify estate
production;
(ii) investment in support of agricultural processing and
marketing; and
(iii)  a pilot scheme to finance the short and medium-term
credit requirements of rural traders specializing in
the assembly, storage and transportation of
smallholder crops.
(b)  institutional strengthening in the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Malawi Bureau of Standards to
imprc'e market policy analysis and develop market
services, including market intelligence, regulatory and
quality control systems; and
(c)  training of private merchants and construction and
improvement of selected rural markets identified as
potential growth centers for private trade in
agricultural produce.
C. Detailed Features
Credit Component
3.04          The proposed Project would provide funds through RBM for
subprojects in support of the Government's objectives of expanding and
diversifying production in the estate subsector and developing a multi-
channel marketing system for smallholder crops. The funds would help meet
the demand in the estate subsector for medium-term credit and the credit
needs emerging from the Government's liberalization of smallholder
marketing. The funds would be provided as loans through existing financial
institutions for subprojects that are technically and financially sound.
The financial institutions expected to participate include NBM, CMB, and
INDEBANK. These institutions would combine their own funds with IDA funds
to support viable subprojects. A separate pilot credit scheme to be
operated by SEDOM would address the credit needs of rural traders.  The
loans would be made by the participating institutions using loan procedures
that have been agreed with IDA.
3.05          Estate Development.  Estate development subprojects to be
financed comprise:
(a)  establishment of new or expansion of existing estate
crops, including overhead expenditures for staff,
machinery and vehicle operation;
(b)  land improvements such as irrigation, drainage and
establishment ot woodlotG;



- 19 -
(c) development and rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure
such as curing barns, processing and grading facilities,
boreholes and storage sheds;
(d) purchase, rehabilitation and maintenance of farm
equipment and machinery; and
(e) purchase of livestock.
Estates that are soundly managed, have evidence of clear title to land, and
are engaged in financially viable productive activities would be eligible
for financing under the Project.
3.06          The demand for this type of development is clearly evident
from the rapid commitment of funds under the Industrial an Agricultural
Credit Project, where the supply of credit funds was far outstripped by
demand from large diversified estates. Moreover, in the last few years,
the commercial banks have developed seasonal lend'.ng instruments for
smaller estates and they see ample scope for medium-term credit to these
borrowers as well. The proposed credit facility would be designed to reach
these small estates as well as the larger and more diversified ones. To
this end, two broad categories of estates have been identified. The first
category would include estates whose annual turnover exceeds US$200,000.
This group numbers about 500 and includes the estates that received credit
under the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project. They are well
diversified and many are owned by expatriates. Loans in this category
would concentrate on larger subprojects aimed at expanding tobacco
production and diversifying into other crops such as coffee, cotton, wheat,
macademia, etc., often through irrigation schemes. The second category
would include estates with annual turnover of less than US$200,000. These
estates were established after independence, are mostly Malawian owned and
are currently devoted almost exclusively to tobacco. Loans in this
category would, therefore, finance investments in buildings and equipment
to expand and improve the quality of tobacco production although some
diversification subprojects may emerge. The project-assisted lending
program for estates would be determined by market forces and there will be
no allocation of funds by crops or types of investments. An indicative
lending program is shown in Annex 3 based on the experience with the
Indu.trial and Agricultural Estate Credit Project for the large estates and
representative models of some of the types of subprojects that are expected
to emerge for smaller estates.
3.07          Agro-industrial Subproiects.  The Project would provide
medium-term credit for the development or rehabilitation of agro-industrial
facilities (maize mills, cotton ginneries, rice mills and cassava and oil
prccessing plants, etc) the construction or rehabilitation of storage,
handling and grading facilities and/or the purchase of transport equipment
and spare parts. To qualify for loans, marketing enterprises must have
valid licenses and permits where required, should be engaged in financially
viable activities and display adequate management capacity. Much of the
demand for this credit would come from existing agro-industrial enterprises
and would include financing for the rehabilitation and expansion of
existing operations or the development of new activities. Included in this
category are the large processing firms currently owned by ADMARC and
scheduled for divestment. Once they are divested, rehabilitation of their
plant and equipment would become eligible for financing under the Project.



- 20 -
3.08          Aside from medium-term credit, a need ekists for short-term
working capital to help private marketing enterprises assume some of the
buying functions currently being handled by ADMARC. Although adequate
short-term funds exist in the banking sector to finance working capital,
the provision of loans for working capital is often constrained by the lack
of adequate security. To provide such se.,urity, the Project would promote
the establishment of warehousing facilities where crops would be held as
collateral for working capital loans. ADMARC has agreed to operate such a
system. Merchants seeking working capital financing would be required to
store commodities at selected ADMARC facilities on a fee basis. They would
be given warehouse receipts that specify the quality and quantity of the
commodities in store. These receipts would be held by the participating
financial institutions as collateral for working capital loans. The
marketing advisor to be provided under the Project (para 3.11) would assist
in developing the legal framework and operating procedures for such a
facility acceptable to the commercial banks, ADMARC and the Government.
Annex 3 describes such a system and the criteria for its operations.
3.09          Pilot Credit Scheme for Rural Merchants.  A crucial element
of the Government's efforts to liberalize smallholder trade is the
development of Malawian traders who operate in the rural markets purchasing
crops from smallholders. Such merchants operate on a small scale, have
little collateral and have limited access to formal credit markets. Thus,
their ability to assume some of the responsibility for primary marketing
currently being handled by ADMARC is constrained by the lack of suitable
financing. To test mechanisms for delivering credit in a cost effective
manner to such merchants, a pilot scheme would be implemented by SEDOM to
channel funds to rural traders who have limited ability to provide security
and contribute to the costs of subprojects. The pilot scheme would finance
both short-term credit for working capital and medium-term credit to
finance investments in storage, processing and transport. Annex 3 contains
models of the types of borrowers projected to participate in the scheme and
their likely credit requirement. SEDOM was chosen as the intermediary for
the pilot because of its experience with lending to rural enterprises, its
effective lending appraisal and supervision procedures and its ability to
provide essential advisory services. Because of the pilot nature of the
scheme, implementation would be overseen by the Pricing and Marketing
Section of the Planning Division in MOA which would be responsible ror
reviewing SEDOM's lending program to ensure that it is targeted to the
credit needs of emerging rural merchants, including women traders. The
rural financial specialist to be provided under the project (para 3.11)
would oversee implementation of the pilot.
Institutional Development Component
3.10          The Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS).  The development of
effective agricultural marketing channels comprised of both ADMAPRC and
private enterprises, calls for the expanded responsibilities in the MOA.
With private traders playing an increasing role in smallholder trade an
important responsibility for MOA, would be the analysis and formulation of
agricultural marketing policies. In addition, the Ministry would be
responsible for providing market intelligence, promotion, and regulatory
services. These responsibilities would be undertaken by the existing
Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS) in the Planning Division of the MOA
(Annex 1). The MPS consists of the Marketing and Policy Unit (MPPU), which
would be responsible for market and pricing policy and the Marketing
Services Unit (MSU), which would be responsible for market intelligence,



- 21 -
training, extension, promotion and other support services. To assist the
MPS in fulfilling its policy formulation and market support functions, the
Project would provide resources for technical assistance, vehicles and
spare parts, office supplies, equipment and rent for housing and office
space. In addition, funds for special surveys and studies would be
provided.
3.11          Technical assistance to be provided under the Project would
include an internationally-recruited marketing services advisor who would
be funded for the first three years of Project implementation and a rural
financial specialist who would be funded for two years. The marketing
services advisor would advise and assist the Chief and other MPS staff in
strengthening and maintaining marketing support services including:
standards and export quality control; storage and bonded warehousing,
credit for marketing, market intelligence, and marketing extension and
training. Guidelines for the terms of reference for this individual are
given in Annex 6. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a
marketing advisor would be recruited by March 31, 1989. The rural
financial specialist would assist MOA und SEDOM in the implementation and
monitoring of the pilot credit scheme. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that terms of reference and work program for the specialist
would be submitted to IDA for review and comment prior to March 31, 1989.
Assistance for the marketing policy function is already being provided by
an internationally recruited Price Policy Advisor, funded under the Bank-
financed Agricultural Extension and Planning Project (Credit Number 1626).
3.12          The operation of MPS hinges critically on the effective
functioning of the Planning Unit of MOA and closer collaboration with the
ADDs' staff. The number of staff positions currently allocated to the
Planning Division in MOA is adequate to carry-out the additional
responsibility under the project with the exception of statistical clerks
to help with the additional data collection and dissemination
responsibilities of MPS. Therefore, while no incremental professional
staff would be financed under the Project, funds would be made available
for two statistical clerks. However, while the number of positions is
adequate in the Planning Division, many of these have been vacant for over
a year. These vacancies have affected the Division's ability to handle its
existing work load and, if not filled, would make it impossible for it to
handle the additional responsibilities envisaged in this Project. Thus,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that four economist posts
currently vacant in the Planning Division would be filled by March 31,
1989. For most of the field work, MPS would utilize the credit/marketing
officers located in the ADDs for its data collection and market
intelligence activities to be undertaken in the field. These officers are
already involved in smallholder marketing and credit operations.
3.13          The Project would also allocate funds to the Planning
Division for data collection and analysis in the estate sector. The data
collected would be useful for policy formulation and would help the
Project's Estates and Agro-industries Coordinating Committee (para 4.02) to
manage implementation of the estate credit component. Annex 9 provides
some of the data collection and policy issues that would be considered by
MOA.



- 22 -
3.14           Trainin.  Given the current lack of marketing skills among
indigenous Malawians, the proposed Project would provide training programs
for traders. Such training would focus on subjects such as handling and
storage of crops, bookkeeping, business procedures, marketing management,
and credit operations. Particular attention would be given to training in
the safe handling and storage of pesticides used in fumigating crops (para
4.05). The organization of training for private traders is often
complicated by varying levels of prior knowledge of the subject matter,
skepticism on the part of traders as to the practical value of the
training, and reluctance to give time to training since it might conflict
with ongoing business responsibilities. A training program to be financed
under the proposed Project would be designed to minimize these conflicts.
In this regard, a pilot training program for traders, financed under the
PPF was undertaken in Malawi to ascertain the above concerns. During the
pilot training period, an evaluation was carried out by the Training and
M&E Units of MOA. The one day training, which was well attended, was
determined to be a success. Based on this evaluation, MOA has decided that
the program should be geographically expanded, and be conducted in each
ADD. The proposed Project would finance this training program. Initially,
three-day courses twice a year would be conducted, but would be reduced to
once a year in the fourth year of the Project.
3.15          The proposed Project would also finance training for MPS
staff and the credit and marketing field officers. Specifically, funds
would be provided for overseas training of three marketing officers for
period of two years each. In-service training would also be provided for
32 field credit and marketing officers who would undergo training, lasting
five days at a time, twice a year. These field officers, located in the
ADDs would be trained to be effective in providing advice to individual
traders to meet their specific needs, including assistance in storage and
handling of crops, record keeping, and obtaining credit. Funds would also
be provided for suitably qualified local trainers who would be employed on
a temporary basis to provide specialized training services.
3.16          Export Quality Control.  Given the importance of agricultural
exports to Malawi, it is critical that suitable quality standards be
maintained. Currently the procedures for maintaining quality control and
institutional responsibility for enforcing it are ambiguous (para 2.15).
Under the proposed Project, the Government has agreed that Malawi Bureau of
Standards (MBS), of the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism (MTIT)
would carry out this responsibility. MBS, which is currently responsible
for quality certification of tobacco, would extend this responsibility to
all agricultural products. MBS would be responsible for developing
procedures and testing for the quality of export consignments. MTIT would
continue with is responsibility of granting export licenses. The proposed
Project would finance the initial costs of MBS's activities. Specifically,
the proposed Project would finance salaries and wages of: one scientific
officer and one technical assistant; two inspection and sampling field
officers; external study tours, and two vehicles and equipment. A short-
term technical expert (9 man-months) in export quality control, would also
be funded.



- 23 -
Market Infrastructure Component
3.17          The Ministry of Local Government recently formulated a
National Development Physical Plan, one feature of which is the
identification of rural markets whose expansion ot improvement should be
supported by the Government. While these markets do not have adequate
facilities, they are being used extensively by farmers and traders for
trade of agriculture produce.   The Project would assist the Government's
efforts by financing the construction and/or rehabilitation of 16 district
markets. The improvements would be designed to provide better market
access, improved facilities for the display and handling of commodities,
and the provision of market storage. Improved sanitation facilities would
also be provided. The provisional sites for these infrastructural
investments are those identified in the Plan. These markets are Chilumba
and Ifumbo in Karonga ADD; Ntangatanga and Chintheche in Mzuzu ADD; Ntchisi
and Mvela in Kasungu ADD; Chimbiya and Lizulu in Lilongwe ADD; Nkhotakota
and Chipoka in Salima ADD; Namwera and Mayaka in Liwonde ADD; Kungu and
Nkado in Blantyre ADD; and Ngabu and Nsanje in Ngabu ADD (Map No. IBRD
21003). These markets have been chosen because of their accessibility to
farmers, assemblers and transporters, the volume of produce currently
handled and their potential for developing into wholesale and storage
centers. The market facilities will be rented out to farmers and traders.
D. Proiect Costs
3.18          Total costs of the proposed Project, including physical and
price contingencies, are estimated at about MK70.8 million (US$28.3
million), of which US$17.0 million or 602, represents the foreign exchange
costs. Project costs by expenditure category are summarized in Table 1
below, and details are provided in Annex 2.



- 24 -
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary by Components
(Kwacha '000)                       (US  1000)                    X Total
Local     Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total       X      Base
FE    Costs
Marketing & Estate Credit
Estate Development           18,400.0  27,800.0  46,000.0   7,360.0  11,040.0  18,400.0    so            68
Agro-Industries               4,042.6   7,607.6  11,650.0   1,617.0   3,003.0   4,620.0    65            17
Pilot Marketing Scheme        3,500.0   1,500.0   5,000.0   1,400.0        600.0   2,000.0    30          7
Sub-Total Credit                 25,942.6  36,607.6  82,550.0  10,377.0  14,643.0  26,020.0    69            90
InstituWtonal Strangthening
Pricing A Marketing Unit
Technical Assistance              -      1,580.0   1,580.0        -        832.0      632.0   100         1
Office Equipment                 16.4       81.6      77.0        6.2       24.8       30.8    80         0
Training                        464.1      208.0     872.1      186.8       83.2      288.8    81         1
Vehicles                          -        200.0     200.0        -         80.0       80.0   100         0
Information, MAE                300.0     300.0      600.0      120.0      120.0     240.0    so          1
Studies                          89.8   1,386.3   1,476.0        35.9      664.1      690.0    94         2
Incremental Salaries e
Operating Expenses             240.5     275.5      518.0       98.2      110.2     208.4    53          1
Sub-Total Pricing and Mar.    1,109.8   4,010.4   6,120.1         443.9   1,604.1   2,048.0    76           7
Bureau of Standards
Technical Assistance              -         90.0      90.0        -         38.0      38.0   100          0
Training                          -         82.0      82.0        -         32.8      32.8   100          0
Vehicles and Equipment            -       236.0      236.0        -         94.4      94.4   100          0
Incremental Salaries A
Operating Expenses             365.4     169.8      626.0      146.2      63.8      210.0    80          0
Sub-Total Bureau of Stand.        386.4    657.8       933.0      146.2      227.0      373.2    e1         1
Marketing Infrastructure
Civil Works                     689.2     883.8   1,473.0       235.7      353.6     689.2    80          2
Sub-Total Infrastructure          689.2      883.8   1,473.0      236.7      353.5      589.2    80         2
Total Baseline Costs             28,008.9  41,689.3  89,678.1  11,202.8  16,627.6  27,830.4    60           100
Physical contingencies             88.4      132.6     221.0       36.4       63.0       88.4   e8          0
Price contingencies               202.2      274.2     478.4       80.9      109.7        O.6    S8         I
Total Project Costs              28,297.5  42,478.0  70,773.4  11,319.0  16,990.4  28,309.43   60           101



- 25 -
3.19            Project base costs have been estimated at March 1988 prices
updated to January 1989 prices. Physical contingencies have been included
at a rate of 15Z on civil works. Price contingencies estimates assume, for
both foreign and local currency costs, price escalation of 3Z for 1988-1990
and 4Z per year thereafter. Price contingencies have been calculated on
the assumption that differences between domestic and international
inflation rates would be offset by the exchange rate adjustments.
E. Financing
3.20            The proposed financing plan for the Project would be as
follows:
Table 2 - Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(USS '000)
Participating               Government
IDA           Banks      Borrowers     of Malawi       Total
Amount    %    Amount   X   Amount    X   Amount X   Amount        %
Technical Assistance      689.1  100.0      -    -        -    -       -     -        689.1  1.7
Civil Works              867.0   90.0       -    -        -    -      73.0  10.0      730.0  2.6
Office Equipment          84.1  100.0       -    -        -    -       -     -         34.1  0.1
Vehicles & Equipment      186.1  100.0      -    -        -    -       -      -       185.1  0.8
Local Training             -       -        -    -        -    -    210.1 100.0       210.1  0.7
Overseas Training         126.2  100.0      -    -        -    -       -     -        126.2  0.4
Information, MAE         248.0  100.0       -    -        -    -       -     -        248.0  0.9
Studies                   698.9  100.0      -    -        -    -       -     -        698.9  2.1
Credit
Large Estate          5,520.0   60.0  1,380.0 16.0 2,300.0 25.0    -       -      9,200.0 32.7
Small Estato          5,520.0   60.0  1,380.0 16.0 2,300.0 26.0    -       -      9,200.0 32.7
Agro-industries       8,003.0   65.0    462.6 10.0 1,164.5 26.0    -       -      4,620.0 16.4
Pilot Marketing       1.499.9   75.0     -      -     600.1 26.0    0.0   0.0   2.000.0  7.1
Sub-total Credit       15,542.9   62.1  8,222.6 12.9 8,254.6 26.0    0.0   0.0  26,020.0 89.0
Incremental Salaries &
Operating expenses       198.3   41.8      -    -        -    -    273.6  68.2       469.9  1.7
Total Disbursement     18,276.6   84.3  3,222.5 11.5 6,264.6 22.3  66f.7   2.0  28,309.4 100.0
3.21            The proposed IDA Credit of US$18.3 million would be on
standard IDA terms. The Credit would cover all the foreign exchange costs
of the Project (US$17.0 million) and llZ of the local costs, or about 642
of total Project costs, net of taxes and duties. Participating banks,
final borrowers, and the Government would finance the remaining 12?, 222,
and 2? of the Project costs, respectively. It is expected that



- 26 -
participating borrowers would, overall, contribute about 25X of the costs
for the estate development, agro-industrial and marketing subprojects.
Participating credit institutions would, overall, contribute about 132
towards the costs of the subprojects. The Government would not contribute
towards the credit funds. The Government's contribution (2Z of total
Project cost or 92 excluding the credit fund), would finance part of the
Project's recurrent local costs amounting to about US$0.5 million in 7
years.
3.22          IDA funds and GOM contributions for the strengthening of
MOA's Pricing and Marketing Section (US$2.0 million) would be channelled
through MOA.  IDA funds and GOM contribution for strengthening the Malawi
Bureau of Standards would be channelled through the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism. IDA funds and GOM contribution (US$0.73 million) for
market infrastructure development would be channelled by GOM to Ministry of
Local Government (MOLG) on a grant basis, to be administered by the Local
Fund Board (LFB). These funds would then be on-lent to the local
authorities at a 42 interest rate and 5 year grace period. IDA funds for
special studies (US$0.6 million) have already been channelled to MOA under
PPF financing. The credit component (US$15.55 million) would be channelled
through RBM to participating banks, for on-lending to eligible borrowers,
in accordance with terms and conditions of a subsidiary financing
agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be signed between the RBM and each of
the participating banks. The proposed Project would increase the
Government's budgetary allocation by only about US$0.5 million in 7 years.
F. Procurement
3.23          Procurement under the proposed Project would be in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. Machinery, vehicles, irrigation equipment,
materials, seedlings and other supplies required by estate growers under
the credit lines would be procured by the farmers themselves from local
dealers or through direct import. Given that the size of individual
investments would be too small and bulking of contracts would not be
possible because of their diversity and the wide dispersal of estates and
traders in Malawi, neither international competitive bidding (ICB) nor
local competitive bidding (LCB) would be feasible under this component.
For civil work construction and land preparation/clearing, they would
arrange for contractors of their own choice. Private contractors are
available for construction of civil works on a competitive basis.
Participating banks would ensure that che goods and services to be financed
under the credit component are the most appropriate for the profitable
operation of the subprojects and obtained at reasonable prices.
3.24          Orders for vehicles, spare parts, equipment and office
supplies for the non-credit components (US$0.22 million) would be bulked as
far as possible, and orders of US$200,000 or above would be subject to ICB
procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts below US$100,000
equivalent would be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB),
according to Local Procedures which are acceptable to IDA, with contracts
for less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$100,000 being



- 27 -
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers. Local
procurement would also be open to Bank-member countries. Civil work
construction of the market infrastructure component would be too small and
scattered to attract international interest. Procurement would, therefore,
be by contracts awarded following locally advertised bidding subject to IDA
approval. Foreign firms would be entitled to compete. If approved by IDA,
works procurement could be by force account of the MOLG. The selection and
employment of technical assistance personnel would be in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
procurement procedures outlined above would be followed, and that all
technical assistance personnel would be employed under terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to IDA. Procurement arrangements are summarized
below, with the amount to be financed by IDA credit in parenthesis.
Procurement Methiod
(US$ million)
ICB      LCB      Other      Total Cost
Technical Assistance           -         -          .69         .69
=        -          (.69)      (.69)
Civil works                    -         0.73      -           0.73
(0.66)     _          (0.66)
Overseas training              -         -          .13         .13
(.13)      (.13)
Local training                 -         -         0.21        0.21
-        -         (0.00)     (0.00)
Studies (PPF financing)        -         -         0.60        0.60
-        -        (0.60)      (0.60)
Information, M&E               -         -         0.25        0.25
-        -          (.25)      (.25)
Vehicles, equipment
and office supplies           0.22      -         -           0.22
(0.22)    -         -          (0.22)
Credit                                   -        25.0        25.0
-        -        (15.55)    (15.55)
Operating cost                 -         -         0.47        0.47
-        -         (0.20)     (0.20)
Total                          0.22      0.73     27.35       28.30
(0.22)   (0.66)   (17.42)    (18.30)



- 28 -
G. Disbursement
3.25          The total IDA financing (US$18.3) would be disbursed over a
7-year period. The rate of disbursement has been adjusted to reflect the
Bank' standard disbursement profile for Malawi. It is also based on the
experience with the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, which has
generated loan approval at a faster rate than anticipated at appraisal.
Disbursement would be made from IDA credit on the following basis.
Amount
US$ million
IDA         Proposed Disbursement Percentage
Credit
Estates                       11.00      100Z of expenditures financed
under subloans
Agro-industries                2.90       1002 of expenditures financed
under subloans
Pilot Marketing (SEDOM)        1.40      1002 of expenditures financed
under subloans
Vehicles, equipment
and office supplies             0.20      1002 of expenditures
Technical assistance             0.80      1002 of expenditures
& Overseas Training
Operating costs                  C.20      422 of expenditures
Information, M&E                 0.20      1002 of expenditures
Civil works                      0.65      902 of expenditures
Refinancing of PPF utilized      0.70      1002 expenditures
Unallocated                      0.25      1002 of expenditures
Total                           18.30
3.26          To facilitate disbursement of funds under the proposed
Project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would
establish two special accounts in financial institutions acceptable to IDA.
Special account number one would be established in a commercial bank and
administered by the RBM. This account would provide funds for expenditures
incurred on subloans made by INDEBANK, CBM, NBM, and SEDOM relating to the
estate development, agro-industrial and pilot marketing credit lines.
Special account number two would be established in a commercial bank and
administered by the MOA and would be used to finance expenditures by MOA,
MBS, and MOLG relating to the institutional strengthening and market
infrastructure components. IDA would, upon credit effectiveness and
receipt of withdrawal applications, make an advance deposit of US$500,000
in the first special account and US$200,000 in the second special account.
IDA would periodically replenish the accounts upon receipt and approval of



- 29 -
the withdrawal applications, together with satisfactory evidence that the
expenditures paid from the special account were eligible for financing from
the Project.
3.27          Disbursements against the credit component would be on the
basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs) and would cover 10OX of subloans.
Disbursement for any civil work carried out by force account would be on
the basis of certificate of expenditure signed by the PS and financial
controller (Senior Accountant) of MOLG, chairman of LFB and the clerk
(chief executive) of the respective District Councils. For the
disbursements under force accounts, supporting documents would be retained
for inspection by the supervision missions. Disbursement on operating and
maintenance costs would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure,
signed by the PS and the financial controller of MOA for MOA expenditures,
and by General Manager and Chief Account of MBS for the expenditures by
MBS. SOEs would be accepted for contracts of less than US$20,000
equivalent for vehicles, equipment, and office supplies; technical
assistance and overseas training; operating costs; information, monitoring,
and evaluation. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. Full supporting documentation in respect to SOEs would be
retained by the borrower and made available for inspection by IDA during
normal Project supervision. Actual withdrawals would be made by suitably
operating the special account. An indicative schedule of disbursement is
shown in Annex 2. The completion date for this Project would be December
31, 1995, and the closing date would be six months after this date.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Project Coordination
4.01          The overall responsibility for the execution of the proposed
Project would rest with the MOA and RBM. Within the Ministry, the
permanent Secretary would be responsible for efficient Project
implementation and for insuring coordination among institutions
participating in the proposed Project. The RBM would be responsible for
administering the credit lines and operating the special account
established for the credit component. To help focus the management of this
Project, two coordinating committees would be established as follows:
(a) a Marketing Committee (MC) to oversee the implementation
of the institutional strengthening component, the pilot
credit for rural traders and the market infrastructure
component. This Committee, under the chairmanship of
the Secretary for Agriculture, would include
representatives from MOF, RBM, EP&D, MBS, MOLG, MTIT,
SEDOM, ADMARC and representatives from the private
traders.   The Planning Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture would provide the executive support for this
committee; and



- 30 -
(b) an Estates and Agro-industries Committee (EAC) to
oversee the implementation of the credit lines through
INDEBANK, CBM and NBM. This committee, under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance, would include representatives from RBM, MOA,
EP&D, MTIT, NBM, CBM, INDEBANK, the Estate Extension
Service, and Estate representatives. Executive support
would be provided by the Planning Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
The committees, would meet ss necessary, but at least twice a year, to
review Project progress ar; to make recommendations on any necessary
changes in Project implemen.tation. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these committees would be established before credit
effectiveness.
Marketing Policy and Support Services
4.02          The Planning Department of MOA would be strengthened to
reorient the Government's role in analysis and formulation of marketing
policies and in facilitating the operation of a private marketing system.
The two units, the Market Services Unit (MSU) and the Marketing Policy and
Pricing Unit (MPPU), within the Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS) would
be reorganized to accommodate the added responsibilities for the
Department. MSU's overall responsibility would be to promote agricultural
marketing by providing marketing support services for smallholder
agriculture and assisting in the formulation of appropriate marketing
policies. In particular, MSU would be responsible for strengthening and
maintaining, in collaboration with other relevant bodies, services with
regard to:
(a) monitoring of the smallholder marketing system,
including development, collection, and dissemination of
timely market intelligence and information or the impact
of the market liberalization measures;
(b) marketing extension, including organization and
management of a continuing training program for private
traders;
(c) collaboration and review with participating financial
institutions procedures for financing private marketing
entrepreneurs;
(d)  assistance to MPPU in development and/or review of
marketing policies, regulations, and procedures for an
effective agricultural marketing system;
(e) assistance to the Bureau of Standards to develop and
implement standards of product quality and packaging and
export quality control;
(f) liaison with Food Security Committee in OPC to include
monitoring of quantities marketed and prices and
indicators of shortage;



- 31 -
(g) organization of storage, including capacity
requirements, standards, regulations, stock data, bonded
warehouses, etc.; and
(h) assistance to MOLG in development of market-
infrastructure.
4.03          In addition to MPPU's ongoing price policy function, it
would be responsible for undertaking market policy analysis including:
(a)  examination of the future role of ADMARC;
(b) consideration of the marketing aspects of national food
security and buffer stock operations;
(c) analysis of the impact of the market liberalization;
(d) individual commodity assessments; and
(e) ongoing review of market regulations.
4.04          In carrying out its other responsibilities in the field, the
MPS would draw oa the services of credit and marketing officers in the
ADDs. Examples of the type of data that would be required by MPS in
undertaking its market analysis and support functions are presented in
Annex 8.
Training
4.05          The training program under the proposed Project would be
organized by the Planning Department. The Department would determine
priority training needs of the marketing and credit staff and traders, and
appoint candidates for overseas and local training. The general manager of
MBS would determine the candidates for the export quality control study
tours. In conducting the training program, the Planning Department would
call upon qualified trainers from SEDOM, DEMATT, ADMARC, and other
institutions able to provide suitably qualified people. ADMARC, in
particular would be responsible for providing training on the proper use
and safe handling of pesticides used in the storage of agricultural
commodities. Such training would be undertaken in collaboration with the
ADDs and the Planning Department would assure that women traders have
sufficient access to training opportunities. The Marketing Services
Adviser, to be recruited under the Project, would specifically be
responsible for developing a practical program, organizing and overseeing a
continuing training program for private traders as well as for staff.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MPS would submit its annual
training programs to IDA for review and comment by March 31 of each year.
Export Quality Control
4.06          The General Manager of the MBS would be responsible for the
establishment and implementation of an export quality control system for
the agricultural products. An agreement was reached between the Government
and the appraisal mission that the quality control responsibilities would



- 32 -
be given to the Bureau. It is expected that the MBS would assume full
responsibility for agricultural export control by October 31, 1989, and an
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The Bureau of
Standards' overall responsibilities would be to:
(a)  establish base facilities and infrastructure for the
national agricultural export quality control system;
(b)  ensure that agricultural export products meet minimum
quality requirements for Malawi and the importing
country;
(c)  improve and raise the quality level of Malawi's
agricultural exports;
(d)  assure exporters that their export agricultural products
comply with Malawi standards and foreign standards and
regulations; and
(e)  establish procedures for testing the quality of
agricultural export consignment.
4.07          The Ministry of Trade Industries and Tourism (MTXT) would
continue to be respensible for granting export licenses. Exporters would
carry the obligation to obtain certification according to export quality
criteria established by the MTIT. Exporters would be required to pay a fee
for export quality certification as a contribution towards its cost. MBS
would periodically evaluate its export quality control system as
implemented to ensure that the criteria and procedures used are in line
with current commercial requirements.
Regulation of the Private Trade
4.08          The Marketing and Pricing Section in collaboration with other
relevant institutions, is responsible for developing and reviewing
marketing policies, regulations, and procedures to ensure effective
operation of a private marketing system. In this context the appraisal
mission reviewed the existing regulations and found them acceptable with
one exception. Under existing market regulations, traders are required to
operate at markets under the control ADMARC or District, Town, Municipal or
city councils, they are not permitted to buy directly from farmers in the
field. This regulation imposes unnecessary costs on farmers who must
transport their produce to designated markets where traders are permitted
to operate.  Thus, assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOA would
undertake an analysis of the impact of its market reform measures,
including the effects of the regulations requiring traders to operate in
designated markets. The results of this review would be reviewed with IDA
and agreed changes would be implemented by March 31, 1990. Moreover,
assurances were obtained that any subsequent proposals for changes in
marketing regulations would be reviewed and agreed with IDA prior to their
implementation.



- 33 -
Market Infrastructure Development
4.09          MOLG would be responsible for approving and supervising the
construction of market infrastructure under the proposed Project. MOLG
would assist the district councils in selecting the market sites. The
District Councils would construct these markets in accordance with MOLG's
designs, which would be approved by IDA.
Estate Development, Agro-industries and Rural Traders
4.10          The Project would provide financing to estate owners, agro-
industries, transporters, and merchants for estate development, agro-
industrial and marketing :.iubprojects. Financed institutions expected to
participate in administering the proposed credit lines include the
commercial banks (NCB and CBM), INDEBANK and SEDOM. The two commercial
banks and INDEBANK would finance estate development and agro-industries
subprojects. SEDOM would operate a pilot credit line in support of rural
merchants.
Credit Terms and Conditions
4.11          Funds for estate development, agro-industries and the pilot
marketing scheme would be channeled through RBM to the pa:ticipating banks
for subprojects on terms and conditions to be defined in subsidiary loan
agreements acceptable to IDA. The execution of such a subsidiary loan
agreement between RBM and a participating institution would be a condition
of disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit to that institution. Draft
terms and conditions of on-lending from RBM to participating banks and from
participating bank to final borrowers are summarized in Annex 4. These
conditions of lending would be agreed during negotiations and would be
reflected in the subsidiary loan agreements.
4.12          Estate Development.  Funds in support of estate development
would be made available through NBM, CBM and INDEBANK. This credit line
has been designed to channel much of the proposed credit funds to
subprojects on smaller estates. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that at least 50Z or US$5.5 million of the US$11.0 million in IDA funds
earmarked for estate lending would be targeted for lending to small estates
(para 3.06).
4.13          The funds for estate development would be available to the
participating Banks on a first come first serve basis. It is recognized
that the commercial banks, because of their extensive branch networks and
experience with lending seasonal credit to smaller estates would likely
handle most of the 5.5 million earmarked for small estate lending.
Nevertheless, INDEBANK has indicated an interest in developing a pipeline
of small estate subprojects.



- 34 -
4.14          Lending to small estates would be monitored by RBM and the
Estates and Agro-industries Committee (EAC) to ensure that reasonable
efforts are being made to achieve the target lending levels. The
monitoring effort would be on the basis of quarterly compliance reports to
be prepared by each participating bank (Annex 5).
4.15          To ensure that the benefits of the IDA credit for estates are
spread as widely as possible lending limits will be imposed. For the
smaller estates, assurances were obtained at negotiations that no
individual estate would be able to take cumulative loans from this credit
line of more than US$150,000. In addition the limits set for individual
large loans in the Industrial and Agricultural Project of US$250,000 for
rainfed projects, and US$500,000 for irrigated projects would be maintained
in the proposed credit line.
4.16          Agro-Industries Subprojects.  IDA resources totaling about
US$3.5 million would be made available to CBM, NBM and INDEBANK on a first
come basis in support of agricultural processing subprojects. Considerable
demand for this type of credit has emerged in the past year. To satisfy
this demand and to accelerate Project benefits, the Project would provide
for the retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million to finance eligible
subprojects approved after July 1, 1988.
4.17          It is expected that the participating banks, in addition to
supporting the traditional agro-industries, would also finance small-scale
processing, transport, storage and handling of agricultural products in
rural areas in support of the rural traders emerging as a result of the
trade liberalization policy. There would be no limit on individual loan
size for the agro-processing project.
4.18          Lending Terms for the Estate Development and Agro-industries
Credit Line. Lending terms to the final borrowers would include a
repayment period that is consistent with the useful life of the investment
up to a maximum of 12 years. A grace period for repayment of principal of
up to four years could be allowed, depending on the nature of the
subproject. For estate development, those eligible for subloans would have
to show evidence of clear title to land. They would also have to
demonstrate competent management and their proposals would have to be
technically and financially viable. For agro-industries, borrowing
enterprises must have valid licenses and permits, where required, and
should display adequate management skills. They should also be prepared to
submit sound technical and financial proposals.



- 35 -
4.19          The participating banks would have the discretion to
determine the interest rate charged to their borrowers, on a case-by-case
basis, but they would offer rates that fall within prevailing market
conditions. Lending rates recently have been deregulated in Malawi and are
now market determined. Nevertheless, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the participating Banks would annually review and revise
their lending rates to ensure that they are: (i) in line with the overall
interest rate structure in the country; and (ii) adequate to obtain the
project objectives.
4.20          The spreads between the Banks' interest rate to the final
borrowers and the rates charged by RBM for IDA funds would be pegged at 5Z
for large estate and agro-industries loans and 7Z for small estate loans.
At the current lending rate of 16Z, the RBM lending rate would be liZ for
large estates and agro-industries. The difference in large and small
estate spreads is in recognition of the higher cost and risks associated
with lending to smaller estates. To maintain these spreads, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the RBM would adjust the on-lending rate
to the participating banks on a point-for-point basis when agricultural
lending rates change. As in the Industrial and Agricultural Credit
Project, the Government would bear the exchange rate risk on subloans to
both the agricultural estates and agro-industrial enterprises. The
difference between the IDA lending rate to the Government and the rate paid
by the participating banks would go towards covering the foreign exchange
risk.
4.21          Subproject Preparation and Appraisal.  Each participating
institution making loans for estate development and agro-indus;rial
subprojects would have full autonomy to approve or reject subprojects
financed under the projects. They would be responsible for all aspects of
subproject v.dentification, preparation, appraisal and supervision.
Subproject documentation or feasibility studies would be required of all
prospective sub-borrowers. For the small estates, where loans would often
be less than US$100,000, the preparation documents would be comprised of a
simple letter of application that would provide relevant financial
background and a description of how the loan proceeds would be utilized.
The application would be evaluated and approved by participating bank staff
in accordance with established practices and procedures that have been
found to be adequate by IDA. More detailed subproject preparation and
appraisal methods would be required for loans above US$100,000.
Preparation reports for such loans would be the responsibility of the sub-
borrower who would likely seek assistance from hired consultants when
preparing subprojects. Proposals would contain a project description, an
organizational and legal framework of the borrowing unit, a technical
review, marketing and management analysis, project implementation schedule
and production and financing plans. A detailed list of required subproject
documentation is provided in Annex 5. Similar documentation requirements
were utilized under the Industrial and Agricultural Credit project and were
found satisfactory by IDA.
4.22          Each subproject would be subject to appraisal by the
participating banks. Appraisal would include a detailed review of
technical, organizational, managerial, and financial aspects. Draft
criteria for appraisal are included in Annex 5. The technical analysis



- 36 -
would include an analysis of the environmental impact of the Project and a
description of measures to be taken to control any detrimental efcects on
the environment or population (para 4.38 and 4.39). All the participating
banks proposed for on-lending to the estates and larger marketing
enterprises have already adopted appraisal methodology under the Industrial
and Agricultural Credit Project that have been found acceptable by IDA.
Nevertheless, assurances were obtained at negotiations that each
participating bank would submit to IDA for its review and approval samples
of appraisal documents for small estates subprojects, the large estates
subprojects, and marketing enterprises subprojects. Thereafter, spot
checks on subloan applications and appraisal would be undertaken during
IDA's regular supervisions. Moreover, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that financial rates of return would be calculated for all
subloans above US$100,000 and that no subloans would be financed with FRR's
of less than 12Z.
4.23          As these banks are holding the loan risk, there would be no
loan approval required from either RBM or IDA. However, if it is fomnd
that IDA on-lending proceeds were not being utilized for the purposes
intended by this credit, all disbursements to the participating bank would
be suspended and the bank would be obligated to immediate repayment to RBM
for those loans found not to have been satisfactorily made.
4.24          Reporting on loans both to RBM and IDA, would be on the basis
of the periodic withdrawal requests consisting of loan data summaries and a
consolidated drawdown requests. In the case of the small estate sector
these reports would be quarterly, while for the large estates and agro-
processing subpro,ects, they would be prepared at the time of each drawdown
request on a project by project basis. However, for IDA, the large estate
drawdown reports would be held and submitted on a quarterly basis.
4.25          Revolving Fund and Replenishment.  Loan repayments by the
participating banks would take two forms:
for the small estates   -    annual repayments of capital over 5 years on
the basis of the quarterly reimbursement
requests (i.e. repayments are not related to
the repayment schedule by the borrowers);
for the large estates   -    repayment matched to the schedule of
and agroprocessing          repayments of each borrower.
subprojects
In all cases the participating banks, having assumed the credit risk, would
be required to repay the RBM on schedule irrespective of the borrowers'
performance.
4.26          Government would consider placing capital repayments to RBM
into a MK special account as a revolving fund for medium-term loans to the
agriculture sector by the participating banks. The uses of these funds and
the conditions for drawdown would be determined by the RBM in conjunction
with the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture and the participating banks.



- 37 -
4.27          Pilot Marketing Scheme for Rural Traders.  SEDOM would be
provided funds through the RBM, for support of the emerging agricultural
commodity trading sector. SEDOM's objective would be to support rural
traders, including women traders, and to seek projects that woi'ld increase
capital and marketing infrastructure investments in the rural areas. To
ensure adequate management of this pilot credit, assurances were obtained
at negotiations that SEDOM would appoint by March 31, 1989 a Project
Manager from among their senior staff, who would take day to day
responsibility for the administration and promotion of this pilot. SEDOM
would prepare a program for the promotion of subprojects under this
program, together with the criteria for the target groups to which this
promotion would be directed. This program would be submitted for approval
to the Planning Division of MOA, MTIT (para 4.01) and IDA. Such approval
is a condition of disbursement of the pilot credit.
4.28          SEDOM would support the following activities:
with short term credit lines
-    working capital for seasonal commodity trading;
-    working capital for rural multi-product trading based on
purchase of commodities in the rural areas, and supply
of consumer goods to the rural areas; and
-    working capital for the purchase of chemicals and
fumigants, bags etc. for storage quality maintenance.
with medium-term credit
-    purchase of small processing mills, drying, cleaning and
grading equipment, weighing scales, moisture meters, and
related civil works;
-    construction or rehabilitation of rural commodity
storage facilities owned or rented to commodity traders;
and
-    purchase of small trucks, suitable for rural road
conditions.
All seasonal loans would have a term to the borrower of between 3 and 12
months.  Medium-term loans would have terms of between 3 and 5 years.
4.29          SEDOM would prepare an annual lending program, together with
the criteria for selection of borrowers, to be agreed with the Planning
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and MTIT, before the commencement
of each calender year's lending activities. The assessment of SEDOM's
performance under these annual plans would be the function of the Marketing
Committee. SEDOM would undertake to submit quarterly reports to this
committee, that would include:
-    summary profiles of lending
-    summary profiles of borrowers



- 38 -
_    geographic analysis of borrowers
-    loan portfolio and collection performance
-    promotion program implementation report.
4.30          On-lending rates for IDA funds to SEDOM from the Government
would be set not less than 3.OZ, which is consistent with the cost of funds
SEDOM receives from other sources and reflects the nature and cost of the
technical assistance and training activities provided to its clients.
SEDOM'S lending rate to its borrowers reflect market rates and are
currently in the range of 16 to 18%. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that interest rates to the final borrowers would be reviewed
annually by SEDOM, in conjunction with RBM, and set in accordance with
market rates. As with the other credit lines in the proposed Project, the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and SEDOM would bear the
credit risk for IDA resources on-lent under the pilot.
4.31          All loans to SEDOM would have to be repaid in full to RBM on
the following schedules:
short-term credit -           in full with accumulated interest in the 13th
month;
medium-term credit -           equal annual payments of principal and
interest over five years.
For seasonal credit, the borrower would be required to pay interest on a
fortnightly basis. No "automatic roll-over" by the borrower would be
permitted. For medium-term credit, principal and interest would be payable
on a monthly basis, on an equal payment basis for the duration of the loan.
4.32          Loan Appraisal.  SEDOM's loan assessment capabilities were
found to be adequate during appraisal. Nevertheless, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that SEDOM would submit to IDA for examination a
sample of loan assessments. On the basis of IDA's examination of this
documentation it may require changes ir. SEDOM's loan assessment procedures.
For replenishment claims to RBM, SEDOM would submit quarterly summaries of
each project from which disbursement has been completed.
4.33          For seasonal credit to fund trading activities, the
procedures to be adopted by SEDOM to ensure that loan proceeds are utilized
as intended should be developed in conjunction with their auditors, and
this set of loan monitoring procedures should be submitted to IDA for
review and approval as a condition of disbursements under the pilot credit
line. Similarly, examples of the loan summary sheets and reimbursement
claim forms, that meet the auditors approval should be submitted by this
date.
4.34          All repayments by SEDOM to the RBM would be placed into a
separate revolving fund for further lending for marketing. Future use of
the revolving fund would be at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance
under terms and conditions to be agreed between it, the MOA, MTIT, RBM and
SEDOM.



- 39 -
B. Accounts and Audit
Accounts and Audits
4.35          MOA, MBS, MLG, RBM, the participating banks and SEDOM would
maintain separate accounts for the Project in accordance with sound
accounting principles and would ensure that these accounts would be audited
by qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited annual
accounts together with auditor's comments for each participating
institution would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year. Auditors would be requested to provide in their audits
confirmation that the statements of expenditures submitted by the concerned
project agency are properly prepared and that credit funds claimed have
actually been spent and the goods and services procured are used for the
purposes intended under the Project. MOA and RBM which would be
responsible for operating the special accounts to be established for the
project (para 3.26), would arrange for annual audits of the special
accounts in accordance with IDA guidelines. Assurances to these effects
were obtained at negotiations.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.36          The separate accounts to be maintained by CBM, NBM and
INDEBANK for the estate and agro-industries credit lines (para. 4.35) would
also form the basis of quarterly reports which would be submitted to the
Estate and Agro-Industries Committee and IDA. These reports would include
details of the subloans approved and committed, and a summary analysis of
the implementation and performance of subprojects financed credit lines.
For the estate credit lines, these reports would be used in monitoring
compliance with the requirements for lending to small estates (para. 4.14).
SEDOM4 would also prepare quarterly reports on the pilot credit for
submission to the Marketing Committee and IDA. The other implementing
agency, i.e., MOA, MLOG, and MBS, would also monitor the progress of the
part of Project for which they are responsible. Each of these entities
would report semi-annually to the Marketing Committee and IDA, providing
data on Project activities, on completion of physical and institutional
targets, and on circumstances or problems that are critical to the
effective implementation of the Project. Assurances on these points were
obtained during negotiations.
4.37          Evaluation would be carried out by the Planning Division and
specifically by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of MOA, at the end of
Year 3 of the Project implementation and after completion of the Project.
The three year evaluation report would form the basis of mid-term Project
implementation review. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOA
would prepare an evaluation report by June 30, 1992, which would be
submitted to IDA for comment and review. Changes in Project activities
that have been agreed with IDA as a result of the evaluation would be
implemented promptly. MSU would prepare a Project Completion Report within
six months after completion of the Project. An assurance to this effect
was obtained at negotiations.



- 40 -
D. Environmental Safeguards
4.38     The production of the estate crops which would be financed under the Project
(tobacco, coffee, tea, macademia, etc.) involves the application of agro-chemicals with
potentially adverse environmental and health risks if handled improperly. Similarly,
subprojects financing crop marketing and processing activities possibly could be the
source of polluting agents resulting either from fumigation, discharge of effluents, dust
or smoke. To limit the risk of environmental damage, subprojects financed under the
Project would incorporate appropriate environmental safeguards. In the preparation and
appraisal of large estate and agro-industrial subprojects, the technical evaluation would
include analysis of the environmental impact of the su1-project and the steps to be taken
to control polluting agents in accordance with IDA guidelines which would be provided to
the participating banks. In addition, the participating banks during the course of their
normal supervision would ensure that the subprojects operate according to environmentally
sound practices. For the pilot credit line for rural traders, potential borrowers would
be required to take training to be financed under the Project in the storage and handling
of agricultural commodities, including the use of pesticides and fumigants (para 3.14,
4.05). Potential borrowers would also need to demonstrate that they have appropriate
facilities for pesticides storage and disposal.
4.39     Another environmental concern is the risk that the Project may finance the
expansion of estate cultivation into protected lands or into areas currently occupied by
smallholders. However, the requirement that prospective estate borrowers show clear
evidence of title to the land they intend to utilize in a proposed subproject provides
sufficient safeguard against such encroachment. The procedures utilized to obtain
Government leases of estate land are designed to ensure that the lands in question are
designated for agricultural use and are not currently occupied by smallholders under
customary tenure arrangements.
E. Role of Women
4.40     Women in Malawi, who constitute the majority of agricultural producers, are also
heavily involved as petty traders in the marketing of grains (maize, rice, sorghum,
millet), groundnuts, beans and fruits in both the urban and rural markets. Despite this,
they generally have less access in their own right than men to credit, extension and
marketing services, primarily due to traditional cultural patterns. The proposed project
complements our activities under the ongoing Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project which
through a group pilot lending scheme provides credit to women farmers and the Agricultural
Services Initiative which has a special focus on women. The Project would seek to improve
women's productivity and economic capabilities through the pilot scheme implemented by
SEDOM which would channel credit to rural traders, the majority of whom are women (para
3.09). The credit would be used to buy bags for crop storage and transport, stalls,
scales and other items needed for the marketing of produce. In addition, the Project
would provide training to these traders in marketing skills such as handling and storage
of crops, bookkeeping, marketing management and credit operations (para 3.14). To meet
the particular needs of women who cannot be away from their families for extended periods,
much of the training would be in carried out in short segments.
F. Status of Project Implementation
4.41     IDA has approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to ensure timely start-up
of Project activity. The facility will also enable the Government to begin monitoring
crop marketing activity for the upcoming marketing season. The PPF includes funding for
crop specific marketing studies that would, among other things, identify a pipeline of
potential marketing subprojects. Terms of reference for these studies have been
finalized, consultants have been selected, and field work is currently getting underway.
The PPF is also financing pilot training exercises for private traders and priority
resources for improved data collection for production an pricing statistics. In addition,
it is funding a study that seeks to establish an accounting system that differentiates the
costs of ADMARC's commercial and developmental activities. Finally, the PPF is financing
an examination of options for the distribution of fertilizer and other farm inputs.



- 41 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
5.01          The Project would assist in the development of the
agriculture in Malawi through the provision of credit, training, and
technical assistance which would strengthen the agricultural marketing
system and expand the production base in the estate subsector. The Project
would contribute to increased agricultural production, employment and
incomc generation through efficiency gains in agricultural marketing and
increased productivity in estate agriculture.
5.02          Benefits of the Project would accrue to the borrowers of term
credit and through them to the economy as a whole. For the marketing
credit, the benefits to improved processing, transport, and storage would
be in the form of improved quality and lower marketing margins which would
be passed on to both producers and consumers. The pilot scheme for rural
traders would assist in developing a multi-channel marketing system for
smallholder agriculture which would give producers greater choice and
flexibility in marketing their output. It would also help ADMARC in
rationalizing its network of rural markets through financing private agents
who would operate markets on ADMARC's behalf.
5.03          The credit provided for estate development would expand and
diversify estate production. The credit is designed to benefit the small
Malawian-owned estates which currently have limited access to term
financing. The benefits to the borrowers would come in the form of higher
income through increased yields, improved quality, and better utilization
of land resources in the subsector. Additional benefits to the economy
would result from increased employment on the estates and higher export
revenues.
5.04          Tbase benefits cannot be quantified because they are the
aggregate of benefits of subprojects which are only now being identified.
Furthermore, benefits from investments in improved marketing infrastructure
are difficuit to measure. However, the experience with lending to larger
estates under the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project provide some
guidance on the level of returns to be expected from the estate credit
lines. Preparation documents for the subloans under this Project show
financial rates of return ranging from 23Z for mechanized tobacco
cultivation to over 402 for irrigated coffee production. These rates are
only moderately sensitive to changes in output prices and costs. Similar
rates are anticipated for the prcposed large estate lending and the
stringent loan appraisal requirements and supervision procedures would help
to ensure that the FRRs are at acceptable minimum levels. Moreover, the
requirement that all subloans above US$150.000, must have a minimum
financial rate of return of 12Z will help ensure that the proposed
investment are yielding satisfactory returns.
5.05          For the small e3tates, financial rates of return based on the
five models have been calculated (Annex 3, Appendix 2). They range from
about 18Z for small scale expansion of flue-cured tobacco to over 50Z for
the small-scale burley model. Finally, rates of return for Agro-Industries



- 42 -
subprojects are expected to be -n the range of 20 to 30Z based on
calculations for a cotton ginnery and tea processing plant financed under
the Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project. For all subprojects, the
expected economic rates of return are at about the same level or higher
than the FRR due to the limited number of subsidies and the distortions
facing the estates sector and agro-processors.
5.06          The impact on employment and rural incomes of the proposed
lending program are expected to be substantial. For example, full and part-
time employment generated or saved from the 12 subprojects under the
Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, are estimated at about 7,500
with the value of total incremental production at about MK13 million a
year. Similar orders of magnitude are expected for lending to large estate
under the proposed Project. Employment generation estimated from the
indicative small estate lending program is estimated in the range of 3,500
to 5,000 either as tenants or wage laborers. Value of expanded production
from the tobacco and diversified cropping subprojects is expected to be in
the range of  MK10 to 12 million annually.
5.07          Benefits to the participating banks would accrue through
expanded term lending to viable marketing and estate enterprises which
would improve their asset structure and profitability. The technical
assistance to be provided by the Project would also help develop the
institutional capacity to promote private marketing enterprises. This
enhanced institutional capacity for new lending will create new investment
and employment opportunities fer Malawi citizens.
5.08          The institutional strengthening component will provide
benefits in terms of improved data collection and analytical capabilities
in the Government. The quality control improvement should ensure that the
quality of Malawian exports is maintained, thereby helping to enhance
ADMARC's production in position markets. Finally, the market
infrastructure component will provide improved assembly, handling, and
storage facilities in rural markets that would yield benefits in terms of
lower marketing costs.
B. Proiect Risks
5.09          The main risk associated with the pilot marketing program and
agro-industries lending is the ability of the participating banks to
promote, identify, and prepare viable subprojects. This risk has been
covered in two ways. First, the rural trade credit line has been designed
as a pilot exercise to test subprojects aimed at rural assemblers, traders,
and transporters. SEDOM has built considerable experience in lending to
such small scale rural enterprises and MSU will play an active role in
helping to shape SEDOM's efforts to promote and implement the pilot
program. Second, for the agro-industries subprojects, the work of the MSU
is expected to identify marketing bottlenecks and potential subprojects to
address these bottlenecks. ADMARC'S divestment of some of its agro-
processing activities is also expected to generate demand for financing to
rehabilitate and expand existing operations once they have changed
ownership.
5.10          Another risk associated with the marketing aspect of the
Project is the effectiveness of the Government's efforts to encourage
private trade. The Government has demonstrated a firm resolve to implement



- 43 -
its market liberalization program in face of the food shortages that have
occurred in the last year. However, the Government's concern about the
impact of the liberalization has caused it to place a great deal of
emphasis on market regulations and control. There is a risk that this
emphasis on regulations will unduly restrict the private trade and limit
the impact of the liberalization measures. The Project would provide
technical assistance to ensure that the Government's regulatory function is
administered in a way that is conducive to the development of private trade
channels. Moreover, the Project provides for IDA review of any proposed
changes in market regulations. Finally, marketing and pricing are a major
element of IDA's policy dialogue with the Government and future policy
based operations will focus on maintaining favorable environment for
private trade in agricultural commodicies.
5.11          The main risk associated with estate development is that the
estate crops (especially tobacco) rre produced for the export market and a
substantial drop in the international prices of these crops could result in
liquidity problems for sub-borrowers and in defaults on loan repayments.
Howfever, according to a Bank forecast, prices of Malawi's major export
crops in constant US dollars are expected to remain relatively stable in
the medium-term. Also, the term credit to be provided estate farmers will
also help to make them more efficient, lower cost producers who will be
better able to withstand price fluctuations. Finally, participating
financial intermediaries are expected to review potential sub-borrowers to
screen out those who are not good credit risks.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECO1413NDATIONS
6.01          Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the following:
(a) the marketing advisor would be recruited in accordance
with Bank guid2lines by March 31, 1989 (para 3.11);
(b) terms of reference and a work program for the rural
financial specialist to assist in the implementation of
the pilot credit scheme would be submitted to IDA for
review and comment prior to March 31, 1989 (para. 3.11)-
(c) four of the economist posts currently vacant in the
Planning Division would be filled by March 31, 1989
(para 3.12);
(d) two special accounts would be established in financial
institutions acceptable to IDA to ensure that funds for
the proposed Project would be available when needed
(para 3.26);
(e) procedures satisfactory to IDA would be followed for
procurement of civil works, vehicles spare parts,
equipment and office supplies. Employment of technical
personnel would also be under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.24);
(f) MPS would submit its annual training programs to IDA for
review and comment by March 31 of each year (para 4.05);
(g) MBS would assume full responsibility of agricultural
eyport quality control by October 31, 1989 (para 4.06);



- 44 -
(h) MOA would undertake an analysis of the impact of its
market reform measures, including the effects of the
existing regulations requiring traders to operate form
designated markets. The results of this analysis would
be reviewed with IDA and agreed changes in the
regulations would be implemented by March 31, 1990,
(para. 4.08);
(i) Any subsequent proposals to change market regulations
would be reviewed and agreed with IDA prior to their
implementations (para. 4.08);
(j) at least 50Z of the credit proceeds earmarked for estate
lending would be on-lent to estates in the smallest
category (para 4.12);
(k) NBM, and CBM would not make subloans to a single small
estate in excess of US$150,000 on a cumulative basis.
For large estate borrowers, INDEBANK, NBH, and CBM would
not lend IDA resources in an amount exceeding US$500,000
for irrigated subprojects. For non-irrigated estate
subprojects the upper limit would be US$250,000 (para
4.15);
(1) RBM would annually review and revise, as appropriate,
its on-lending rates to the participating banks to
reflect changes in the agricultural lending rates (para
4.20);
(m) the participating banks would annually review and revise
as appropriate, their lending rates to the final
borrower to ensure that they are: (i) consistent with
the overall interest rate structure; and (ii) adequate
to achieve project objectives (para 4.19);
(n) each participating bank would submit samples of their
lending documentation for each category of subproject to
IDA for review and approval (para 4.22);
(o) financial rates of return (FRR) would be calculated for
subprojects above US$100,000 and no project would be
financed that has an FRR of less than 12? (para 4.22);
(p) SEDOM would appoint a project manager to administer
pilot credit for rural traders by March 31, 1989.
(para 4.27);
(q) SEDOM, in conjunction with RBM, would annually review
and revise as appropriate the lending rates to the final
borrower to insure that they are consistent with overall
interest rate status (para 4.30);



- 45 -
(r) SEDOM would submit to IDA for examination samples of its
loan assessment for subprojects it intends to finance
under the pilot program (para 4.32);
(s) audits would be conducted annually for each
participating institution in the project and the audited
accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would be
sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year. The auditor's comments would include
confirmation that statement of expenses are properly
prepared and that credit funds claimed have been used
for the purpose stated under the Project (para 4.35);
(t) each project implementing agency would monitor progress
in the part of the project for which they are
responsible and would submit progress reports to the
relevant coordinating committee and IDA (para. 4.36);
and
(u) by January 30, 1992, the Planning Division of MOA would
undertake a mid-term evaluation of the Project and
changes in Project activities agreed with IDA as a
result of the mid-term evaluation would be implemented
promptly. It would also prepare a Project Completion
Report within six months after completion of the Project
(para 4.37).
6.02          Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) The Government would establish the two project
management and coordination committees as described in
para 4.01.
6.03          Conditions of disbursement are:
(a) The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement with each
participating financial institution would be condition
of disbursement to that financial institution (para
4.11);
(b) Approval of program of promotion for the pilot credit
line for rural traders and criteria for selecting the
target group by Planning Division of MOA, MTIT, and IDA
would be a condition of disbursement of the pilot credit
to SEDOM (para 4.27); and



- 46 -
(c) Approval by IDA of loan monitoring procedures to be
developed by SEDOM in conjunction with its auditors
including loan summary sheets and recruitment claim
forms (para 4.33); and
6.04          Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$18.3 million on standard terms to
the Government of Malawi.



-47-                         ANNEX I
Chart 1
i'~~ ,iI  iiW 
Ciei
0          ~     ~~~~~~ii



MALAUI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Orgonizational Chart and Functions of
the Marketing and Pricing Section (MPS), and Planning DMsJon, MOA
PRINCIPAL ECONOMISr
MARKEING SERIMCES UNIT (MSU)                                                  MARfl    & PRICE POIJCY UNIT (MPPU)
P..                                  P.O.                                   P0L_                                 P0..
Eredit. plvate trodws                 arket Intelligence                   MARRENG POLW:                         PRICE POLCY.
Market infrstructuue, plans         -Lbson wtth Food SecurIty
and pro4ecs. public ma*kets etc.     (Prices as Indictors d sh~otge)       ADRC                                  RevIew and reCo   ndation of
-Stage: Capocity requirements         Marketing extension and tradning      oSfficIIc                                aln mve  dRck prices for poducts and Iputs
Stondards.  regulations      a( e ond standards weghts and          Marketing aspects of natnd aonitodng of effecthess of officil
Stocks daoto                  nesres (wth MBS)                      Food Sscf (othm dat                   prIces (morket prkes horn Morlketing
Bo:nded warehouses                                                  an scks and ps)                       ServIces Unit)
Monitoring d prvote taders                                                           aUCH"Pce onoalysis
4Eukrtlo  (Phncfo hadnk, p2oce57aJ)
World Boank42579>2  



-49-                                                                 6s'NEX 2
Page 1 of 6
Tal  . 1UIIIUTIOAO  8T993211U1   - M6C1N0 I MMT NU  MT2
ht.ild Cost Table
0lxw06 '0009
kws  Costs                                 Totals IMlodins WtMncxin
unit1 -
lUnt Cost  1909    990   991  IM992     1993294  I99  Total   1IM        199   1991  IM9  199  1994  I99  Total
2. 1NVt5T2OT COSTS
A. tEICALCM ASSISTAMU
MARtTIOG SPECIALIST                      KY    560   360.0  360.0 360.0      -                 -1:00.0   365.4  316.4 30.6                            11131.3
86062 P1222C  S?ECIM.IST                 my           250.0  250.0     .         .          .     500.0   240.0  250.0         --                       500.0
Sub-Tatol TECHNIICAL ASSISTNIC                           610.0  620,0 360.0     -                  1,500.0   625.4  6.26.4 389.6     -                 -1,631.3
V. E0KLES I EIFIIMENT
414 15                                   ND    so   100.0                 -          100.0     -20010   202.5          -     -             121.7    -223.2
Suo-Ye'al ,ENICLES I EWUIPMEM                            100.0      -     -           -100.0         200.0   202.5        -                   121.)        223.2
7--:CE ilHFL1ES I E0U1?MaT
----------.--.0-                                         --                   ---.-2.0-                       --                   -      -2-
:- .CE    LiF;U                                    23,0   25.0      -     -       -    25.0   75.0    25.4   26.1        -     -           -31.6   03.2
`4-   ,    1iCE EiIPLIES I EMUIPIOT                  2.10    23.0    --     -2          .0      77.0    27.4   26.1    -                   -31.6   25.2
,E. MISAS TR6IMIIOG/TOURS
iW.;tT!S IPFICERS 2YRS                No    s0o                  50.0  50.0                    100.0            -  -54.1  56.3                       1    10,4
JD: T45                    No~9    is           36.0     -36.0       -3o.0      -100.0           - 37.6        -40.5      -43.8       -   22.0
w-o0tal OErSeasm  TRAININS10IRWS                         - 36.0  50.0  26.0        -36.0          208.0             37.6  54.1  96.8    .43.0           232.3
..L TRAlININ
MD P61 STAFF                          No   0.7       3.5    3.5  3.5  3,5  3.5  3.5  3.5   24.5           3.6    3.7  3,8   3.9  4.1  4.3  0.4   27.7
F' E1. STAFF                          NO   0,4    12.0   12.8  12,0  12.0 12.9  12.8  12.0   09.6    13.0   13.4  13.9  24.4  15.0  15,6  16.2  101.4
'RAMES                                              15,0   13.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  105.0    15.2   15.7  16.2  16,9  17.6  10.3  19.0  212.0
'WHIN10  MTERIIdL                                    5.0    5.0  5.0  5.0  5.   5,0  5.0   35,0           5.1    5.2  5.4  5.6  5.9  6.1  6.3   39.6
TUINEICS                                            30.0   30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  210.0    30.5   31.4  32.5  33.8  35.1  36.5  38.0  2W.6
560-Total 2.0CM  76120100                             66.3   66.3 66.3  66.3  66.3 66.3  66.3  464.1    67.3   69.3  71.7  74.6  77.6  00.7  83.9  525.2
S,*Tot.1 161010                                          66.3  100.3 116.3 152.3 "J. 102.3 66.1  672.1    67.3  106.9 125.9 171.4  77.6 124.5  03.9  757.5
E. ESTATE OMSIE
DATA C2.eETIooI I PMtTB2S                             400.0  200.0-          -600.0   406.0  209.1.--                                   -     -     -615.1
Sub-Total ESTAfT SIW                                     4000.0  2600,0600.0   406.0  209.1-615.1
F, STIMIES
I. 01060P2012 OF   900.ECT PIPIIE2.                  500.0--500.0   507.5--507.5
2. 81E1CM I 9E9ISIlOi OF 8EaU.TIONS                   125.0-225.0   126.9--126.9
3. DE21ELOPW  OF TRADERS TAG. PROGEOM                 125.0-125.0   126.9-                                                                              236.9
4. CW.CTION OF %PLT I D1210 5ATA                     312.5-31.2.5   317.2--317.2
S. IEOPI01T OF 0069 01C10NG. SYSTEM                   322.5-312.5   317.2                                                                                1.
i. FERTILIZEROI0SHIU1812fI   PT1IOIS                  200.0-100.0   102.3--101.5
Sub-Tatal STUDiES                                      1.475,01:75.0  14711,497.1
Total IN91ST212  COStS                                   2,678.3  937.3 476.3 252.3  66.3 202.3  91.3 4,604.1  2,724,7  960.5 515.4 171.4  77.6 246.2 115.6 4100.3
A. 5ALAR2E5 I MLWIAES
STATISTICAL. CLiNG                     2N3   3.5       7,0    7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0   49.0           7.1    7.3  7,6  7.9  8.2  8.5  0.9   55.5
$U6,1tal 996.111a 0L1.Md2C1                               7.0    7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0   49.0           7.2    7.3  7.6  7.9  8.2  0.5  0.9   55.5
8. Y01CLE 0 1 0
4X4 93                                 '0    22    24.0   24.0  24.0  24.0  24,0  24.0  24.0  168.0    24.4   25.1  26.0  27.0  29.2  29.2  30.4  290.2
5,ub-Totol CHICLE a I 9                                 24.0   24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0 24.0  24.0  160.0    24.0   25.1  26,0 27.0  28.1 29P.2  30.4  299.1
C. OFFICE hKIEfTS I0AMIN. El?.
51U991115                                             12.0   12.0  12.0  12.0  22.0  12.0  12.0   04.0    12.2   12.5  13.0  13.5  24.0  14.6  I5.2   95.1
S~.bTot.l OFFICE SKIOES I AMIN2. El?.                    12.,0   22.0  12.0  12.0  22.0  12.0  12.0   84.0    12.2   12.5  13.0  23.5  14.0  14.6  25.2   95.2
REALM FOR EXPATRIATES                   No0   15    15.0   15.0  25.0  13.0  25.0    -    .   75.0    15.2   15.7  26.2  26.9  17.6          -    -   82.6
WFICE SPA  RENT                         NO3   20    20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  140.0    20.3   20.9  21.6  22.5  23.4  24.3  25.3  250.4
Sub-Total 011019N5 0 I 9                                33.0   35.0  35.0  35.0  33.0  20.0 20.0  215.0    35.5   36.6  37.9  39.4  41.0  24.3  25.3  200.0
total RCEJ.MET CESTS                                        78.0   78.0  78.0  70.0  70.0  63.0  63.0  526,0    79.2   81.5  04.4 87.8  91.3  76.7  79.0  580.0
Total                                                     2,75.3 1 01-5.3543  230.3 14-4.3 2MM.15-4.3 5:220.2  2:7?3.,9 t1:050,  509.2B '259.22=68.9 322.9 19-5.3 5:390.



- 50 -
MAI                                                  ANNEX 2
AGRICIUAIL IAKTIN  AND ESTATE DEYLEPWfN  M9ECT                              Page  2  of  6
Table 2. INSTITUTIOWL STRENIIN6  - BUEAU OF STANDARBs
Detailed Cost Table
(KIaACM '000)
past Costs                        Totals Including Continomies
Unit Cost 1M   199  191 1992 1993 1994 1995 Total  1999  199O 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 Total
22s8  8223     3am C8 ms=s         _            a*=  =          8= 3 2_ :Zs= 2    2        2
I. IUSTWN  COSTS
A. TECNIC&L ASISTANC
LITY CUlTROL ERT (EXPORT)  11               10  90.0    -     -                      90.0  91.4    -     -     -     -     -    -   91.4
Sub-Total TECIHICAL ASSISTNICE                      90.0                                90.0   91.4    -     -    -     -     -     -   91.4
3. VEHICLES I EWUIPENT
X4 iD                                NO     50  100.0    -    -     -     -    -     - 100.0  101.5    -     -     -    -     -    -   101.5
SMLING EGUIPENT                     SET     10  20.0    -     -     -     -     -    -  20.0  20.3    -     -     -     -    -     -    20.3
EALANCES                             NO      8   16.0    -     -     -    -     -     -  16.0   162    -     -     -    -     -     -    16*2
INCUDTORS                            NO     25  100.0    -    -     -    -     -     - 100.0  101.5    -     -     -    -     -    -   101.5
Sub-Totl INICtLES I EWUIPIENT                      236.0    -     -     -     -     -     - 236*0 239.5    -     -     -    -     -     -   239,5
C. TRAINING
1. UERSEAS STUDY TOMlS
INDUSTRtAL OUM.ITY CONTROL        NO     18   36.0    -     -     -      -     -    -  36.0   36.5    -     -     -     -     -   -    36.5
INSPECTION I FIELD SAMPLING       NO     18   36.0    -     -       -     -     -    -  36.0   36.5    -     -     -     -     -     -    36.5
MUL   TRAINING MATERIAL                       10.0    -     -       -     -     -    -  10.0  10.2    -     -     -     -     -     -    10,2
Sub-Total UOERSEAS STUDY TOURS                   82.0    -    -        -     -     -    - 2.0  83.2    -    -     -     -     -     -   83.2
Sub-Total TRAINING                                  92.0    -        -     -     -     -    - 82,0   83.2    -     -     -     -     -     -    8392
Total INUESTMENT COSTS                                408,0  -408.0  414.1                                                             414.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES I ALLOWANCES
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER                  NO     15   15.0 15.0 15.0 15*0 15.0 15.0 15.0 105.0   15.2 15.7 16*2 16.9 17.6 18*3 19.0   118,8
TECHNICAL OFFICERS                  NO      8   16.0 16.0 16,0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 112.0  16.2 16.7 17.3 18.0 18.7 19.5 20.3  126.7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS                NO      5   10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0  70.0   10.2 10.5 10.8 11.3 11.7 12.2 12.7    79*2
Sub-Total SALARIES I AU.GNCES                      41,0 41.0 41.0 41.0 41.0 41,0 41.0 287.0  41.6 42.9 44,4 46.1 48.0 49,9 51,9   324.8
a. VUENILE 0 a N
X4 WD                                      12   24,0 24.0 24.0 24.0 14,0 24.0 24.0 168.0   24.4 25.1 26.0 27.0 20.1 29.2 30.4   190.1
Sub-Total UEILE 0 1 N                              24,0 24.0 24.0 24.0 24*0 24.0 24.0 168.0  24.4 25.1 26*0 27.0 28.1 29.2 30.4   190.1
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES I ADIIN. EXP,
SUPPLIUES                                       10,0 10.0 10,0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0  70.0  10.2 10.5 10*8 11.3 11.7 12.2 12.7    79.2
Sub-Total OFFICE SUPPLIES I ADMIN. EXP.            10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0  70.0  10,2 10.5 10.8 11.3 11.7 12.2 12.7   7902
Total RECURENT COSTS                                   75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 ;25.0  76.1 78.4 81.2 84.4 87.8 91*3 94.9   594*1
Z=== ==== ==__ --= =c======= == =sss=  YY= =am ssY s :-Y s
Total                                                  483.0 i5.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 933.0  490.2 78.4 81.2 84.4 87.8 91.3 94.9 1,008.2
_=CS =C:  =CS 2     ==_          .  --C 2 2=2= =222222222=2 28822=S=2= 2=S S Y S:
September 13. 1988 08:43



- Si -
1NJAI'                                                ANNEX  2
AERCILTIRA  NAKEING AND ESTATE WRPf  RJC                                      Page  3  of  6
Table 3. Wih(EIU IWATUTI
k.tailed Cost Table
CKWACM '000)
one Costs                              totals Ineludird Continuiuuiu
unit        --       -- -         --       --       -
Uinit Cost  199k 1990  i99    9219319  19              .      1-969  1990  1991  199   199  199  199  Total
==l  :,a   zam  ma,* ==aa  8=gg Sams Sam ,.          ==m= .,.,,     m~amu   ama   s 
it IIWESTIEN COSTS
A. CIVIL MOIS
1. KAROO9 ADD
CNIUED            No            9.5  28.5  28.5  29.5    -    -    -    95.0   11.1  34.3  35.5  36.9    -    -    -   117.7
IFUXDO            No           9.1  27.3  27.3  27.3    -    -    -    91.0   10.6  32.8  34.0  35.3    -    -    -   112.7
Sub-Total KARONG  ADD             18.6  55.9  55.8  55.9    -    -    -   196.0   21.7  67.1  69.   72.2    -    -    -   230.5
2. NZUZU ADD
DHINTIEO          No            9.7  29.1  29.1  29,1    -    -    -    97,0   11.3  35.0  36.2  3*7.    -    -    -   120.2
NTANGATWNGA       No            8.5  25.5  25.5  25.5    -    -    -        #0    9.9  30.7  31.7  33.0     - -    -      105.3
Sub-Total OMUZ  ADD               18.2  54.6  54.6  54.6    -    -    -   192.0   21.2  65.6  67,9  70.7    -    -    -   225.5
3. KAMWG  ADD
NTCNISI           NO            8.7  26.1  26.1  26.1    -    -    -    97,0   10.2  31.4  32.5  33.8    -    -    -   107.9
NWELA             No            9.6  28.8  29,8  298      -    -         96.0   11.2  34.6  35.9  37.3    -    -    -   118.9
Sub-Total KASUN6  ADD             18.3  54.9  54.9  54.9    -    -    - 18,0   21.4  66.0  61.3  ?Lot      -    -            226.7
4. L:LNGVE ODD
CaINDITA          No            9.6  289.8  28.8  29.8    -    -    -    96.0   11.2  34.6  35.8  37.3    -    -    - 1189.
L.IZIA.U         NfO            9.9  29.4  29.4  29.4    -    -    -    98.0   11.4  35.3  36.6  38.0      -    -         121.4
Sub-Total LILON6U  ADD            19.4  58.2  58.2  58.2    -          - 19460   22.6  70.0  72.4  75.3    -    -        - 240.4
5. SAINA ADD
NKW3TAKOTA        No            9,8  29.4  29,4  29.4    -    -    -    98.0   11.4  35.3  36.6  38.0    -    -    -   121.4
CI4IPOKA          No            9.4  28.2  28,2  29.2    -    -    -    94.0   11.0  33.9  35.1  36.5    -    -    -   116.5
Sub-Total SALIM  ADD              19.2  57.6  57.6  57.6    -    -    -   192.0   22.4  69.3  71.7  74.5      -    -    -   237.9
a. LLVOND ADD
NANVER            No            9.9  29.7  29.7  29.7    -    -    -    99.0   11.6  35.7  37.0  38.4    -    -    -   122.7
RAYAKA            No            9.9  29.7  2:9.7  29.7    -    -    -    99.0   11.6  35.7  37.0  38.4    -    -    -   122.7
Sub-Total LIVONDE ADD             19.8  59.4  59.4  59.4    -    -    -   198.0   23,1  71.4  73.9  76,9    -    -    -   245.3
7. S&JiTYRE ADD
LUNZU             No            7.7  23.1  23.1  23.1    -    -    -    77.0    9,0  27.8  28.7  299-?           -         95.4
KKAD              NO           10.0  30.0  30.0  30.0     -    - -      100.0   11.7  36.1  37.3  39.8    -    -    -   123.9
Sub-Total BLANTYRE ADD            17.7  53.1  373.1  53.1         - -      177.0   20.7  63.9  66.1  68.7    -    -    -  219.3
8. NGAEU ADD
NGABaJ            NO            7.2 211.6  21.6  21.6     -    -         72.0    8.4  26.0  26,9  28.0    -    -    -    89.2
NSANJE            No            8.9  26.7  26.7  26.7    -    -    -    89.0   10,4  32.1  33.2  34.6    -    -    -   110.3
Sub-Total NGABU ADD               16.1  48.3  48.3  48.3    -    -    -   161.0   18.8  58. 1  60.1  62.5    -      -    - 199.5
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS               147.3 441.9 441.9 441.9    -    -    - 1,473.0  171.9 531.3 549.9 571.9    -    -    - 1,825.0
Totai !NVESTNENT COSTS                 147.3 441.9 441.9 441.9    -    -    - 1,473.0  171.9 531.3 549.9 571.9    -    -    - 1,825.
Total                        ~~~~~~~~147.3 441.9 441.9 441.9 -    -   1.473.0  171.9 531.3 549.9 571.9    -    -    - 1,825.0
----~~~~~~~~--------- -       -------------     --- --- - --3:,;                ::a,,::,,:.a.  :. aa   2as



A59ICULTURAL 3RlKETING AND ESTATE 1EIELMOPENT PROJECT
Table 4. MARKETIN6 MAD ESTATE CREDIT
Detailed Cost Table
(KMA    '000?
Bsu  Costs                                         Totals Includira Contingencies
Llnit 
Unit  Cost  1959   10W  1991   12   1993   1994   IM95   Total    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   m                 1995   Totl
==,= ===, ,== =: =====- :==s==: ==-= ===,- ==u ====                                                     22 == ==ss
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ESTATE DELELOPMENT
LARGE ESTATES           VALUE       3,000.0 34000.0 3,500.0 3S500.0 3,600.0 3,200.0 3,200.0 23,000.0  3000.0 3,000.0 3P50000 3,500.0 3,600.0 3,200.0 3,200.0 23,000.0
SMALL ESTATES           VALUE       2,500.0 3.000.0 3,500500.,500.0 3,600.0 39600.0 3W300,0 23,000.0 2,500.0 3,000.0 3,500.0 3,500.0 3,600.0 3,600.0 3M300.0 23.O00.0
Sub-Total ESTATE DEVELOPMENT           5,500.0 6P000.0 7,000.0 7w000.0 7,200.0 6,800.0 6.500,0 46,000.0 5,500.0 6,000.0 7,000.0 74000.0 7,200.0 69800.0 6,500.0 46,000.0
B. MARKETING DEVELOPMENT
AGROINDUSTRIES            Y         2,000.0 2.000.0 2.000.0 0* 500.0 1500.0 1,500.0 1,O50.0 11,50.0  2,000.0 2,000.0 2,000.0 1,500,0 1,500.0 1,500.0 1,050.0 11,550.0
Sub-Total MARKETING DEVELOPMENT        2.000.0 2,000.0 2,000.0 15000 1,500  1,00.0 1,050.0 11550.0 2,000.0 2,000.0 2,000.0 1,500*0 1,500.0 1,50s. 1,050.0 1I1550.0
C. PILOT HARKETING CREDIT
_-   -     -  -- _ -_   -__
SMALL SCALE TRADERS       V           200.0  250.0  260.0  2800.  300.0  355.0  355.0 2,000.0   200.0  250,0  260.0  280.0  300.0  355.0  355.0 2,000.0
INTERMEDIATE TRADERS     Y            300.0  350,0  400.0  450.0  450.0  525.0  525.0 3,000.0   300.0  350.0  400.0  450.0  450.0  525.0  525.0 3,000.0
Sub-Total PILOT  WIN6 CREDIT            500.0  600.0  660,0  730.0  750.0  8B0.0  880,0 5000.    500.0  600.0  660.0  730.0  750*0  890.0  860.0 5,000.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   8,000.0 8,600,0 9,660.0 9,230,0 9,450.0 9,180.0 8,430,0 62,550.0 8,000.0 9,600.0 9,660.0 9,230.0 9,450*0 9,180.0 8,430.0 62,550.0
-       -  =s==-- ====  s====  =c ==== -s= -x-- :==:-c2  --ss- -s----  .2    =32= _                        =  -     --
Total                                    89000.0 9P600.0 9P660.0 9,230.0 9.450.0 9.1BO.0 9,430.0 62,550.0 89000.0 9,600.0 9,660.0 9,230.0 9o450#0 9,190.0 8,430.0 62,550.0
w===c= ===:=== ======= =~~~xz_z=. =z=== =====- - =c:==  =:= ===  ==ss-=
September 13. 1988 08:43
coz
fD .
0



NALAVI
A6RICtLTIRAL IA RETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMT PROJECT
Project Coatonts bh Tear
Totals 1ncludins Continrncies                                    Totals Includirkg Cntin'-pies
tKVACDA  000)                                                      (US$ '000)
198     199      1991    1992   1993   1994    195   Total    IM         19    199"   19M        13   194   19          Total
===:==-  ===s==e =zzzrs=  3,:. 23:-  :.....a         =====    == ==== = 'saZz -Z- e  Z e   = afl _    _   -   _
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - PRICING I ARETING UNIT  2793.9  1050. 1599.8   259.2  168.9  322.9  195.35390. 1 1,017.6  320.0  239.9  103.7   67.6  129.2   78.1  1w56.1
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - 8UREAU OF STANDARDS         490.2    76.4    81.2    84.4   87.6   91.3   94.9  1,008.2   196.1   31.4   32.5   33.9   35.1   36.5   3B.0   403.3
C. IAKETIN6 INFRASTRUCTURE                                   171.9   531.3   549.9   571.9        -       -      - 1,825.0    68.8  212.5  220.0  228.8           -      -       -   730.0
D. MARKETING I ESTATE CREDIT                              9.000.0  8,600.0  9,660.0  9,230.0 9,450.0 9,180.0 8430.0 62,550.0  3,200.0 3,440.0 3,964.0 3P692#0 3.780.0 3,672.0 3,372.0 251020.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        11,206.1 10,009.8 IO890.9 10,145.5 9,706.7 95494.2 89720.3 70,273.4  4,482.4 4,003,9 4,356.4 4,058.2 3,992.7 3W837.7 3.488.1 29r109.4
===:=:: =====3==   =====-==                                                                ==== -====== ====== --=   ===e= =====e= ee==e= o_     e_   o _
--  - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -    
September 13, 1988 08:43
OQ z
0
0'r



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
NALAiI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Disbursesent B Financier B3 Sesester
CUSS '000)
PARTICIPATING          GOVT. OF
IDA       BANKS    BORROWERS MkAWI   Total
Amount       Amount   Amount  Ahount Amount
Semester
1         1,651.3         205.0    400.0    34,9  2,291.2
2         1.651.3         205.0    400.0    34.9  2p291.2
3         1I358.9         220.0    430.0    43.0  2,052.0
4         1Y358.9         220.0    430.0    43.0  24052.0
5         lP400.6         250.0    483.0    44.5  2,178.2
6         i1400,6         250.0    483.0    44.5  2178.2
7         1.281.3         240.0    461.5    46.3  2,029.1
8         1.281,3         240,0    461.5    46.3  2.029#1
9         1,186.5         246.0    472.5    36.3  1941.3
10         1,186.5         246.0    472.5    36.3  1,941.3
11         1,189.9         234.0    459.0    35.9  1,918,8
12         1.189.9         234.0    459.0    35.9 1919.8
13         1,069.2         216.0    421.5    37.3  1,744.1
14         1,069.2         216.0    421.5    37.3  1,744.1
Total            18,275.6       3,222.5  6,254.6   556.7 28.309,4
=====_== _= _========= ==z====ss =s====a =s:_=_=
_---   -  --------------------------__    ___-_



- 55 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative Proiect Lending Program
1.            The Project would fund medium-term credit for investments in
estate production and agro-processing subprojects. A brief description of
the type of subprojects expected to emerge is presented below and an
indicative lending program is presented in Appendix 1. Since actual
lending would be determined by market forces, the program in Appendix 1 is
not intended to represent targets or ceilings.
Large Estate Lending
2.            Investments in this category are expected to follow the
patterns established over the last eighteen months under the Industrial and
Agricultural Credit Project. It is anticipated that about 252 of the
investments will be for projects designed to diversify production into non-
tobacco crops such as coffee, irrigated wheat, cotton, macadamia nuts, etc.
Much of the first credit went for the expansion of coffee hectarage with
about 750 ha of coffee expected to be planted at full project development.
A similar level of expansion is anticipated for the proposed Project.
3.            It is expected that some of the demand for estate financing
will be for on-farm processing. Under the Industrial and Agricultural
Credit Project, two such projects, a tea processing plant rehabilitation
and a cotton ginnery, were financed and considerable scope exists for
similar investments under the proposed Project. For the indicative
program, four such projects are anticipated. Expansion of tobacco
production is also expected to continue, particularly for burley tobacco
for which a strong demand has emerged recently. Thus, about 35? of the
resources for large estate investment is expected to finance machinery,
equipment, and establishment costs for expanding burley production. The
remainder of the large estate program is expected to involve estate
rehabilitation projects. ADMARC is currently in the process of divesting
16 estates spread across the country. Many of these estates will require
extensive rehabilitation once they are divested and it is anticipated that
the new owners will utilize the proposed credit lines to finance investment
in new infrastructure, farm equipment, and crop establishment. In all the
indicative program anticipates some 21 subprojects and an average cost of
about MK1.0 million each.
Small Estate Lending
4.            The indicative program for small estate lending has been
derived from the models presented in Appendix 2. These models include two
burley tobacco subprojects, two flue-cured tobacco subprojects, and a
coffee diversification subproject. The models were derived on the basis of
the commercial banks' experience with seasonal lending to small estates and
extensive discussion with representatives of tobacco growers. It is



- 56 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
expected that the small scale burley model would be the most in demand
based on its profitability. This model includes 10 ha of incremental
tobacco production and the provision bore holes. For the indicative
program, it is estimated that about 180 of this and similar type projects
would be financed. The larger burley model, 45 ha of mechanized burley
production, is expected to yield about 40 subprojects. The two flue-cured
models are expected to account for less than 25Z of the total lending
program. The lower demand for flue-cured subprojects is based on its
higher production costs and difficulties in obtaining adequate fuel wood
for tobacco curing. The prospects for diversification out of tobacco for
small estate owners is limited by the lack of more profitable alternatives.
Nevertheless, it is anticipated that over the life of the Project that a
limited number of smaller estates will begin to experiment with other
crops. Five such subprojects have been included in the indicative program.
The balance of the indicative program for small estates involves subloans
for tractor rehabilitation. Overhaul kits are available in Malawi that are
used to renovate used tractors. Such kits have proven to be ponular among
estate owners and the participating banks anticipated that three to four
loans for tractor renovations could be processed each year. Overall, for
the small estates it is anticipated that about 285 subprojects would be
financed -ver the life of the Project at an average cost of about MK80,000.
5.            The indicative lending program for the agro-industries credit
line is based on assessments of likely demand provided by the participating
banks. It includes between 10 to 15 subprojects with a total cost of about
MKl.5 million.  One subproject involving the rehabilitation of a cotton
ginnery has already been prepared and is about to be presented to
INDEBANK's board for approval. It is anticipated that this subproject will
be rectoactively financed under the proposed Project. Other candidates for
subprojects include the rehabilitation of existing large scale maize and
processing mills. These m.lls are currently owned by ADMARC and are
candidates for the divestiture program currently being implemented. It is
anticipated that once divehture is completed the new owners will seek
financing for the rehabilitation of the existing plant and equipment.
Additional oil processing capacity is another subproject candidate as are
investments in new small-scale maize mills and rice hullers.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicatie Program of Subprojects
Average      Number of   Kwacha
Unit Cost    Projects    Thousands
Large Estates
Irrigated Crop diver-
sification projects          1,500          4          6,000
On-farm Processing             1,250          4          5,000
Tobacco Expansion                 750        10          7,500
Estate Rehabilitation           1,500         3          4,500
Sub-total                                21        23,000
Small Estates
10 ha Burley Model 1            36.5         180          6,570
10 ha Flue Cured Model 1        42.5          20            950
45 ha Burley-Mechanized        207.5          40          8,300
15 ha Flue Cured-Mechanized   268.0           15          4,020
Incremental tobacco
diversified grain
40 ha Maize Production
30 ha Irrigated Coffee         334.0           5          1,670
Tractcr Rehabilitation          60.0          25          1,500
Sub-total                                285         23,010



-58 -
AdQ1EX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative Program of Subprojects
Average      Number of    Kwacha
Unit Cost    Projects      Thousands
Agroprocessing
Large Scale-Maize & Wheat             1,500           2          3,000
Processing (rehabilitation)
Cotton Ginnery                        2,000           1          2,000
Large Scale-Rice                      1,500           2          3,000
Mill (rehabilitation)
Oil Processing                        1,500           1          1,500
Plant (rehabilitation)
Oil Processing                        2,000           1          2,000
Plant (new)
Small Scale                               5          10             50
Haize and Rice
Processing Operations
Sub-total                                            17         11,550



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Appndx 2
Page 1 of 1
MkLAWI
AORICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Lending Activities Under tho
Industrial and Aaricultural Credit Prolect (Loan 2846-MI)
Name of Investment Project and        Participating   Project            Amount Authorized   Aggroegte
Type of Activity                   Bank         Number    Date          USe               US$
Chilangoma Dam Project                  NBM             AG-1      02/87       822,600           822,600
(Namingomba Tea Estate, Ltd.)
Mwhnzo Coffee Projlct                   NBM             AC-2      06/87       844,000           C68,600
(Bandangs Ltd.)
General Farming-Tractor Projoct         NBM             AG-3      09/87       250,000           916,500
Pross Farming-Tractor Projoct           C8M             AC-4      09/87       260,000         1,166,500
Kwawalazi Estate Company-Dlvereifted   INDEBANK         AG-6      10/87        00,4'00        1,666,600
Cropping
Imapia Farming Company-Diveralfld      INDEBANK        AG-8      10/87       600,000         2,166,600
Cropping
Zoo Too Estate                          INDEBANW        AG-7      10/87       250,000         2,416,600
(Teo Processing)
Nchima Teo and Tung Estates, Ltd.       NBM             AG-a      10/87       500,000         2,916,500
I. Conforzi (Tea and Tobacco Ltd.)      NBM             AG-9      12/87       500,000         8,146,510
(Coffee Irrigation)
Chigonaml Kongo Estates, Ltd.           CBSM            AG-10    04/88        286,000         8,651,500
(Cotton Ginnery)
Nachambo Estato                         INDEBANK        AG-11    06/88        280,000         8,981,500
(Coffot Irrigation)
Monokena Estate                         CBM             AC-12    06/88         28,000         8,967,500
(Tractor Rehabilitation)



- 60 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 14
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Sector Lending Models
The following are five models of agricultural estates in
Malawi showing possible borrowing requirements and repayment capacity.
These models have been developed on the basis of information acquired from
the Tobacco Association of Malawi and the Agricultural Liaison Department
of the National Bank of Malawi. Two of these models are of essentially
small-scale tobacco growers with annual turnovers below MK100,000, and
three are of medium-scale growers falling within the proposed MK100,000 to
MK500,000.  The two models of small-scale growers are based on borrowing
fot tobacco intensification combined with an increase in area of the crop
grown, two of the medium-scale grower models are similarly based with some
diversification into commercial grain production and the final model is
based exclusively on borrowing for diversification into coffee production.
All cost and price assumptions are based on 1987/88 levels.
MODEL 1
Annual turnover from tobacco sales MK39,000. Ten ha burley
tobacco grown under the tenant system. No mechanization and all field
cultivation carried out by the tenants. No other crops grown except tenant
subsistence crops grown on first year tobacco fallow land with no
fertilizer. No surface water on the estate and tobacco seedlings are
produced some distance from the estate adjacent to a stream. A tobacco
graded and stored under pole and thatch buildings.
Assumptions - Before Proiect
1. All tobacco production costs self-financed.
2. Average tobacco yield 1,200 kg/ha.
3.  Average price net of deductions MK3.25/kg.
4.  Tobacco production costs MK2,500/ha.
The Proiect
To increase area of burly tobacco grown annually to 15 ha
requiring the clearing of 10 ha additional arable land.
To construct a brick under iron grading shed with sand and
wood fired humidifier and tobacco bulk store with total floor space of 70
m22.



- 61 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 14
To sink and equip one borehole for tobacco seed beds and
tenant domestic water requirements.
Project costs:                         MK
10 ha land stu..ped, ripped and        3,000
deep ploughed at MK300/ha
70 m2 buildings @ k 50/m2              3,500
Borehole with pump and motor          30,000
Total Cost               36,500
Assumptions - With Proiect
1.            Sponsor constructs building as his contribution to costs.
Balance of MK33,000 borrowed @ 16Z interest per annum.
2.            Sponsor borrows MK5,000 of increase in working capital as
bridging finance from a commercial bank @ 182 interest per annum or average
charge of 52.
3.            Tobacco yield increased by 15% due to;
(a) Better seedlings raised on the estate which suffer no
transport damage.
(b) Less time spent by tenants on carrying domestic water
requirements.
(c) Less weight loss during grading and storage.
4.            Tobacco price increases to MK3.50/kg as a result of better
handling facilities during grading.
5.            Production costs rise to MK2,650/ha.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 14
(MK '000)
Before Proiect                       With   Proiect
PYO       PYl       PY2       PY3      PY4       PYS       PY6
Inflow
Crop Revenue        39.00      72.45      72.45     72.45      72.45   72.45      72.45
Loan                 0         33.00       0         0          0        0         0
39.00    105.45      72.45      72.45     72.45   72.45       72.45
Outflow
Investment           0         36.50      0          0          0       0          0
Production Costs   25.00       39.75     39.75      39.75      39.75   39.75      39.75
Bank Interest        0          0.25      0.25       0.25       0.25    0.25       0.25
Surplus             14.00                28.95      32.45      32.45   32.45      32.45
Loan Service
Interest          0          5.28      3.96       2.64       1.32    0          0
Principal         0          8.25      8.25       8.25       8.25    8.25       0
Net Surplus         14.00      15.42     20.24      21.56      22.88   32.45      32.45
MODEL 2
Annual turnover from tobacco sales MK42,000 10 ha flue cured
tobacco grown with ox drawn mechanization. Two ha maize grown for labor
rations. No surface water on estate and tobacco seedlings are produced
some distance fzom the estate adjacent to a stream. Good brick built
curing barns, grading and storage sheds available.
Assumptions - Before Proiect
1.            MMK10,000 of production costs borrowed as bridging finance
from a bank @ 18% interest per e  um or average charge of 5Z.
2.            Average tobacco yield 1,200 kg/ha.
3.            Average price net of deductions MK3.50/kg.
4.             Tobacco production costs M13,3250/ha.
5.            Average maize yield of 50 bags/ha all consumed on the estate.
6.            Production costs of maize MK800/ha.
7.            Spare capacity exists within grading and storage sheds but
not with curing barn space.



- 63 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 14
The Project
To increase the area of tobacco grown annually to 13 ha
requiring the clearing of 6 ha additional arable land.
To sink and equip one borehole for tobacco seedbeds, water
planting of early tobacco and domestic use.
To construct two additional curing barns of 6m x 6m each.
To purchase two additional draft oxen and a farm cart.
Project Costs:                                  MK
6 ha land stumped, ripped and            1,800
deep ploughed e MK300/ha
72 m2 barn space e MK100/m2              7,200
Borehole with pump and motor            30,000
2 draft oxen e MK500 each                1,000
One farm cart @ MK2,500                   2,500
Total Cost                42,500
Assumptions with proiect
1.            Sponsor constructs additional tobacco curing barns as his
contribution to project costs.  Balance of MK35,300 borrowed e 16Z interest
per annum.
2.            MK20,000 of production costs borrowed as an overdraft from a
commercial bank @ 18Z interest per annum or an average charge of 8.5z.
3.            Tobacco yield increases by 20Z due to:
(a) Better seedlings raised on the estate which suffer no
transport damage.
(b) Early water planting of tobacco crop.
4.            No increase in tobacco price.
5.            Tobacco production costs rise to M13,400/ha.
6.            Area of maize grown for farm rations increases to 2.5 ha.
7.            Maize production costs remain at MK800/ha.



- 64 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 5 of 14
Six Year Cash Flow Projections Showing Scheduling of Loan Repayments
(constant 1987/88 prices)
(MK '000)
Before Proiect                              With   Proiect
PYO       PYl       PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      PY6
Inflow
Revenue             42.00      65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52
Loan                 0         35.30      0        0         0        0         0
42.00    100.82    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52
Outflow
Investment           0         42.50     0         0         0        0         0
Production Costs   34.10       46.20    46.20    46.20    46.20    46.20    46.20
Bank Interest        0.50       1.70     1.70      1.70      1.70     1.70      1.70
Surplus              7.40      10.40    17.62    17.62    17.62    17.62    17.62
Loan Service
Interest          0          5.65     5.65      4.52     3.39      2.26      1.13
Principal         0          0        7.06      7.06      7.06     7.06      7.06
Net Surplus          7.40       4.77     4.91      6.04      7.17     8.30      9.43
MODEL 3
Annual turnover from tobacco sales MK204,750 45 ha burley
tobacco grown under tenant system. Fully mechanized with medium tractor
and ancillary equipment which is in poor condition. No other crops grown
by tenants except tenant subsistence crops produced on first year tobacco
fallow land with no additional fertilizer. No surface water on the estate
and tobacco seedling are produced some distance from the estate adjacent to
a stream. Brick under iron grading and storage sheds are used but there is
no spare capacity for increased crop.
Assumptions - Before Project
1.            MK80,000 of tobacco production costs are borrowed on bank
overdraft @ 182 interest per annum or an average charge of 8.5Z.
2.            Average tobacco yield 1,400 kg/ha.
3.            Average price net of deductions MK3.25.
4.             Production costs MK3,000/ha.



- 65 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 6 of 14
The Proiect
To increase the area of burley tobacco grown to 55 ha.
To increase area of grading shed and tobacco store by 60 m2
with brick under iron construction.
To sink and equip two boreholes for seedbeds and tenant
domestic water requirements.
To purchase one medium-sized tractor and ancillary equipment.
To produce 35 ha of maize both for tenant rations and sale.
Project Costs:                                  MK
20 ha land stumped, ripped and            6,000
deep ploughed 2 MK300/ha
60 m2 grading and storage space           3,000
constructed @ MK50ImZ
2 boreholes with pumps and               60,000
motors @ MK30,000
One medium tractor                      110,000
One x 3 furrow disc plough                7,500
One x 20 disc harrow                      7,000
One x 5 ton farm trailer                 14,000
Total Cost              207,500
Assumptions - With Proiect
1.            Sponsor meets cost of one borehole, land clearing and
preparation and construction of additional grading and storage space as own
contribution to project cost being MK39,000. The balance of MK168,500 is
borrowed @ 16Z interest per annum.
2.            MX120,000 of tobacco growing costs are borrowed on bank
overdraft @ 18Z interest per annum or an average charge of 8.5Z.
3.            Tobacco yield increased by 25Z due to:
(a) Better tobacco seedlings produced on the estate which
suffer no transport damage.
(b) Less time spent by tenants upon carrying their domestic
water requirements.
(c) Discontinuation of the practice of allowing tenants tog
row subsistence crops on first year tobacco fallow lands
in place of maize grown by sponsor with fertilizer
application.



- 66 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 7 of 14
(d) Improved land preparation with new tractor and ancillary
equipment.
4.            No increase in tobacco price.
5.            Tobacco production costs rise to MK3,150/ha.
6.            Maize yield of 60 bgs/ha.
7.            Maize price net of selling costs MK20/bg.
8.            Of total maize production of 2,100 bgs, 600 bgs are retained
for tenant rations and the balance of 1,500 bgs is sold.
9.            Maize production costs MK800/ha.
Six Year Cash Flow Projections Showing Scheduling of Loan Repayments
(constant 1987/88 prices)
(MK '000)
Before Project                              With   Project
PYO       PYl       PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5       PY6
Inflow
Revenue             204.75    342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81
Loan                  0        168.50     0         0        0         0        0
204.75    511.31   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81
Outflow
Investment            0       207.50      0         0        0         0        0
Production Costs   135.00    201.25   201.25   201.25   201.25   201.25   201.25
Interest              6.80     10.20    10.20    10.20    10.20    10.20    10.20
Surplus              62.95     92.36   131.36   131.36   131.36   131.36   131.36
Loan Service
Interest           0        26.96    21.57    16.18    10.79       5.39      0
Principal          0        33.70    33.70    33.70    33.70    33.70        0
Net Surplus          62.95      31.70    76.09    81.48    86.87    92.27   131.36
MODEL 4
Annual turnover from tobacco sales MK210,000 40 ha flue cured
tobacco grown with full mechanization being medium tractor and ancillary
equipment in poor condition. No other crops grown and 400 bgs maize
required for farm rations are purchased from local smallholders e MK16/bg.
Seedling produced on farm from small supply of surface water which is not
adequate for early water planting of main tobacco crop. Good brick under
iron curing barns, grading sheds and tobacco store available.



- 67 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 8 of 14
Assumptions - Before Project
1.            Average tobacco yield 1,500 kglha.
2.            Average tobacco price net of deductions MK3.50/kg
3.            Tobacco production costs MK4,350/ha.
4.            No spare curing, grading or storage capacity exists for an
increased tobacco crop.
5.            MK100,000 of tobacco growing costs are borrowed on bank
overdraft e 18Z interest per annum or an average charge of 8.5Z.
The Proiect
To increase the area of tobacco grown annually to 55 ha.
To increase area of tot cco curing barns by construction of
l0 x 6 m x 6m brick under iron buildings (360 m ).
To increase area of grading sheds and tobacco straws by
construction of 120 m2 of brick under iron buildings.
To sink and equip two boreholes for early water planting of
tobacco.
To purchase one medium-sized tractor and ancillary equipment.
To produce 40 ha maize for farm labor rations and sale.
Project Costs:                                              MK
30 ha land stumped, ripped and             9,000
deep ploughed e MK300/ha
360 m2 curing barns e MK100/m2            36,000
120 m2 grading/storage e MX50 m2             6,000
2 boreholes pumps and motors            60,000
e M130,000
One medium tractor          110,000
One x 3 furrow disc plough             7,500
One x 20 disc harrow             7,000
One x 5 ton trailer           14,000
One x 500 gallon water bowser             8,000
One ridger fertilizer unit            10,500
Total Costs          268,000



- 68 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 9 of 14
Assumptions - With Project
1.             The sponsor will meet the costs of all building construction
being hX42,000 as his contribution
2.            MK180,000 of tobacco growing costs are borrowed on bank
overaraft Q 18? interest per annum or an average charge of 8.5Z.
3.             Tobacco yield to increase by 202 due to:
(a) Early water planting of tobacco crop.
(b) Better land preparation with new tractor and ancillary
equipment.
4.             Tobacco production costs will remain the same as any increase
in costs due to water planting will be offset against savings as maize for
labor rations is no longer purchased.
5.             Tobacco price to remain unchanged.
6.            Maize yield of 60 bgs/ha giving total production of 2,400 bgs
of which 550 bgs will be retained for labor rations and the remainder sold.
7.            Maize price net of sale costs MK20/bg.
8.            Maize production costs MK800/ha.
Six Year Cash Flow Projections Showing Scheduling of Loan Repayments
(constant 1987/88 prices)
(MK '000)
Before Proiect                              With   Proiect
PYO       PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4       PY5      PY6
Inflow
Revenue             210.00    383.50   383.50   383.50   383.50   383.50   383.50
Loan                  0        226.00     0         0         0        0         0
210.00    609.50   383.50   383.50   383.50   383.50   383.50
Outflow
Investment            0        268.00     0         0         0        0         0
Production Costs   174.00    271.25   271.25   271.25   271.25   271.25   271.25
Interest              8.50      15.30    15.30    15.30    15.30    15.30    15.30
Surplus              27.50      54.95    96.95    96.95    96.95    96.95    96.95
Interest              0         36.16    36.16    28.93    21.70    14.47        7.23
Principal             0          0       45.20    45.20    45.20    45.20    45.20
Net Surplus          27.50      18.79    15.59    22.82    30.05    37.28    44.52



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 10 of 14
MODEL 5
Annual turnover from tobacco sales MK252,000.  40 ha flue
cured tobacco grown with full mechanization being medium tractor and
ancillary equipment in good condition. Estate well developed with good
water supplies being a perennial stream and good building for tobacco
handling. 7 ha maize producing 400 bgs which is used exclusively fc. labor
rations.
Assumptions - Before Project
1.            Average tobacco yield 1,800 kglha.
2.            Average tobacco price MK3.50 net of deductions.
3.            Tobacco production costs MK4,500/ha which includes cost of
production of maize for estate rations.
4.            MK120,000 of tobacco growing costs are borrowed on bank
overdraft a 18Z interest per annum or average charge of 8.5Z.
The Proiect
To establish 30 ha coffee irrigated with the basin system.
Stream flow on the farm is adequate for this with direct pumping so costly
water storage works will not be required.
To construct and equip a coffee factory.
To purchase one small vineyard type 'ractor and 'hockey
stick' tractor drawn sprayer.
To purchase one high-sided farm trailer.
Project Costs:                                             MK
Irrigation equipment, including            60,000
pump, motor main supply line
and drag lines
Factory building and fermenting tanks           12,000
Factory processing equipment           25,000
Coffee drying tables           18,000
Small tractor and sprayer           60,000
High sided farm trailer           12,000
Land clearing, ripping and ploughing            9,000
Coffee development, including          138,000
cost of fertilizer and chemicals
during first three years
Total Costs         334,000



- 70 -             ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 11 of 14
Assumptions - With Proiect
1.             The sponsor will contribute MK102,000 towards project costs
in the form of coffee crop development which has been generated from
tobacco surpluses before the project.
2.             No change in the price of tobacco or cost of tobacco
production.
3.             Coffee yield at full maturity, being project year 4 is 2.5
tons of clean coffee per hectare.
4.             Coffee revenue accrues in the cash flow the year after
production and sale due to time lag with payment. These farm coffee
revenue is available to meet production costs in the year that it accrues.
5.             Assumptions on timing of investment, coffee operating costs
and coffee revenue (MK '000)
PYl     PY2      PY3     PY4      PYS
Investment cost               87.00   60.00  187.00    0          0
Operating cost                30.00   60.00  100.00  144.00  144.00
Coffee revenue                 0        0      75.00  270.00  375.00
6.             Coffee operating costs include cost of establishing 20 ha
mulch grass on tobacco fallow land.
7.             Deficit between coffee production costs and coffee revenue in
the year it accrues is borrowed on bank overdraft at an average charge of
8.52.
Six Year Cash Flow Proiections Showing Scheduling of Loan Repayments
(constant 1987/88 prices)
(MK '000)
Before Proiect                       With   Project
PYO       PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4      PYS       PY6
Inflow
Revenue             252.00    252.00   252.00   327.00   522.00   627.00   627.00
Loan                  0         69.00    18.00   145.00       0         0         0
252.00    321.00   270.00   472.00   522.00   627.00   627.00
Outflow
Investment            0         87.00    60.00   187.00       0         0         0
Production Costs   180.00    210.00   240.00   280.00   324.00   324.00   324.00
Interest             10.20      12.75    15.30    12.33    10.20    10.20    10.20
Surplus              61.80      11.15   (45.30)   (7.33)  187.80   292.80   292.80
Loan Service
Interest            0         11.04    13.92    37.12    37.12    18.56         0
Principal           0          0         0        0       116.00   116.00       0
Net Surplus          61.80       0.19   (59.22)  (44.45)   34.68   158.24   292.80
Surplus b/f         102.00    163.80   163.99   104.77    60.32    95.00   253.24
Surplus c/f         163.80    163.99   104.77    60.32    95.00   253.24   546.04



- 71 -            ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 12 of 14
MODEL 1 - 10 Ha Burley Tobacco Grown Under Tenant System, No Mechanization
(Financial Analysis)
PY 0      PY 1      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4     PY 5   PY 6
Inflow
Crop Revenue                    39.00    72.45    72.45    72.45    72.45    72.45   72.45
Total Inflow                    39.00    72.45    72.45    72.45    72.45    72.45   72.45
Outflow
Investment costs                 0        36.05      0        0         0         0        0
Production  & Operating Costs  25.00    40.01    40.01    40.01    40.01    40.01   40.01
Total Outlfow                   25.00    76.06    40.01    40.01    40.01    40.01   40.01
Net Surplus/Deficit             14.00      4.15    32.35    32.35    32.35    32.35   32.35
Incremental Surplus/Deficit              -18.15    18.35    18.35    18.35    18.35   18.35
Financial Rate of Return  97.762
MODEL 2 - 10 Ha Flue-cured Tobacco Grown with Ox-drawn Mechanization
(Financial Analysis)
PY 0      PY 1      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4     PY 5   PY 6
Inflow
Crop Revenue                    42.00    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52   65.52
Total Inflow                    42.00    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52    65.52   65.52
Outflow
Investment costs                 0        42.5      0         0         0         0       0
Production & Operating Costs  34.06    47.09    47.09    47.09    47.09    47.09   47.09
Total Outlfow                   34.06    90.04    47.09    47.09    47.09    47.09   47.09
Net Surplus/Deficit              7.04   -24.88    17.62    17.62    17.62    17.62   17.62
Incremental Surplus/Deficit              -32.28    10.22    10.22    10.22    10.22   10.22
Financial Rate of Return = 17.562



ANNEX 3
- 72 -            Appendix 3
Page 13 ofl4
MODEL 3 - 45 ha Burley Tobacco Grown Under Tenant System
Fully Mechanized.with Medium Tactor and Ancillary Equipment
with Diversification into Grain Production
(Financial Analysis)
PY 0      PY 1      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4     PY 5   PY 6
Inflow
Crop Revenue                   204.75              342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81
Total Inflow                   204.75   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81   342.81
Outflow
Investment costs                 0       207.05      0        0         0         0         0
Production & Operating Costs 141.08   211.45   211.45   211.45   211.45   211.45   211.45
Total Outlfow                  141.08   418.95   211.45   211.45   211.45   211.45   211.45
Net Surplus/Deficit             62.95   -76.14   131.36   131.36   131.36   131.36   131.36
Incremental Surplus/Deficit             -139.09    68.41    68.41    68.41    68.41    68.41
Financial Rate of Return = 40.062
MODEL 4 - 40 ha Flue-cured Tobacco Grown with Full Mechnization
Sales Turnover MK210,000 - With Diversification into Communitv Grain Production
(Financial Analysis)
PY 0      PY 1      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4     PY 5   PY 6
Inflow
Crop Revenue                   210.00   383.05   383.05   383.05   383.05   383.05  383.05
Total Inflow                   210.00   383.05   383.05   383.05   383.05   383.05  383.05
Outflow
Investment costs                 0       268.00      0        0         0         0       O
Production & Operating Costs 182.05   286.55   286.55   286.55   286.55   286.55  286.55
Total Outlfow                  182.05   554.55   286.55   286.55   286.55   286.55  286.55
Net Surplus/Deficit             27.05  -171.05    96.95    96.95    96.95    96.95   96.95
Incremental Surplus/Deficit             -198.55    69.45    69.45    69.45    69.45   69.45
Financial Rate of Return = 22.08Z



- 73 -
ANNEX S
Appendix 3
Page 14 of 14
MODEL 5 - 40 he Flue-cured Tobacco Grown with Full Mochnization
Sales Turnover MK252.000 - -With Dversification Into Coffee Producion
(Financial Analysis)
Py 0      PY I      PY2      PY3      PY 4      PY 6   PY 6-10  PY 11    PY 12-20
Inflow
Crop Rovenue                  262.00   252.00   252.00   827.00   622.00   827.00    7.00   627.00    627.00
Total Inflow                  262.00   262.00   262.00   327.00   522.00   627.00  627.00   627.00    627.00
Outflow
Investment costs                0        87.00    60.00   187.00      0        0        0      104.66       0
Operation A Operating Costs  190.2           222.76   265.3    292.33 334.2   3       384.2    334.2      334.2
Total Outitow                 19W.2    309.76   316.3    479.33    34.2    334.2  834.2    438.76    384.2
Not Surplus/Deficit            81.08   -57.75   -33.3   -162.33   187.08   292.08  292.08   188.26    292.08
Incremental Surplus/Deficit           -119.66  -126.01  -214.13   126.00   231.,00  231.00   126.46    231.00
Financial Rate of Return = 83.66X
Note: Investment costs in PY 13 = 100X to replace small tractor and sprayer, high-lded farm trailer and
co7fe drying table plus 10X to replace any Irrigation equipment, fermenting tanks and factory processing
equipment.



- 74 -                 ANNEX 3
-    -            Appendix 4
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing Models for Pilot Credit to Rural Traders
Small Scale Trader
Assembles maize from an area formerly served by 3 or 4 ADMARC
temporary stations. Has a small farm.
Annually buys 200 tons of maize per season: 150 tons is sold to
ADMARCs 50 tons is stored for a higher price and sold to retailers.
Credit Requirement
HK
Construction of a store 50 tons capacity: cost                  4,000
Contributes HK2,000 from own resources
Medium-term loan                                                 2,000
Working capital to buy maize and hold 50 tons
in store MK165 per ton averaging 4 months                       8,250
Total medium- and short-term credit                            12,250
Gross Income from hsandlint Maize
Margin on 150 tons at MK4 per bag                   6,600
Margin on 50 tons at MX10 per bag                   5,500
12,100
Payments to Credit Afency
Interest on medium-term loan (20Z)                    400
Repayment on principal                                400
Interest on seasonal loan  (20X)                      820
1,620
Ooeratint ExDenses
Transport costs (averaue MR3.0 per bag on 200 tons              6,600
Labor, etc.                                                     1.000
Living Costs covered by produce and income from farm
Net Cash Flow                                                   2,880
Collateral for Loans
Farm, house, grain store. Reputation as a stable element in
rural society.



- 75 -                 ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 3
Intermediate Scale Trader
Already operating a retail store in a rural center: has a small
farm.
Additionally, he buys 300 tons of maize per season: 200 tons is
resold promptly to consumers, retailers, and ADMARC. 100 tons is held in
store for a higher price.
Credit Requirement
Construction of a store 100 ton capacity: cost                   8,000
Purchase of pick-up truck 1-2 tons capacity                     60,000
Contribution from own funds                                     15,000
Medium-term loan                                                 53,000
Overdraft to buy maize averaging MK165
per ton for 80 tons over 4 months                               13,000
Total credit                                                    66,000
Gross Incomae from fandlins Maize
Margin on 200 tons at MK4tbag               8,800
Margin on 100 tons at MK10/bag             11,000
19,800
Payments to Credit IAency
Interest on medium-term loan (20Z)         11,100
Repayment on principal                     12,000
Interest on seasonal loan    (202)          1,000
24,000
Earninas Needed from other Sources
e.g., retail sales of consumer goods,
farm supplies and transport of produce for hire.
MK
Cash to cover payments to credit agency                          4,200
Cash to cover other expenses                                     5,800
Total                                                           10,000
Living expenses covered by produce and income from farm
Collateral
Farm, house, retail store, grain store, new truck. Reputation as
a stable element in rural society.



- 76 -                  ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 3 of 3
LarRe Scale Trader
Has an established transport business, has been trading in
agricultural produce for some-years.
Assembles maize from an area served by 5 or 6 ADMARC markets and
temporary buying stations.
Is an appointed distributor of maize from ADMARC depots.
Assembles and wholesales 2,000 tons maize; stores 1,000 tons in
ADMARC depot and 100 tons in own store.
Credit Requirement
MK
Construction of a store 100 tons capacity:  cost                  10,000
Purchase of new truck 7 tons capacity: cost                      130,000
Contributes MK50,000 from own resources
Medium term loan                                                90,000
Working capital to buy maize and hold 1,100 tons
in store (MK165 per ton averaging 4 months                    181.500
Total Credit                                                     271,500
Gross Income from handling Maize
Margin on 900 ts at MK4/bag                          39,600
Mar^'n on 1,100 ts at MK10/bag                      121,000
Margin on 1,000 te at KM5/bag                        55,000
215,000
Payments to Credit Agency
Interest on medium-term loan (202)                   18,000
Repayment on principal                               18,000
Interest on seasonal loan    (202)                   12,000
488,100
Operating Expenses
Fuel and other costs of truck,
labor, payments to ADMARC
for storage                                                   100,000
Office, other overheads and expenses                              50,000
Total cash outgoings                                            198,100
Net Cash Fiow                                                     16,100
(plus additional earnings from purchase and sale of rice, pulses, etc. and
custom hire of transport vehicle)
Co. -teral
Land, house, office, grain store, new truck, value of maize held
in ADMARC store for which warehouse certificates furnished; (100 ts at
MK165 per ton X 80X), i.e., MK132,000



- 77 -                    ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposal for Negotiable Warehouse Cerftificates
1.       ADMARC is prepared to establish two warehouses to act as the
acceptance depots for grain and to issue of negotiable warehouse
certificates. While the system would be initiated with grain, it could be
extended to other commodities (pulses, groundnuts, coffee, cotton, etc.)
traded by the private sector.
2.       The purpose of the system is two-folds
-    to provide the private sector with access to superior storage
facilities and professional storage management; and
-    to utilize the superiority of this storage as an "assured"
basis for stock trading, where the storage company issuing
the negotiable certificates has market credibility.
The certificates would provide the trader with:
-    collateral for obtaining working capital credit from the
banks through a lien on these certificates; and
-    a negotiable and transferable instrument, thereby permitting
trade in stock-in-store and reducing stock handling costs by
avoiding physical transfer until sale to the consumer.
CONDITIONS
3.       To enable this system to work a number of factors need to be in
place:
-    strict quality control on grain taken into storage;
-    high quality storage management;
-    formal recognition by the banks of the collateral value of
the certificate;
-    simple procedures for assignment of the certificates (i.e.
they have bearer value);
-    rules of forfeiture of the certificates, to the benefit of
either ADMARC or the bank;



ANNEX 3
- 78 -                      Appendix 5
Page 2 of 3
rules for redemption of the stock; and
a procedure for delivery of stocks from ADMARC warehouses
other than the receiving warehouses.
PROPOSALS
4.       INTAKE QUALITY CONTROL:  ADMARC would need to publish
cleanliness, bagging and moisture standards for the commodities it is
prepared to take into certified storage. It would be at ADMARC's
discretion to accept stock as it is delivered or to require cleaning,
drying, grading and rebagging, at the owners expense, either prior to
placing the commodity in store, or as an ADMARC service after the goods are
placed in store. As this inspection and stock handling is eApensive,
ADMARC would charge an immediate fee denominated as a fixed amount plus a 2
of the market value of the commodity placed in store as of the date of
storage commencement. This would be payable either in cash or in commodity
equivalent. If the latter is chosen, this amount would be deducted and the
certificate issued for the net quantity.
5.       STORAGE MANAGEMENT:  ADMARC would be responsible for maintaining
the quality of the stock placed in storage, through its normal storage and
stock management (e.g. fumigation, spot checks, etc.). These storage
services, and the storage space and time would have to be paid for at the
time the stock is withdrawn from storage. Two methods of payment are
possible, either to prepay for a fixed number of months storage at the time
of deposit (with t- . possibility of refund on early withdrawal), or payment
at time of withdrawal. For the latter ADMt-RC should establish storage time
limits after which they would have the right to take ownership of the
quantity of the commodity equal to outstanding storage costs.
6.       STORAGE LOSSES:  ADMARC would after acceptance of the commodity be
responsible for maintenance of the quality and quantity of the stock.
ADDMARC would return the exact quantity placed in storage, with perhaps a
small standard weight adjustment for moisture lose in storage. Such
charges and adjustments would have to be fully disclosed at the time of
storage.
7.       WITHDRAWAL:  The possessor of the storage certificate, upon
presenting it to ADMARC would be entitled to withdraw the certified stock,
less accrued costs. Instead of this simple "bearer certificate, it may be
preferable to include on the rear of the certificate an "assignment list"
where the current possessor of the certificate, through his signature
assigns the certificate, and the assignee also sign his acceptance of the
assignment. In this way ADMARC (or any other assignee) can through
checking the signatures have some certainty that the certificate is neither
forged nor stolen. However, to maintain a simple system, ADMARC would not
be required to maintain a record of the assignment of the certificates, but
would only maintain a record of the issue and redemption.



ANNEX 3
- 79 -                       Appendix 5
Page 3 of 3
8.       It may therefore be possible for ADMARC to redeem certificates at
any warehouse where such a commodity is stored, provided the grade and
quality is available in that store. For the stock to be released, the
possessor of the certificate would, in additional to all. other charges,
also be required to pay to ADMARC the equivalent of the transport and
handling costs plus a transport management fee, from the store of deposit
to the store of withdrawal, in accordance with a standard table of tariffs.
9.       COLLATERAL:  To serve as a basis for working capital collateral,
the banks would take physical possession of the certificates as a guarantee
against the loan, with the right to redeem the stock after a specified
time, this time being determined by the size of the loan, the interest
outstanding, the accumulated storage costs, and the market value of the
commodity.  Procedures for notification to the borrower informing of the
bank's intention to redeem the certificate would need to be established.
Loans likely would be made on the basis of ADMARC's buying price, and for
anywhere between 50-80Z of the value of the certificate so determined, in
accordance with the banks' assessment of individual risk and the
reliability of the storage operation.
10.      If the banks were to realize the monetary value of the
certificate, this balance would be transferred into the borrowers loan
account. Thus the bank's redemption of the certificate would not
necessarily release the borrower from his loan obligations if the :ommodity
was worth less than his debts. Similarly if the certificate was worth more
than his debts, he would then have a positive bank balance.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Schedule A
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Lending Terms for Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development
From Government to Participating   From Participating Banks
Item                           Banks (PBS)                    to Subborrowers
Purpose              Refinar.cing of viable               For establishment or
investment in agricultural           rehabilitation of agro-
marketing and estate                 industrial and marketing
development.                         enterprises including
investment in processing
plants and equipment, storage
facilities, transport, and
spare parts. Financing
through SEDOM for seasonal
working capital requirements
and medium-term credit needs
of rural merchants. For
estate development including
financing for land improvement
(irrigation, drainage, and
wood lots), establishment and
improvement of infrastructure,
purchase and improvement of
farm equipment and wachinery,
and purchase of livestock.
Loan amount          10O  of marketing and estate        Up to 652 of total investment
development loans.                   cost of subprojects for agro-
industrial and estate
subprojects. Up to 90Z for
pilot credit line for rural
traders.
Kwacha.
Currency             Kwacha
denomination of
loans



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Schedule A
Page 2 of 3
From Government to Paritcipating   From Participating Banks
Item                      Banks (PBS) and SEDOM              to Subborrowers
Interest rate       Funds would be on-lent to PBS        Lending rates have recently
at variable rates to be             been deregulated and are
adJusted on a point-for-point       currently market determined.
basis in line with changes in       Nevertheless, interest rates
the participating Bank's            for the proposed credit lines
agricultural lending rate           would be reviewed annually to
(currently 16Z). For large          ensure that they are in line
estates and agro-industrial         with the prevailing interest
subprojects, the spread             rate structure.
between the rate at which the
PBS borrow funds and their
agricultural lending rates
would be maintained at 5Z.
For small estates the spread
would be pegged at 7.0 The
rate on-lending for SEDOM from
RBM for the pilot credit
scheme would be not less than
3.O.
Collateral          To be determined in subsidiary       Mortgage when possible; lien
loan agreement.                     on machinery, and on crops or
inventories.
Approval            All credit except pilot scheme       By PBS in accordance with
funds would be made available       subproject criteria to be
on a first come-first serve         agreed during negotiations.
basis. Since the PBS would
bear credit risk no prior
approval is required by
Government. For SEDOM,
approval of annual lending
programs by MOA is required
before the lending program can
begin each year.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Schedule A
Page 3 of 3
From Government to Paritcipating   From Participating Banks
Item                           Banks (PBS)                    to Subborrowers
To coincide with repayment           Up to 12 years, repayment in
Loan period          schedule agree with sub-             annual instalments not to
borrowers for large estate and       exceed useful life of
agro-processing subprojects.         investment.  For SEDOM pilot
For small estate subproject          credit 3-12 months for
repayment would not be related       seasonal loans, 3-5 years for
to the repayment schedule by         medium term loans.
the borrower but would be made
in five equal annual
instalments based on
consolidated statements of
quarterly drawdowns. For short
term loans from SEDOM in
accumulated interest in full
with accumulated interest in
the 13th month. For medium
term loans from SEDOM, equal
payment of principle and
interest on an annual basis
over five years.
Grace period         To be same as the grace period       Up to 4 years from date of
agreed between PBS and sub-         withdraw, depending on nature
borrowers                            of investment.
Withdrawal of        By establishment and                 According to investment
funds                replenishment of special             schedule in feasibility
account.                             studies and progress of works.
Supervision          Through monitorirg and               By specialist staff at PBS
reporting and in the context        with assistance as required by
of auditing of PBS; and during       outside technical advisors;
IDA supervisions.                    and on a sample basis by IDA
during review mission.



- 83 -                    ANNEX 5
Schedule A
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Development Subproject Feasibility Study 1/
Table of Contents
1.  Introduction
1.1 General Purpose of the Subproject
1.2 Subproject Owners
1.3 Loan Financing Required
2.  Description of the Subproject
2.1 Subproject Location and Area
2.2 Topography, Rivers, and Irrigatiorn Potential
2.3 Soil, Hydrology, and Drainage
2.4 Energy Supply
2.5 Present Agricultural Use and common Crops in the Area
2.6 Structures and Farm Development Under the Subproject (in detail,
drawings as annexes)
2.7 Planned Agronomy Practices
2.8 Phasing of Project Implementation
3. Legal Aspects
3.1 Legal Basis of the investors (private, limited company, other)
3.2 Status of Lease Arrangements
3.3 Meeting of Environmental Requirements
4.  Management and Marketing
4.1 Organization and managerial staff of the investing enterprise
4.2 Labor Availability
4.3 Arrangements for Technical Advise
- for irrigation and crop production
- for crop processing
4.4 Operation and Maintenance of the Structures and Machinery
4.5 Marketing Arrangements
4.6 Roads and Transport
4.7 Construction Supervision and Inspection



- 84 -                    Annex 5
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
5. Production and Financial Plan
5.1 Projected Production by Year (20 years)
5.2 Investment and Operating Costs by Category and Phasing
5.3 Cash Flow Protections
5.4 Financial Rate of Return (based on 20 years project life)
5.5 Project Risks
Tables and Annexes
1/ Also called Subproject Preparation Report.



- 85 -                    ANNEX 5
Schedule B
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agroprocessing Subproject Feasibility Study
Table of Contents
1. Introduction
1.1 Nature of Subborrowers Business
1.2 General Purpose of the Subproject
1.3  Subprojects' owners
1.4 Loan Financing Required
2. Description of the Subproject
2.1 Subproject Location
2.2 Activities to be Financed (in detail including description of
equipment, relevant drawings, etc.)
2.3 Phasing of Project Implementation
3. Legal Aspects
3.1 Legal Basis of the Investors (private, limited company, other)
3.2 Licensing Requirements
4. Management and Marketing
4.1  Organization and Managerial Staff of Investing Enterprise
4.2 Labor Availability
4.3 Arrangement for Technical Advise (on operation of new equipment,
or new processes)
4.4 Operation and Maintenance of New Structures and Machinery
4.5 Marketing Arrangements (sources of input, sales of processed
products)
4.6 Construction Supervisor and Inspector
5. Production and Financial Plan
5.1 Projected Production by Year (20 years)
5.2 Investment and Operating Costs by Category and Phasing
5.3 Cash Flow Projections
5.4 Financial Rate of Return
5.5 Project Risks



ANNEX 5
- 86 -                    Schedule C
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Appraisal of Subprojects
1.           4When appraising the suitability of subprojects for financing
under the Project, the participating banks would use the following criteria:
General Procedures
(a) subprojects would be in line with the Credit Agreement
between IDA bad the Government and the subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and participating banks;1
(b) subproject preparation reports and loan application forms
submitted by subborrowers, and bank appraisal by
participating banks to have a form, content and details
acceptable to IDA; and
(c) field surveys, basic data collection and other studies and
projections for the subproject to be prepared with adequate
care.
Management Criteria
(a) organization, staffing, and arrangements for recruitment
and availability of qualified staff for the subproject to
be satisfactory;
(b) qualifications, TOR and terms and conditions of the
client's chief executives to be acceptable to the
participating bank, and be such as to contribute to
continuity of management of the subproject;
(c) subproject implementation schedules to be in such details
as to enable close monitoring by subborrowers and
participating bank; and
(d) subproject procurement plans to be in line with the
agreement with IDA.
.
1/ To be agreed upon separately.



- 87 -                    Annex 5
Schedule C
Page 2 of 4
Financial and Viability Criteria
(a) borrower to be financially sound, and to be able to present
satisfactory evidence of financial management performance
(e.g., with the help of audited accounts and/or good credit
performance);
(b) financial benefits, whose calculation is based on
sufficient and realistically projected data, to offer a
minimum 122 average IRR in constant terms (or other rate as
may be agreed between participating banks and IDA) on total
investment calculated before deductions for debt servicing,
depreciation or dividend;
(d) the financing plan in the subproject preparation report
(feasibility study) to include arrangements for working
capital requirements and other than project financing,
satisfactory to the participating bank and in accordance
with the Credit Agreement;
(d) cash flow projections to support the loan repayment plan,
allowing for up to four years grace;
(e) assets offered as security to be satisfactory to the
participating bank, &nd to take account of earlier
commitments; and
(f) the subborrower has adequate accounting and data collection
systems, which facilitate following the profitability of
project activities and collection of monitoring data for
project purposes.
Supply and Harketing
(a) supply plans to secure a sufficient amount of inputs and
labor for subproject operations to be presented in the
preparation report in such detail as deemed necessary.
This should be substantiated by detailed data on supply in
the surrounding area and in the country and adequate
arrangements for continued supplies to the subproject;
(b) the marketing plan in the subproject preparation report to
be realistic and sufficiently detailed, including such
information as: the market channel; transport; prices and
their expected movements; and
(c)  a registration certificate and a license, if required by
the Government, to establish the operation to be presented,
or arrangements made to obtain it to be satisfactory to the
participating bank.



Annex 5
Schedule C
Page 3 of 4
Technical Criteria
(a)  land chosen for estate development should be:
(i)    legally leased, with secured leases for longer than
project life; 2
(ii)    essentially free from encumbrances until loan
repayment is completed;
(iii)    suitable for estate development (i.e., have suitable
i.opography, soil, altitude, etc.);
(iv)    not subject to flooding, and having sufficient source
rf water for irrigation network where these are being
tinanced;
(v)    easily accessible and served by access roads, or
suitable provisions made in the subproject proposal
for such roads; and
(vi)    in an area, where sufficient electrical power can be
secured or generated (for irrigated projects);
(b)  adequate irrigation, extension, and processing assistance
is available either from participating banks, or
arrangements have been made to obtain regular extension and
processing advice;
(c)  construction of iacilities is in accordance with national
standards and designs approved by the participating bank
and acceptable to IDA and not in conflict with existing
construction codes;
(d)  construction works supervision and inspection arrangements
include employment of qualified and engineering staff;
(e)  certification arrangements for progressive contract payment
to be in accordance with instructions issued by
participating bank and agreed with IDA;
(f)  construction and installation works and equipment
procurement to be let on competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines and local procedures
acceptable to IDA; and
(g)  satisfactory environmental guidelines are to be applied to
the subproject in question.
2/ Or arrangements satisfactory to the participating banks should be made
to secure such a lease.



- 89 -                    Annex 5
Schedule C
Page 4 of 4
Appraisal by Participating Banks and IDA
(a) the authority of branch offices or affiliated regional
level banks to review loans will be according to the
practice of each bank.
(b) subproject monitoring arrangements to include furnishing of
requested information to, and periodic physical supervision
by the respective participating bank group; and
(c) first three subprojects in each bank to be reviewed and
approved by IDA, who would also review a selected number of
other subprojectR during the follow-up visits to Malawi.



- 90 -
MALAWI                                     ANNEX 5
Schedule D
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   Page 1 of 3
STANDARD REPORTING FORM - ESTATES DEVELOPMENT LOANS
FORM 1:         QUARTERLY REIMBURSEMENT REQUEST
NAME OF BANK:
CLAIM PERIOD:             FROM:  -__  /19_               TO:  __/  /19
ISUMMARY:  (MK '000)                 I  THIS QUARTER   |  YEAR TO DATE    ITOTAL LENDINGI
I mmmmmmaaflammammamminainfsSlmtim"UUUUmWUUiiSUinUininUWUsssaUUUmUUninWm =I
IA:    SMALL ESTATES:                I                    I                     i                 I
I     TOTAL LENDING:                 I                    I                     I                 i
TOTAL IDA CLAIM:
lBs    LARGE ESTATES
TOTAL LENDING:
TOTAL IDA CLAIM:              I                    I                                       I
I REF ITOTAL   IBANK'S I IDA    11               FOREX CERTIFICATES ISSUED (MK '000)
i    JLOAN    IFUNDS   I PART   ITRACTORSIPUMPS  IPIPINGIIRON-SHEETIOTHER Specifyl
ISECTION A: SMALL ESTATES            (I          I        I        I             I                I
I      I         I         I         11I                  I        I             I 1
IT  A  I         I         I         III                  I        I             II
I  - - - -  - -  - -                             1        1        1             1                1
I   I         I         I         11           1     .1         1             I                1
I      I         I         1         11          1      .* I       I             I                I
i      I         I         I         11          1        I        1             I                1
ITOTAI.          I         I         II l                 I        I             I                I 
|SECTION B: LARGE ESTATES!
I      I         I         1         11           I       I        1             1                I
I       I         I       1      11           1I                      I                        I
I      I         I         I         11           I       1        I             1                i
I      I         I         1         11          1        I        1             1I
I      I         I         1         11          1        1        I             1                1
I      I         I         1         11           1       1        1             1                1
I  I         I         I         11           I        1       1             I                 1
I      I         I         1         11           I       1        1             1                 1
I      I         I         1         11           I       1        1             1                 1
I      I         I         1         11           1       1        I             1                 1
I      I         I         1         11           1       1        1             1                 1
I      I         I         1         11           1       1        1             1                 1
|TOTAL|          I         I         II           I       I        I             I         



-91-                       ANNEX 5
Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
AGRICULTURAL. MARKETING AND ESTATES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STANDARD REPORTING FORM - ESTATES DEVELOPMENT LOANS
FORM 2:  COMPLIANCE SUMMARY
NAME OF BANKs
CLAIM PERIOD:    FROM: __I  /19  TO: _/_ /19_
ISUNMARY: (MK '000)       I THIS  IYEAR TOI        TOTAL LENDING
IQUARTERI DATE I 1989 1 1990 1 1991 1 1992 1
I        ===-======33mu I -ss|===S|-- I |"--=====I ==-a--   |=in  I
IA:  SMALL ESTATESsI
I TOTAL LENDING:
I BANK'S LOAN:
I TOTAL IDA CLAIM:
IB:  LARGE ESTATES
I TOTAL LENDING:
BANK'S LOAN
I TOTAL IDA CLAIR.        I       i
ICOMPLIANCE:
BANK'S PARTICIPATION (%)
I SMALL ESTATE            I
I LARGE ESTATES
i                         I       I       I        I       I      I       I
ILARGE ESTATE CUMMULATIVE LENDING AS Z:    I       I       I      I       i
I TOTAL LENDING
I LOAN TOTALS
I IDA PARTICIPATION
I                         I       I       I        I      I       I       I



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STANDARD REPORTING FORM - ESTATES DEVELOPMENT LOANS
FORM 3: ESTATE LOAN REPORT
NAME OF BANK: _
LOAN REFERENCE NUMBER:
CLAIM PERIOD:              FROM:  _   / _     19          TO:   _    _   / 19
ESTATE NAME:                              -       EUTATE I.D. NUMBER:  -_- -____
BORROWER'S NAME                                   BORROWER I.D. NUMBER:                    LOAN CLASSIFICATION (mark with X)
ESTATE OWNERSHIP:  PERSONAL/ PARTNERSHIP/ CORPORATE (circle appropriatjyT                I __    SMALL ESTATE
LOCATION - AG. DISTRICT                           SUB-DISTRICT                           I _     LARGE ESTATE
ESTATE ADDRESS: | 
I KEY DATES:                                       ILOAN DETAILS:                            OTHER COMMENTS:                                     |
I APPROVAL                   -  / _ /19            ITOTAL PROJECT COST:           UK       I                                                    .
I DISBURSEMENT COMMENCEMENT     /      / 19 _      ITERM                          yoars
I DISBURESMENT COMPLETION   =  / =  / 19           IINTEREST RATE                 X        I
I ESTATE DATA:                                     IBANK'S OWN FUNDS:             wK       I
I LEASEHOLD1FREEHOLD (specify)                     IIDA FUNDS:                    LK       I 
I SIZE OF TOTAL HOLDING: (ha)                      ITOTAL LOAN:             L_     K       I
I LEASE - termination date  -_  / _- / 19 _         =---_
I REGISTRATION STATUS (specify) :
I AGRICULTURE DATA - Crops area and production and         CULTIVATION BEFORE LOAN = *NOW' 
l Gross and Net Valu  of production   CULTIVATION AT FULL DEVELOPMENT (AFTER LOAN)   *AFTER6    YEAR:  19                I
--                           -== = = == =_    _ =_ = = __ __   ____   -   _ ---_- -__- -_--- - =-_                     I
l                 l - - - -   NOW   - - - - - - - I - - - AFTER  (19   ) - - - -I          CROP         I      CROP       I
AREA    PRODUCTION.   VALUE   lAREA   PRODUCTION.   VALUE   I COST OF PRODUCTION I  NET VALUE                                        l
CROPS      I (ha)      (kg's)      (mk 'N0) I (ha)   (kg's)       (mk '000)1    NOW  AFTER       I NOW   AFTER   I
---==-=====__---===---===CC==9=-__ _--- --CQ--==                       -C=_   -                    -I      -  ==    =     I                              s
l TOBACCO         I                                I                              I                     I                 I
l  MAIZE          I                                I                               I                    I                 I
l OTHER: (specify)
I                 I                                I                               I                    I                 I
l      ~~TOTAL                                                   
I=  =  =_   _ = =   =_ =   =  =  = _   Q TOA  I        =    C                             _   __ ____ = =I___
LABOUR         I                     II LOAN USES        (specify amount)       M. Kwache's  - I FOREX CERTIFICATE ISSUED    I
(labour units)  I NOW     AFTER       II c-         9:                           - 9Q                        -(value)           I
l========I ======== -- -- Tractor                       l                        I                              I
l OWNER           l                     II Borehole
l OWNER'S FAMILY  I                     II Pump                           5                        5
I                 I                     II Irrigation A Water Piping
M UANAGER         l                     ll Tobacco Barn
OTHER MANAGERS                        1 II Other farm structures         I                       I                               I
I WAGE LABOUR:-   I                     II Land development                                                                                             M I  -o
I     PERMANENT  I                      II Procesing sachinery (specify):j                                                                           3Q  r 
- skilled  II                                                                                                                                 M M M
-unskilled  II                                                                                                                                    _ I c
CASUAL LABOUR   I                     ll Other (specify):                                                                                             M   F  n
TENANTS:-       I                     II                                 I                       I                               I
- families                                 ll                       I       ----------------       -----      -- -
-  abour units  I                    II                       TOTAL    I                        I                               I
I                 I _______________-____ II
I         TOTAL  I                      II



- 93 -                     ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
Marketing Services Advisor
The Marketing Services Advisor will be qualified in economics
and/or marketing, and experienced in the organization of agricultural
marketing support services. He will advise and assist the Chief Price
Policy and Market4.ng and the Marketing Services Officer in the
strengthening and maintenance of marketing support services including:
(a) Standards and Export Quality Control. Develop, in
collaboration with the relevant agencies, the use of
reliable weighing and measuring equipment, standards of
product quality and packaging, and export quality
controls.
(b) Storage and Bonded Warehousing. Review the need for
additional storage and prepare plans for its provisions,
develop regulations and procedures for a bonded
warehousing system and oversee its implementation.
(C) Credit for Marketing. Collaborate with credit
institutions in developing procedures for financing
private marketing entrepreneurs, assist traders in
preparing loan application and in understanding
repayment obligations.
(d) Marketing Information and Intelligence. Develop, in
collaboration with the relevant agencies, the collection
and dissemination of timely information on agricultural
production, quantities marketed and prices; develop a
market intelligence service for farmers and traders.
(e) Marketing Extension and Training. Develop a practical
marketing advisory service for farmers and traders;
organize and oversee a continuing training program for
private traders.
(f) Public Market Facilities. Review the need for
improvement; assist local authorities in developing
appropriate plans and designs and market management
procedures.
(g) Support and Monitoring of Private Trrders. Carry out
periodic review of private trader performance and
propose support measures as required.



- 94 -                    ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet Analysis
MK million as at end of FY86
NBM         CBM          INDEBANK   INDEFUND       SEDOM
Total Assets        457.5        165.9          31.3       4.8          4.4
Loans & Advances   151.8          80.3         27.2        2.0          3.7
Invest. GOM
Securities with
RBM.              226.5        47.4           1.6        2.3          -
Savings & Deposits
Accounts:         296.9       110.6           -          -            -
Equity Capital:      12.1          9.6          5.3        0.7          0.2



Annex 7
- 95 -                    Page 2 of 3
Income Statement Analysis
MK million as at er.d of FY86
NBM         CBM          INDEBANK   INDEFUND      SEDOM
Interest received:  37.5         21.2           4.6       0.5          0.4
Interest paid:      -19.1        -7.4          -2.0      -0.2          -
Net interest
income:           18.4         13.8           2.6      -0.3          0.4
Other incomes       N/A         N/A             0.3        0.0         0.0
Personnel expenses
& other over-
heads            N/A          N/A            -1.3      -0.5         -2.0
Provision for
loan losses       -2.2         -2.3          -0.8      -0.3         -0.1
Pre-tax profit/
loss              11.8          3.9           0.8      -0.5         -1.7
1/ N/A: figures not available



- 96 -                     Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Profitability Level (Z), Capital Adequacy (Z),
Liquidity (Z). and Loan Loss Coverage
NBM         CBM          INDEBANK   INDEFUND       SEDOM
Profitability level (Z):
Net interest/total
assets (Z)          4.0          8.3           8.3        6.3          8.2
Pre-tax profit or
loss/ Total
assets (Z)          2.6          2.4           2.5      -11.1       -38.6
Total overheads/
loans             N/A          N/A             4.8      25.0         54.0
Total overheads/
net interest (Z) N/A           N/A            47.4      192.0       570.0
Capital Adequacy (Z):
Equity/Total
Assets (Z)          4.8          5.9          16.9       14.5          5.4
Loans/equity (x)      6.9          8.1           5.1        2.8         18.5
Liquidity (Z):
Net current
assets/total
liabilities (Z)   49.3          28.6          19.0      69.9         13.9
Loans & advances/
total deposits
(Z)                51.1         72.6           -         -            -
Loan Loss Coverage:
Provisions for
doubtful debts
(MKOOO,FY86)    2171.0       2467.0         817.0      328.0         51.0
Doubtful loans or
loans arrears/
total loans (Z)  N/A           N/A             -          6.5        13.9



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
page 1 of 6
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETING POLICY, IWiFORMATION AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1        Privatization of agricultural trade requires that accurate
information on prices and supples be available to producers, traders and
consumers to ensure transparent price formation. A market price
information service is necessary to provide such data for all m_Jor food
products in the key "price determinant" markets (both producer and consumer
markets). Similarly, che development of the private trade needs to be
monitored and understood by the Ministry of Agriculture, as a basis for its
marketing and pricing policies, and for determining the future appropriate
role of ADMARC.
Data Requirements and Data Bases:
2.       The Ministry of Agriculture needs three sets of data to fulfill
its policy, planning , M&E, and market regulatory functionss
-    data on the activities of the private trade to gauge the
impact of the privatization on the development of the trade
and traders;
-    data to monitor food availability (primarily maize);
-    data to be used in establishing general food marketing
policy, for market development and market regulation.
3.       ADMARC requires, for its food security functions, its grain
marketing functions, and its general trading functions:
-    market price data;
-    an internal MIS that maintains up-to-date stock records
especially in terms of location;
-    national maize and other product supply forecasts and actual
production data.
Clearly the data requirements of all three major participants (the
producing, consuming and trading public; MOA; ADMARC) overlap as shown
below.



- 98 -                    ANNEX 8
page 2 of 6
____________________________--___________________________________________..
DATA                    Collector    Users
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
market prices           MOA           ADMARC, producer/consumer/traders/
MTIT
production forecasts    MOA           ADMARC, traders, MTIT
security stocks         ADMARC        MOA, MTIT
trader base data        MOA           SEDOM, ADHARC, MTIT
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
4       To ensure the validity of the data for the differing users, and at
the same time ensure the efficiency of data collection, the data bases and
the data collection methodologies have to be carefully designed. It should
be noted that the Ministry of Agriculture's data collection service is
based on sample and indicators alone, an not on a 10OZ survey or coverage
methodology, and therefore could be collected, and maintained cost
effectively. Funding for short term consultancies for the statistical
design of data collection, the data base designs, their computerization and
management, would be available under this project.
Harketing Policy Analysis:
5       For the policy analysis of the The Ministry of Agriculture, the
above data bases for markets and production, derived from systematic sample
data collection in the key "indicator" market places, would need to
supplemented by a imited number of special (M&E) surveys of traders. These
surveys would be supplemented by data provided by ADMARC and other
commercial storage companies on grain stocks in storage that are the
property of traders. Further, if the storage certificates come into wide
use for trader credit, monitoring the exchange pattern and dates of the
issue and cancellation of these certificates would provide an excellent
indicator of the functioning of the private grain trade. SEDOM's loan
appraisal data, as well as that of the commercial bank's lending to traders
could also be utilized by MOA in the development of their trader and
trading data base.
6       With this data set, MOA could derive analysis of market activity,
regionally and nationally, to develop effective market policy. However,
MOA needs to set out a program of marketing issues and special study topics
to be undertaken within the next two years, to provide them with both the
base line data and the development-data of the marketing sector after
liberalization to permit credible policy-making. Such topics could include
the following:
-   marketing aspect of the Government's food security policy;
-   marketing aspects of the Government's agricultural prices
policy;



_ 99 _                     ANNEX 8
page 3 of 6
costs of marketing functions, including storage, transport,
and product transformation;
the assessment of the appropriate role of ADMARC in both food
security and commercial trading;
market intervention policies for both the Government and
ADMARC;
the development of the role of private traders in the food-
commodity and commercial-commodity markets, both for domestic
and export trade;
the infrastructure, regulatory, and services requirements to
ensure the effective functioning of the private sector
markets;
the regulatory role of MOA, MTIT and the Ministry of Local
Government;
- lmarketing prospects for traditional export crops, and
consequent crop development policy;
- ^-marketing aspects of any crop diversification policy; etc.
Food Security and ADMARC:
7        As a further strengthening of the food security program, ADMARC
should use the data to implement and maintain:
-    a market price monitoring system that provides the indicators
of ADMARC market interventions, the shifting of stocks etc.
-    a set of planning data and a national maize demand/supply
logistics model as the basis for ADMARC's management of the
food security program, and as a general trader in the maize
markets;
-    a cost effective corporate strategy and management plan for
its food security operations.
Market Price Information Collection and Dissemination:
8        Systematic collection of agricultural commodity prices for both
producer and consumer market transactions would form the basis of a regular
price dissemination program, to keep the public informed on prices in
specific markets. Key indicator markets have been identified, and the
survey methods proposed. Missing is the MOA program for data analysis,
verification, and collation. A program also needs to be designed to
"return" the collated and summarized data to the rural areas, and to the



- 100 -
ANNEX 8
page 4 of 6
consumers, through the news media, the local services of the ADD's and the
Ministry of Local Government's management of markets. Price information
needs to be permanently on display in public market places.
Monitoring and Evaluation - Non-quantifiable benefits
9        Especially for the marketing component of the proposed project,
but also for the estate component, the most beneficial aspects are non-
quantifiable. It should be the role of the M&E Unit in MOA's Planning
Division to design its data gathering to obtain indicators with which to
determine the level of success in achieving these benefits. The tables
below identify the benefits that should be sought by the M&E exercise.
10       MARKETING.  Many of the benefits described below, while assigned
to a single component, are dependent on other components being in place.
For example there are few social and economic benefits (as distinct to
personal financial benefits) t public sector market infrastructure
investments, without trader credit, and above all a functioning up-to-date
market price information service.
Marketing Components                     Benefits
Marketing Infrastructure                 Increased economic activity around
the market place;
Employment creation;
Increase in number of petty traders,
and permanent traders;
Development of regional traders from
rural population; (see credit)
Permanent shops and artisanal work-
shops;
Improved price formation from
increased competition
Decreased costs of marketing and
transport;
Decreased product marketing losses
Improved product handling and
storage.
Trader credit                            Increased purchase demand;
Wider geographic penetration of
traders;



- 101 -
ANNEX 8
page 5 of 6
IncrE.A.:ed competition and improved
producer and consumer prices;
Increased multi-product purchasing;
Increased consumer goods and perhaps
agro-inputs in rural areas through
expanding permanent multi-product
trading;
Decreased costs of consumer goods in
rural areas from lower back-haul
transport costs, and from
competition;
Expansion of trading activities into
local processing and storage
functions;
Employment creation;
Increased demand for artisanal
skills in rural areas (e.g.
transport repair services).
Market Price Information                 "Smooth" geographic price
differentials (i.e.tending to
transport cost differences);
Decreased over and under supply
situations;
Farmers more "orderly" marketing of
produce (i.e. not all at the
commencement el the season);
Increased farmer self-storage;
Competitive price setting;
Declines in consumer prices;
Greater elasticity for producer
prices with supply/demand imbalance,
but faster correction - net decrease
in price volatility;
Agro-processing                          Improved supplier prices
Declines in consumer prices
Improved processing quality
Better geographic availability of
processing facilities
Employment creation
Marketing Policy and Regulation          "Fair trade" practices;
Cost-effective marketing
infrastructure;
Quality improvements.



- 102 -
ANNEX 8
page 6 of 6
Food Security Policy                     Market supply stabili'y for staple
foods;
Orderly staple foods marketing
Decreased hording, but increased on-
farm storage
Improved geographic distribution of
stocks
Improved stability in consumer and
producer prices
Production incentives
11       ESTATE CREDIT.  Most of the benefits from the estate investments
will be quantifiable in terms of increased output and improved estate-owner
incomes. The impact of non-quantifiable economic and social benefits would
depend on the nature of the project beneficiaries, and the extent of the
"trickle-down" or multiplier effects of the owners' income improvements
within his community.
Estate Component                         Benefits
Credit                                   On-farm employment creation
Increased rural area demand for
consumer goods and artisanal
services
Welfare and income improvement of
farm tenants
Increased rural transport services
Health improvements from on-farm
water supplies



- 103 -
ANNEX 9
page 1 of 2
MALAWI
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
ESTATE POLICY DEVELOPMENT
1        Data available on the estate sub-sector is limited and
consequently the basis for policy-making in support of the development of
this sector is constrained. The Ministry of Agriculture's knowledge, the
World Bank's Land Policy Paper for Malawi, together with the examination of
tha small estate sector by the FAO/CP in preparation for this project has
lead to the identification of the following issues that require examination
as the basis for policy development:
-    what is the potential for this sub-sector, and in what crops?
-    what is its present and potential export earnings;
-    how can this sub-sector contribute to national food security?
-    to what extent is estate land utilized, and where is there
potential to increase and improve land utilization?
-    what are the constraints to increased output and expanding
land utilization?
-    what are the agro-technology requirements?
-    what are the seasonal financing requirements?
-    what are the capital investment requirements?
-    what is the level of agricultural management, and what is the
future requirement?
-    how can this sub-sector contribute to the alleviation of land
pressure and and create rural employment opportunities?
-    what is its incomes and welfare contribution?
-    what is the size of the tenant population, their income
levels and productivity?
-    what is government policy on tenancy arrangements, social
equity and welfare?
2        To begin to address such issues, a base-line census of the estates
is necessary, which would collect such data as:
-    numbers and size;



- 104 -                        ANNEX9
page 2 of 2
ownership characteristics (e.g. individual, corporate);
geographic distribution;
leasehold status;
land utili.ation;
cropping, productivity and farming systems;
capital investment levels;
profitability;
management (e.g. owner managed or hired management);
farm tenancy - numbers of tenants, their family size,
production and cost sharing arrangements, wages, incomes,
social conditions;
-    access to inputs, credit and output markets, etc.
3        This census could be managed by the Planning Division with
assistance from the Department of Statistics. Funds would be available
under this project for the following:
-    short-term consultancies to design data collection
procedures, questionnaires, evaluation and verification
methodolgy, data base management systems;
-    the costs of the field data collection, including transport
and salaries of the temporary enumerators, and their prior
training;
-    the costs of temporary statistical and clerical staff for
data collation, verification, and data input into the
computer;
-    short term consultancies for special study and analysis of
specific topics with data derived from the data base;
-    funds for special surveys to supplement and update this data.
The census could be conducted in cooperation with the Economics and
Statistics Department of Chancellor University and Bunda College, to
provide practical experience and training for the students. Students could
gain experience both in field enumeration, and in the data collation,
verification and analysis.



BRD 21033
ro Dar                                                         MALAWI
K<ARONA  .Oa t ,  fJlceRre     )  AGRICULTURAL MARKETING
-.-rnga         AND ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
"Orf> =02=            ff-hwawa                                     PROJECT
At^l-1    Of  wO/3ll B.* .'  l
-- \r V. W-01 t-a                                                   Marketing
P.,? Of        0                             vingston     ' .Infrastructure   Sites
O,r't- Of        r       , LIMIPHI           ;g0   Project Sites
_ Katowo   ,D 
Katowo     Ru   IAgricultural Development
Division Boundaries
Principal Roads
MZUZU A. D, D.               Z5twe   iLake                t         Rivers
0   Towns
Mankhsmb,haa        S *   District Capitals
} Mzhrb  i ' gAY  0    s       /       *   National Capital
-12                       ( N gatiXa    l Chisur dy                       District Boundaries   120
ZAMBIA   -1                                    Uroma            -  Region Boundaries
J 5 \ International Boundaries
IWJ_Wawi   > KILOMETERS O  20 40 60 eo 1eo
MILES  o  20   40    60
k1.               ao   - _ akoL
BLANsb A. att   v TYvREA.,20.           G Q- SALIMA A.O.D.
171 7Mohirui          ro Ae-ra
L IL0 ONG WE,,/ A.D.ey\LlW                                 D.D.
MOZAMBIQUE 1Zr8
.U./OhGW   /).a  112~                             n; RTE Nt
ZAI R    V& -                                                        Le
s    (   >        t         :TANZAkA ISO                  3ben
ANaoL>a t t. ~~COUMORS                                                       TOi9lit\ 590w daj.
.-IMBABD ZW / r vh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iramo
N \ } t / 1 < ~~~~~~~~NGABU A.D. D
r          ~~~~mmDalAR&                             >i  Nsanle
_ 5 _ 5 AFT"CA  _t   <         ~~~~34C                                   3 >s'
T    1 t8



