Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1966 MAI
                (Agricultural Marketing and Estate
                       Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 31, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1966 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 31,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Reserve
Bank of Malawi with  the  Borrower's  assistance,  and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower  will  make available to the Reserve
Bank of Malawi part of the  proceeds  of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and the Reserve Bank of Malawi;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral  part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings  therein  set  forth,  and  the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "RBM" means  the  Reserve  Bank  of  Malawi, established
pursuant to the RBM Act;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  Agreement  between the
Association and RBM, of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "RBM Agreement" means the  agreement  to be entered into
between the Borrower and RBM pursuant  to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be  amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules supplemental to the RBM Agreement;
     (d)  "RBM  Act"  means  the   Reserve   Bank  of  Malawi  Act
(Cap. 44:02 of the Laws of Malawi);
     (e)  "SEDOM"   means   the   Small   Enterprise   Development
Organization of Malawi;
     (f)  "Participating Bank"  means  any  one  of  the following
banks: Investment  and  Development  Bank  of  Malawi Limited, the
Commercial Bank of Malawi Limited and the National Bank of Malawi;
     (g)  "Participating Bank Agreement"  means  each  of the loan
agreements to be entered into by RBM and each of the Participating
Banks pursuant to Section 3.01  (c) of this Agreement, whereby RBM
will provide a Participating Bank with funds for Sub-loans, as the
term is defined in paragraph (h) below;
     (h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by a Participating  Bank  to  an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project out of  the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Credit  relent   to   the   Participating   Bank   pursuant  to  a
Participating Bank Agreement;
     (i)  "SEDOM Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into by RBM  and  SEDOM,  pursuant  to  Section  3.01  (c) of this
Agreement, whereby RBM  will  provide  SEDOM  with funds for SEDOM
credits as defined in paragraph (j) below;
     (j)  "SEDOM credit" means a loan  or  credit made by SEDOM to
an Investment Enterprise for an  Investment Project under Part A.2
of the Project;
     (k)  "Investment Enterprise" means any  enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to  make  or  has  made a Sub-loan and
includes any enterprise to  which  SEDOM  proposes to make a SEDOM
credit;
     (l)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or a SEDOM credit;
     (m)  "Malawi  kwacha"  and  "MK"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
Page  3
     (n)  "Special Account A"  means  the  account  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Special Account B"  means  the  account  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (p)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of  letters,  dated November 12, 1987, and
January 19, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
     (q)  "EP&D" means  the  Department  of  Economic Planning and
Development in the Borrower's Office of the President and Cabinet;
     (r)  "ADMARC"   means   the   Agricultural   Development  and
Marketing Corporation;
     (s)  "MBS" means the Malawi Bureau of Standards; and
     (t)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million   two    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 14,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:
          (i)  amounts  paid  (or,  if  the  Association  shall so
               agree, amounts to  be  paid)  by  RBM on account of
               withdrawals made by  an Investment Enterprise under
               a Sub-Loan or a SEDOM credit to meet the reasonable
               cost  of  goods  and   services  required  for  the
               Investment  Project   in   respect   of  which  the
               withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account is requested;
               and
         (ii)  expenditures made (or  if  the Association shall so
               agree, to be  made)  in  respect  of the reasonable
               cost of goods and services required for Parts B and
               C of the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
               proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Project, open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts B and C of
the Project, open and maintain  in  dollars a special account in a
commercial bank,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  4
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly  notify  the  Borrower  and RBM of such
later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
          (i)  from a date sixty (60)  days after the date of this
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
        (ii)   at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
               as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
               to paragraph (a) above. The  rate set as of June 30
               in each  year  shall  be  applied  as  of  the next
               payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, except  that  the rate set as of
               June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1  and October 1
commencing  April  1,  1999,  and  ending  October  1,  2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors of the  Association  and, after their due
               consideration of the  development of the Borrower's
               economy,  modify   the   terms   of   repayment  of
Page  5
               installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
               the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
               installment not yet due  until the principal amount
               of  the  Credit  shall  have  been  repaid.  If  so
               requested  by  the  Borrower,  the  Association may
               revise such  modification  to  include,  in lieu of
               some or all of the  increase in the amounts of such
               installments, the payment of  interest at an annual
               rate agreed with  the  Association on the principal
               amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
               time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
               Association, such  revision  shall  not  change the
               grant element  obtained  under  the above-mentioned
               repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  RBM  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V  of  the  General Conditions in respect of
Category (1) and Category (2) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Parts B  and  C of the Project with
               due diligence  and  efficiency,  and  in conformity
               with   appropriate   administrative,   agricultural
               marketing  and   financial   practices,  and  shall
               provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
               services  and  other  resources  required  for  the
               Project; and
         (ii)  without any limitation  or  restriction upon any of
               its other obligations  under  this Agreement, shall
               cause  RBM  to  perform,  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions  of  the   Project  Agreement,  all  the
               obligations of RBM therein set forth and shall take
               or cause  to  be  taken  all  action, including the
               provision of funds,  facilities, services and other
               resources, necessary or  appropriate  to enable RBM
               to perform such obligations,  and shall not take or
               permit to be taken  any  action which would prevent
               or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and, except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall  make  available  to  RBM the Malawi
kwacha equivalent of $15,500,000 from  the proceeds of the Credit,
under the RBM Agreement  to  be  entered into between the Borrower
and RBM under terms and  conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include:
Page  6
          (i)  an undertaking by  RBM  to  make  loans to Partici-
               pating Banks  and  SEDOM  under  Participating Bank
               Agreements and the  SEDOM  Agreement  to be entered
               into by RBM with each Participating Bank and SEDOM,
               respectively,  for  financing  Investment  Projects
               under terms and conditions specified in the Project
               Agreement; and
         (ii)  an undertaking by RBM  to  promptly transfer to the
               Borrower all payments of interest and repayments of
               principal made  by  Participating  Banks  and SEDOM
               under Participating Bank  Agreements  and the SEDOM
               Agreement, respectively.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights  under the RBM
Agreement in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Association,  and  to  accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and, except as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not  assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive the RBM
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree,  procurement  of  the   goods  and  consultants'  services,
required for Parts B and C  of  the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part A  of  the  Project  shall  be carried out by RBM,
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes to annually review and,
if necessary,  revise  interest  rates  to  ensure  that the rates
charged by Participating Banks  and  SEDOM  on Sub-loans and SEDOM
credits, respectively, are:
          (i)  in line with the overall interest rate structure in
               the Borrower's territory; and
         (ii)  adequate to permit the attainment of the objectives
               of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1989,  submit  to  the  Association,  for  its  review,  terms  of
reference and a work  program  for  the  implementation of a pilot
credit scheme.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of Parts B  and  C of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section,  including  those for
               Special Account B, for each fiscal year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any  case  not  later  than  nine (9) months
Page  7
               after the end of  each  such year, a certified copy
               of the report of  such  audit  by said auditors, of
               such scope and  in  such  detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures, with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until  at  least  one  (1)  year  after the
               Association has received the  audit, for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) as
               evidence of such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditure, submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  RBM shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  RBM  will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The RBM Act  shall  have  been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the operations or financial condition of RBM, its ability to carry
out the Project or  to  perform  any  of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of RBM or the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty (60)  days  after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and RBM; and
     (b)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph   (c)  or  (d)  of
Page  8
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement,
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower  has established the Marketing Committee
and  the  Estate   and   Agro-industries  Committee,  pursuant  to
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely,  that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or  ratified  by  RBM  and is legally binding
upon RBM in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Sections 3.01 and 3.03  of  this  Agreement  and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this  Agreement  shall  cease and determine on the
date on  which  this  Agreement  shall  terminate  or  on the date
fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Finance
           P.O. Box 30049
           Capital City
           Lilongwe 3
           Malawi
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                FINANCE                       44407
                Lilongwe
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
Page  9
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                        By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans:
     (a)   under               8,530,000         100% of expendi-
           Part A.1 (a)                          tures incurred
           of the                                under Sub-loans
           Project                               made by Partici-
                                                 pating Banks
     (b)   under              2,250,000          100% of expendi-
           Part A.1 (b)                          tures incurred
           of the                                under Sub-loans
           Project                               made by Partici-
                                                 pating Banks
(2)  SEDOM credits             1,100,000         100% of expendi-
     under Part A.2                              tures incurred
     of the Project                              under SEDOM
                                                 credits
(3)  Vehicles,                   150,000         100%
     equipment and
     office supplies
(4)  Technical                   620,000         100%
     assistance and
     overseas training
Page  10
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(5)  Operating costs             150,000         42%
(6)  Civil works                 500,000         90%
(7)  Information (M&E)           150,000         100%
     and studies
(8)  Refunding of                550,000         Amount due
     Project Preparation                         pursuant to
     Advance                                     Section 2.02 (d)
                                                 this Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 200,000
     TOTAL                    14,200,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals,  in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR $1,170,000,
may be made in respect  of  Category  1 (b) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1988;
     (b)  in   respect   of    payments    for   Sub-loans   under
Category (1) (a)  and  Category  (1)  (b),  unless the appropriate
Participating Bank Agreement has  been  duly executed on behalf of
RBM and the  Participating  Bank,  and  has  been  approved by the
Association; and
     (c)  in respect of SEDOM  credits  under Category (2), unless
SEDOM has submitted a  program  of  promotion  of the pilot credit
line, under Part A.2 of  the Project, satisfactory to the Planning
Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; the Borrower's
Ministry of Trade, Industry and  Tourism; and the Association, and
has  submitted  satisfactory   procedures   for  monitoring  SEDOM
credits.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  improve the marketing  of  smallholder farmers' crops by
supporting  the  Borrower's  efforts  to  develop  a multi-channel
marketing system; and
     (b)  improve resource utilization and productivity on estates
by  providing  medium-term  credit   to  intensify  and  diversify
production.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Line of Credit
1.   The financing of specific development projects through:
     (a)  loans to enterprises within the estate sub-sector; and
Page  11
     (b)  loans  for   investment   in   support  of  agricultural
processing and marketing.
2.   A  pilot  scheme  to   finance  the  short-  and  medium-term
requirements  of  rural  traders  specializing  in  the  purchase,
processing, storage  and  transportation  of  smallholder farmers'
crops.
Part B:   Institutional Development
     Strengthening of the  Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
the Malawi  Bureau  of  Standards  to  improve market information,
quality  control  and   regulatory  capability  through  technical
assistance, training, studies  and  the  acquisition of equipment,
office supplies and vehicles, including spare parts.
Part C:   Market Infrastructure
     Expansion and improvement of  rural  markets through the con-
struction and rehabilitation of about 16 district markets.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
               "15. The term  'Project  Agreement' has the meaning
          set forth  in  paragraph  (b)  of  Section  1.02  of the
          Development Credit Agreement."
     (3)  The  words  "the  Association  may,  by  notice  to  the
Borrower, terminate the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be  cancelled"  set forth at the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
               "or (e) by the date  specified in subparagraph 4 of
          Schedule 2  to  the  Project  Agreement, the Association
          shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit:
          (i)  have received no applications or requests permitted
               under subparagraphs (a)  or  (b) of said paragraph;
               or
         (ii)  have denied any such applications or requests.
          The  Association  may,   by   notice  to  the  Borrower,
          terminate  the  right  to  submit  such  applications or
          approvals  or  to  make   withdrawals  from  the  Credit
          Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
          or portion  of  the  Credit.  Upon  the  giving  of such
          notice, such amount or  portion  of  the Credit shall be
          cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Vehicles, spare parts,  equipment  and  office supplies shall
be bulked  together  in  bidding  packages  to  the maximum extent
practicable.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles, spare parts  and  equipment  estimated to cost less
than $100,000 per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $220,000, may be procured on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $100,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited  from  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the
Guidelines,  in  accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Association.
3.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, or may be carried
out by force account through the Ministry of Local Government.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts  are  to  be made out of Special
Account B, such procedures  shall  be  modified to ensure that the
two  conformed  copies  of  each  such  contract,  required  to be
furnished to  the  Association  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  (d) of
Appendix  1  to  the   Guidelines,   shall  be  furnished  to  the
Association prior  to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of
Special Account B in respect of each such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are  to  be  made  out  of  Special Account B, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of each such contract,  together with the other information
required  to  be   furnished   to   the  Association  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  experts  and consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience, and terms  and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the  Association.  Such experts and consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with principles and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association,  on  the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency",  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   Subject to  the  provisions  of  the  Project  Agreement, the
Borrower's Ministry  of  Agriculture  shall  have  overall respon-
sibility for the execution of the  Project. In order to ensure the
efficient implementation of  the  Project,  and  to coordinate the
activities of the various agencies involved in Project implementa-
tion, the Permanent Secretary of  MOA shall promptly establish the
Marketing Committee and the Estates and Agro-industries Committee.
2.   The Marketing Committee, which  shall oversee the implementa-
tion of Part A.2,  Part  B  and  Part  C  of  the Project, will be
chaired by the Secretary  for Agriculture and have representatives
of the Ministry of Finance; EP&D;  RBM; MBS; the Ministry of Local
Government; the Ministry  of  Trade,  Industry and Tourism; SEDOM;
ADMARC; and representatives  of  private  traders  as members. The
Planning Division of MOA will  provide secretariat services to the
Committee.
3.   The Estates and  Agro-Industries  Committee shall oversee the
implementation of Part  A.1  of  the  Project.  It  shall have the
Secretary to the Treasury,  as  Chairman,  and will include repre-
sentatives of  MOA;  EP&D;  the  Ministry  of  Trade, Industry and
Tourism; RBM;  the  Participating  Banks;  and  representatives of
Investment Enterprises as members.
4.   Participating Banks and SEDOM  shall submit quarterly reports
to the Estates  and  Agro-Industries  Committee  and the Marketing
Committee, respectively, and to the Association. All other Project
implementing agencies shall submit  semiannual progress reports to
the relevant  committee,  and  to  the  Association.  The Planning
Division of MOA shall, by January  30, 1992, prepare and submit to
the Association, for its  review,  a mid-term evaluation report of
the Project. MOA  shall  take  all  measures necessary to promptly
implement such corrective steps as  may be recommended and adopted
on  the  basis  of  the   Association's  review  of  the  mid-term
evaluation report.
Part B of the Project
5.   In order to  strengthen  the  Marketing  and Pricing Section,
and improve the effective functioning  of the Planning Division of
MOA, the Borrower shall, no  later  than  March 31, 1989, employ a
suitably qualified marketing advisor and fill the currently vacant
posts for four economists.
6.   The Planning Division shall  be  responsible for the training
program, including the determination of priority training needs of
the marketing and credit  staff,  and  traders, and appointment of
candidates for overseas and local training. With the assistance of
the  marketing  services  advisor  to  be  recruited  pursuant  to
paragraph 5 of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall submit to the
Association, for  its  review  and  comments,  an  annual training
program by March 31 of each year of Project implementation.
Page  14
7.   The Borrower shall ensure  that  MBS  shall, by no later than
October 31, 1989, assume full responsibility for the establishment
and  implementation  of  an  export  quality  control  system  for
agricultural products.
8.   The Marketing  and  Pricing  Section,  in  collaboration with
other relevant institutions,  shall  be responsible for developing
and  reviewing  marketing   policies   and  procedures  to  ensure
effective  operation  of  a  private  marketing  system.  In  this
context, the Borrower shall undertake an analysis of the impact of
its market reform measures, including  the effects of the existing
regulations requiring traders to  operate from designated markets.
The Borrower shall review  the  results  of this analysis with the
Association and  take  the  necessary  measures  to  implement any
agreed changes in the regulations by March 31, 1990. Moreover, the
Borrower shall  submit  to  the  Association,  for  its review and
comments,  any  subsequent  proposals  to  change  the  Borrower's
marketing regulations, policies and procedures to ensure that they
shall continue to be satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(1) (b)  and  (2)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Investment Projects in Part A  of  the  Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit  allocated from time to time to
the  Eligible  Category,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other evidence required, pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this  Schedule,  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
Page  15
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under the Eligible  Category, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shallreasonably request, 
furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the Eligible Category for Part A of the Project, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the  Association,  pursuant  to   Section   5.02  of  the  General
Conditions with respect to Part A  of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of  twice  the  amount  of  the  Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal, from the  Credit Account, of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit,  allocated  to  the Eligible
Category for Part A of  the  Project, shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               and
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the  Special  Account (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
                    the Association into the Special Account shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
Page  16
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and  6  (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal or for cancel-
lation  in  accordance  with   the  relevant  provisions  of  this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (3)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B and C of the Project  and to be financed out of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $200,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other evidence required, pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this  Schedule,  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
Page  17
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories  less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered  into  by the Association, pursuant
to Section 5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with respect to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter,  withdrawal,  from  the Credit
Account,  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the Eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               and
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)   provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
                     ciation may request; or
               (B)   deposit into the Special  Account (or, if the
                     Association shall so  request,  refund to the
                     Association) an amount equal to the amount of
                     such payment or  the  portion  thereof not so
                     eligible or justified. Unless the Association
                     shall otherwise agree,  no further deposit by
                     the  Association  into  the  Special  Account
                     shall be made until the Borrower has provided
                     such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
                     as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
Page  18
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and  6  (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal or for cancel-
lation  in  accordance  with   the  relevant  provisions  of  this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
