Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1966 MAI
                (Agricultural Marketing and Estate
                       Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      RESERVE BANK OF MALAWI
                       Dated March 31, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1966 MAI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  March   31,  1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  RESERVE  BANK OF
MALAWI (RBM).
     WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of  Malawi  (the Borrower) and the Asso-
ciation, the Association has  agreed  to  lend  to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to fourteen million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing  Rights  (SDR 14,200,000), on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only  on  condition  that  RBM  agrees to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by the RBM  Agreement  to  be  entered  into between the
Borrower and RBM, part of the  proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit  Agreement  will be made available to
RBM on terms and conditions set forth in said RBM Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS RBM, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Development Credit Agreement and in
the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have  the  respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of RBM
     Section 2.01. RBM declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out and cause
Participating Banks and SEDOM to  carry  out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices,  with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with the RBM Act.
     Section 2.02. (a)  RBM  shall  sign Participating Bank Agree-
ments with each Participating  Bank  and  the SEDOM Agreement with
SEDOM, pursuant to  Section  3.01  (c)  of  the Development Credit
Agreement, to enable  Participating  Banks  to  make Sub-loans and
SEDOM to make SEDOM credits  to Investment Enterprises for Invest-
ment Projects under Part A  of  the  Project. The terms and condi-
tions of Participating  Bank  Agreements  and  the SEDOM Agreement
shall be approved by  the  Association,  and  shall conform to the
terms and conditions stipulated in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (b)  No withdrawals shall  be  made  by  RBM  from the Credit
Account:
          (i)  for a Participating Bank unless:
               (A) the  appropriate  Participating  Bank Agreement
                   has been duly executed on behalf of RBM and the
                   Participating Bank; and
               (B) said  Participating  Bank  Agreement  has  been
                   approved by the Association; and
         (ii)  for SEDOM unless the  SEDOM Agreement has been duly
               executed on behalf of  RBM  and SEDOM, and has been
               approved by the Association.
     (c)  RBM shall cause Participating  Banks and SEDOM to submit
to the Association,  for  its  review  and  comments,  a sample of
appraisal reports  prepared  by  each  Participating  Bank  and by
SEDOM. The number of such appraisal reports shall be determined by
the Association.
     Section 2.03. (a) RBM undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree,  Participating  Banks  and SEDOM shall make
Sub-loans and SEDOM credits,  respectively, in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  RBM shall cause  each  Participating  Bank  and SEDOM to
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such
manner as to:
          (i)  protect the interests  of  the Association, RBM and
               the Participating Bank or SEDOM, as appropriate;
Page  3
         (ii)  comply with its  obligations  under this Agreement,
               the RBM  Agreement,  the  appropriate Participating
               Bank Agreement or the SEDOM Agreement; and
        (iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.04. RBM shall:
     (a)  cause Participating Banks  to  calculate financial rates
of return of Investment Projects,  for which Sub-loans are made or
proposed to be made in amounts exceeding $100,000, and ensure that
only those Investment Projects with  a financial rate of return of
not less than 12% are eligible for financing with Sub-loans;
     (b)  ensure that  the  Participating  Banks  shall  limit the
aggregate amount of agricultural  Sub-loans to any one small-scale
estate  Investment  Enterprise  to  an  amount  not  exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000;
     (c)  ensure that Participating Banks  will not make Sub-loans
in an amount exceeding  the  equivalent  of $250,000 in respect of
any  one  rainfed  estate  Investment  Project  or  in  an  amount
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000  in respect of any one estate
Investment Project for irrigation; and
     (d)  ensure that the aggregate  amount of Sub-loans to estate
Investment Enterprises, under Part  A.1  (a)  of the Project, with
annual sales exceeding the equivalent  of $200,000 each, shall not
exceed the equivalent of $5,500,000.
     Section 2.05. RBM shall  cause  Participating Banks and SEDOM
to carry out the  obligations  set  forth  in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and  land  acquisition) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.06.  RBM  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the RBM Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, RBM shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of assigning,  amending,  abrogating or waiving the RBM
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.07. (a) RBM shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and  under  the  RBM  Agreement,  and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  RBM shall promptly  inform  the  Association of any con-
dition which interferes or  threatens  to  interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project,  the  accomplishment  of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  RBM  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the RBM Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) RBM shall,  in conformity with Section 3.04
of the Development Credit Agreement, cause Participating Banks and
SEDOM to annually review  and,  if  necessary,  revise the rate of
interest charged on Sub-loans and SEDOM credits, respectively;
     (b)  RBM shall review the rate  of interest charged by RBM to
Participating  Banks,  under  Participating  Bank  Agreements, and
revise such rates to  reflect  any  changes in interest rates that
may be  made  on  Sub-loans,  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this
Section.
     Section 2.09. In order to carry  out Part A.2 of the Project,
RBM shall ensure that SEDOM  shall,  no later than March 31, 1989,
appoint a suitably qualified  Project manager, satisfactory to the
Association.
Page  4
     Section 2.10. (a) RBM shall cause:
          (i)  Participating Banks to  submit quarterly reports to
               the  Association  through  the  Estates  and  Agro-
               industries Committee,  pursuant  to  paragraph 4 of
               Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
         (ii)  SEDOM to submit  quarterly  reports to the Associa-
               tion, through the  Marketing Committee, pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit
               Agreement.
     (b)  The contents of  the  quarterly  reports shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. RBM  shall  maintain  records and accounts ade-
quate  to  reflect,  in  accordance  with  consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, the operations of RBM in respect
of Part A of the Project.
     Section 3.02. RBM shall  cause  Participating Banks and SEDOM
to maintain procedures and records, adequate to monitor and record
the progress of Part A of  the Project and each Investment Project
(including its cost and the  benefits  to be derived from it), and
to  reflect,  in  accordance  with  consistently  maintained sound
accounting practices  the  operations  and  financial condition of
Participating Banks and SEDOM  and  shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
     Section 3.03. RBM shall:
     (a)  (i)  have RBM's  records  and  accounts,  referred to in
               Section 3.01 of  this  Agreement, including Special
               Account A; and
         (ii)  cause each  Participating  Bank  and  SEDOM to have
               their accounts  and  financial  statements (balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements), for each financial year,
audited,  in  accordance   with  appropriate  auditing  principles
consistently applied, by  independent  auditors  acceptable to the
Association;
     (b)  furnish, and cause SEDOM  and each Participating Bank to
furnish, to the Association, as soon  as available but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
         (i)   certified copies  of  its  financial statements for
               such year as so audited;
        (ii)   the report of such audit  by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
Page  5
on the date  on  which  the  Development  Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and RBM hereunder  shall  terminate  on the earlier of
the following two dates:
        (i)    the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
       (ii)    a date fifteen (15)  years  after  the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify RBM of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made, under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement, shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party  to whom it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For RBM:
           Reserve Bank of Malawi
           Box 30063
           Lilongwe 3
           Malawi
           Cable address                    Telex:
                RESERVE                       44788
                Lilongwe, Malawi              44843
                                              44222
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of RBM  or  by  RBM  on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by its Governor, or by such  other  person or persons as RBM shall
designate in writing,  and  RBM  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
Page  6
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        RESERVE BANK OF MALAWI
                        By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               A. Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   The Sub-loans shall have maturities not exceeding twelve (12)
years and bear interest  at  a  rate  which shall conform with the
overall interest rate structure  in  the Borrower's territory. The
interest rate shall be subject to the provision of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1 of this Schedule,
maturities of Sub-loans shall  not  exceed  the useful life of the
assets financed.
3.   Sub-loans under Part A.1  (a)  of  the  Project shall be made
only to:
     (a)  Investment Enterprises, with  established  rights to the
land on which the  Investment  Project  will  be carried out, with
competent  management  which  can  demonstrate  that  the proposed
Investment Project is technically feasible and financially viable;
and
     (b)  to finance the establishment of new, or the expansion of
existing, estate  crops,  land  improvements, including irrigation
and drainage, and the  establishment  of wood lots, improvement of
infrastructure, purchase, rehabilitation  and  maintenance of farm
equipment and machinery, and the purchase of livestock.
4.   Sub-loans under Part A.1 (b) of the Project shall be made:
     (a)  only to  Investment  Enterprises  with appropriate valid
licenses and  permits,  competent  management,  and for Investment
Projects that  are  technically  feasible  and financially viable;
and
     (b)  to finance the development and improvement of processing
equipment, including maize  and  rice  mills, cotton gins, cassava
processing plants, oil extraction  facilities, and the acquisition
of transport equipment and grading facilities.
5.   Except as the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, RBM shall
cause Participating  Banks  to  obtain,  in  respect of Sub-loans,
Page  7
inter alia, the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that:
          (i)  the goods and services  to  be  financed out of the
               proceeds of  the  Credit  shall  be  purchased at a
               reasonable price,  also  taking  into account other
               relevant factors such  as  time  of delivery, effi-
               ciency and reliability  of  the goods, availability
               of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
               and, in the case  of  services,   their quality and
               the competence of the parties rendering them; and
         (ii)  such goods and  services  shall be used exclusively
               in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association, if the Association  shall so request, such goods,
sites, works, plants and  construction  included in the Investment
Project, the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents;
     (d)  require that:
          (i)  the  Investment  Enterprise   shall  take  out  and
               maintain with responsible  insurers such insurance,
               against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
               consistent with sound business practice; and
         (ii)  without any  limitation  upon  the  foregoing, such
               insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident  to  the
               acquisition, transportation  and  delivery of goods
               financed out of the  proceeds  of the Credit to the
               place  of  use   or   installation.  Any  indemnity
               thereunder shall  be  made  payable  in  a currency
               freely  usable  by  the  Investment  Enterprise  to
               replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or RBM
shall  reasonably  request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and  the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise, and the benefits  to  be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Bank.
             B. Terms and Conditions of SEDOM Credits
1.   Short-term SEDOM credits,  with  maturities  of not less than
three (3) months and not  more  than  twelve (12) months, shall be
made to finance:
     (a)  working capital for seasonal commodity trading;
     (b)  working capital for  rural  multi-product trading, based
on the purchase of commodities  in  the rural areas, and supply of
consumer goods to the rural areas; and
     (c)  working capital for the  purchase of chemical fumigants,
bags and other items required for storage.
2.   Medium-term SEDOM credits, with  maturities between three (3)
to five (5) years, shall be made to finance:
Page  8
     (a)  the purchase of small processing mills, drying, cleaning
and  grading  equipment,  weighing  scales,  moisture  meters  and
related civil works;
     (b)  the construction  or  rehabilitation  of rural commodity
storage facilities owned or rented to commodity traders; and
     (c)  the  purchase  of   trucks   suitable   for  rural  road
conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    A. Terms and Conditions of
                   Participating Bank Agreements
1.   Participating Banks shall repay  to  RBM the principal amount
of withdrawals made under Participating Bank Agreements:
     (a)  in  accordance  with   schedules   conforming  with  the
amortization schedules  of  Sub-loans  made  by each Participating
Bank to Investment Enterprises under  Part A.1 (a) of the Project,
with annual sales  exceeding  the  equivalent  of $200,000 and all
Investment Enterprises under Part A.1 (b) of the Project; and
     (b)  in five annual installments, on all other Sub-loans made
to other Investment Enterprises.
2.   Subject to any review  that  may  be  made by RBM pursuant to
Section 2.08 (b) of this  Agreement, Participating Banks shall pay
interest at the rate of:
     (a)  Nine percent (9%)  per  annum  on amounts withdrawn from
the Credit Account for  Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises, under
Part A.1 (a) of the  Project,  with  annual sales of less than the
equivalent of $200,000; and
     (b)  11% per  annum  for  Sub-loans  to  all other Investment
Enterprises.
3.   When presenting a  Sub-loan  to  RBM,  the Participating Bank
shall furnish to RBM  an  application,  in  a form satisfactory to
RBM, together with:
     (a)  a  description  of  the  Investment  Enterprise  and  an
appraisal of the  Investment  Project,  including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan;
     (b)  the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan;
     (c)  a calculation of the  financial  rates  of return of the
Investment Project in the case  of a Sub-loan in amounts exceeding
$100,000;
     (d)  a  copy  of  the  appraisal  report  of  the  Investment
Project; and
     (e)  such other information as RBM shall reasonably request.
4.   Except as  RBM  and  the  Participating  Bank shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests  made  pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 3 of this  Schedule  shall  be presented to RBM on or
before December 31, 1995.
            B. Terms and Conditions of SEDOM Agreement
1.   SEDOM shall repay to  RBM  the  principal amount of the SEDOM
Agreement and interest thereon as follows:
     (a)  all short-term credit, in full, on the thirteenth month;
Page  9
and
     (b)  all medium-term credit,  in  five annual installments of
principal and interest.
2.   SEDOM shall pay interest at the  rate to be determined by RBM
which shall be at least 3% per annum on amounts withdrawn from the
Credit Account for all SEDOM Credits.
