Page  1
October 1, 1992
The  Governor
Reserve Bank of Malawi
Lilongwe
Malawi
      Re:   Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project
            (Cr. 1966-MAI)
            Amendment
Dear Sir:
      I refer to (a) the Development Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Malawi (the Borrower) and the International Development
Association (the Association) and (b) the Project Agreement between
the Association and Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM), for the above-
referenced Project, dated March 31, 1989.  I also refer to the
exchange of views between representatives of the Borrower and the
Association in July 1992, proposing the inclusion of Investment and
Development Fund Limited as a Participating Bank and the partial use
of Credit funds for seasonal credit.
      Having reviewed the recommendations, we have proposed to amend
the Development Credit Agreement as noted in the attached copy of
our letter of even date herewith, to the Honorable Minister of
Finance.  It is therefore necessary that the Project Agreement also
be amended as follows.
1.    Section 2.04 (d)
      The amount "$200,000" in the second line is deleted and
replaced by the amount "$50,000".
2.    Schedule 1
2.1   Paragraph 1 is amended to read:
      "Sub-loans, other than those for seasonal credit referred to
      in sub-paragraph 3(c) of this Schedule, shall have maturities
      not exceeding twelve (12) years and bear interest at a rate
      which shall conform with the overall interest rate structure
      in the Borrower's territory.  The interest rate shall be
      subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement."
2.2   In Paragraph 3 the word "and" after sub-paragraph (a) is
deleted, the word "and" is added at the end of sub-paragraph (b),
and a new sub-paragraph (c) is added to read:
      "(c) to finance seasonal credit, repayable in less than a
      twelve-month period, for the purchase of inputs for crops
      (other than tobacco) and livestock and incremental working
      capital (for seasonal commodity trading, rural multi-product
      trading and the purchase of items required for storage,
      including chemical fumigants and bags) by enterprises with
      annual sales of less than MK 200,000."
3.    Schedule 2
3.1   Sub-paragraph 2 (a)
      The amount "$200,000" in line 3 is deleted and replaced by the
amount  "$50,000" and the word "and" at the end of sub-paragraph
2(a) is deleted.
3.2   Sub-paragraph 2 (b)
Page  2
      The  "."  at the end of sub-paragraph 2 (b) is deleted and
replaced by ";  and", and a new sub-paragraph 2(c) is added to read:
      "(c) at least 3% per annum, as determined by RBM, on sub-loans
      by Investment and Development Fund Limited for seasonal credit
      and medium-term credit under Part A(1) of the Project."
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of
Reserve Bank of Malawi, by signing, dating and returning to us the
enclosed copy of this letter.
Very truly yours,
Stephen M. Denning
Director
Southern Africa Department
Confirmed
RESERVE BANK OF MALAWI
By:
    Authorized Representative
Date:  October 8, 1992
