                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 31390-STP

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-34290)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                                TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF

                                      SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE

                                                 FOR A

            PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                                              June 29, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
AFC15
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective May 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = Dobra
                                            Db 1 = US$ 0.000103
                                           US$ 1 = Db 9699.4

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -      December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       African Development Bank
ASYCUDA    Automated System for Customs Data
CEMAC      Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CET        Common External Tariff
EITI       Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EMAE       Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (Utility Company)
EMOLVE     Palm-Oil Development Company
ENAMED     Empresa Nacional de Medicamentos (Public Drug Company)
ENCAR      Empresa Nacional de Carne (Public Meat Processing Company)
ENCO       Empresa Nacional de Combustivel e Oleos (Petroleum Distribution Company)
EU         European Union
FIAS       Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FM         Financial Management
GCB-TA     Governance Capacity Building Technical Assistance Credit
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA        International Development Agency
IDF        Institutional Development Fund
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INE        National Institute of Statistics
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MoPF       Ministry of Planning and Finance
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PE         Public Enterprise
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PIP        Public Investment Program
PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SPA        Special Program of Assistance
TTL        Task Team Leader
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USD        United States Dollar
VAT        Value Added Tax
WAEMU      Western African Economic and Monetary Union
WCO        World Customs Organization
WTO        World Trade Organization


                                Vice President:         Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director           A. David Craig
                              Sector Manager            Robert R. Blake
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Dorsati Madani

             DEMOCRATIC REEPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE

             PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TA CREDIT (PRM-TA)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Outputs by Component                                                    22
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            28

Project ID: P073904                                                  Project Name: Public Resource Management - TA
Team Leader: Dorsati Madani                                          TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Public Resource Management - TA                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-34290
   Country/Department: SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Tax
                            policy and administration (P); Regional integration (P);
                            Macroeconomic management (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring
                            and privatization (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/04/2000                                     Effective: 02/21/2001                02/21/2001
     Appraisal: 08/01/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/02/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
                                           AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Not applicable.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake                                Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Dorsati Madani                                 Dorsati Madani
ICR Primary Author:             Dorsati Madani; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Public Resource Management Technical Assistance Project (PRM-TA) (US$2.5 million Credit) was to
provide necessary technical support, training, goods and equipment to meet three distinct objectives: (i)
implement the policy measures that were to be carried out under the government's reform program
supported by the Public Resource Management Credit (PRMC); (ii) carry out sectoral, sub-sectoral and
specific studies needed towards the preparation of its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP); and (iii)
develop the agenda for macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms. While the name of the credit
(PRM-TA) suggests that all three objectives of the credit are fully associated with the reforms included in
the PRMC, only the first objective of the PRM-TA directly supported the PRMC reforms. Support for the
development of the PRSP and the agenda for macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms were provided in
conjunction with TA for the PRMC reforms to strengthen the overall policy environment of the country.

The objectives were important to the achievement of the country's economic and social development. They
were also clear, realistic, and timely for addressing the needs of the Borrower. Sao Tome and Principe's
economic and social indicators were negatively affected by some of the basic challenges that afflict many
low income small island states. These challenges include: remoteness and insularity, susceptibility to
natural disasters, limited institutional capacity, a narrow resource base, vulnerability to external shocks,
limited access to external capital, and entrenched poverty. Given that Sao Tome and Principe's resource
base and revenue potential were very limited and essentially tied to subsistence or informal sector activities
and an export sector based on one major activity, cocoa, the government needed to develop and implement
a medium-term program aimed at improving resource mobilization as well as the efficiency and equity of
public resource allocation, within a solid macroeconomic framework and well-defined sector development
priorities, with clear poverty reduction objectives.

On the other hand, the Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the joint credits PRMC/PRM-TA only
dedicates one brief paragraph to the TA project, noting that it will finance a Study Fund to carry out policy
reform studies; prepare sectoral strategies; and develop simulation models. As a result, the objectives were
not clearly translated in application in the sense that during preparation they were not programmed in a
logical framework, with clear milestones, and sequencing of activities, that would match with the reform
schedule supported by PRMC or the development of the PRS document.

The TA project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the country's
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). One of the components of the project aimed to support
PRMC, which was complementing ongoing reforms financed under the Institutional Development Fund
(IDF) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), and
assist the São Tomean authorities to implement a set of first-generation policy reforms. These reforms were
needed to consolidate and accelerate the government's efforts and move Sao Tome and Principe towards a
new phase of economic and social development. The government recognized the Bank as a privileged
partner, well positioned to provide sound advice and extend the dialogue to other development partners.

While no specific risk factors were identified for PRM-TA, the following risk factors were identified in the
MOP that covered the joint credits PRMC/PRM-TA: (i) low institutional capacity; (ii) limited donor
commitment and lack of coordination; and (iii) a narrow private sector. To manage the above risks, the
government planned to: (a) strengthen donor coordination including, holding a Donor Round Table meeting
in October 2000; and (b) develop local institutional capacity.




                                                       - 2 -

While the borrower could identify the needs and program for them, the project was demanding for the
Borrower in the area of procurement and financial management. The Credit was responsive to the Borrower
circumstances and development priorities. For example, the Bank adjusted the programming of the project
based on the assessment of the needs, and allocated US$500,000 of the credit to petroleum TA needs that
arose half way through the implementation of the credit.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the following components:

l Strengthening the Borrower's capacity, through the provision of technical advisory services and
    training and acquisition of equipment to implement expenditure management reforms, expenditure
    monitoring and control measures, civil service reforms and private sector development policies.

l Carrying out policy reform studies on the impact of structural reforms on the Borrower's economy,
    especially on trade liberalization, tax system, exchange rate policy, diversification of agriculture
    production, tourism, fisheries, public utilities, private sector development, fiscal reform, banking
    reform and financial sectors, social sector and poverty reduction measures

l Carrying out research on further constraints to the growth of the Borrower's economy.


3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The ICR
deems the quality at entry to be marginally unsatisfactory.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government priorities and met the critical
needs of the macroeconomic sector. During preparation, the Bank took into account the country's low
capacity and incorporated flexibility in the project design in order to ensure that the country would be able
to implement policy reform work, and undertake sectoral, sub-sectoral, and specific studies which would
provide input to the PRSP, and also develop the agenda for macro economic and sectoral policy reforms.
The team developed a flexible design for the credit by assigning some US$500,000 as unallocated funds.
This feature became highly useful in assisting the country advance during implementation. The ICR views
these aspects as satisfactory.

On the other hand, the project was burdened by several weaknesses:

l The preparation process did not include a logframe for the credit so that internal monitoring and
    evaluation were not well programmed in terms of project outputs and outcomes.

l While the project was aimed at assisting the government in implementing its reform program, the




                                                       - 3 -

    activities of the component supporting PRMC reforms were not fully aligned with the PRMC reform
    content and timing. Some of the studies and other provision of TA (international and national) should
    have been conducted at the identification and preparation stages of PRMC in order to provide the
    necessary information and assistance needed to ensure timely, and well sequenced implementation of
    PRMC reforms and successful outcomes.

l The credit underestimated the extent of the capacity building needs of the administration and its reform
    program, which went beyond the capacities of the US$2.5 million Study Fund.

l The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was functional but weak in the early stages of implementation
    as its staff was not given adequate training on bank financial and procurement procedures at the launch
    of the project.

l The political risk and weakness in the civil service in undertaking the reforms were underestimated.


The flexibility of the credit compensated for some of the weaknesses listed above. In light of these factors,
the overall quality at entry is rated marginally unsatisfactory. However, in the absence of `marginal' ratings
for the ICR, the ICR team is constrained to give an Unsatisfactory rating in Section 2 (Principal
Performance Ratings).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The project supported the government to meet the three distinct development objectives of the
credit by providing technical support, training, goods and equipment. Only the first objective of the
PRM-TA directly supported the PRMC reforms. The PRM-TA also provided support for the two other
objectives (development of the PRSP and the development of an agenda for macro-economic and sectoral
policy reforms) to improve the overall policy environment of the country.

With its flexible design, it also supported the government during the highly sensitive early period of the
nascent petroleum sector by providing timely and responsive support to lay the early foundation for
institutional capacity building in the sector. The positive developments in the petroleum sector would not
have materialized in the absence of the PRM-TA credit.

Overall, the credit became an important vehicle for policy dialogue and institutional capacity building in the
framework of a small state. These policy dialogues engaged the Ministry of Planning and Finance on
public resource management, the poverty reduction strategy, and privatization of SOEs; the Ministry of
Natural Resources on petroleum sector revenue management and transparency issues, telecommunications
regulations and utilities reform and privatization; the Ministry of Justice on reform of the institutional and
legal environments; the Ministry of Commerce on private sector development and business environment;
and the national PRSP team on the overall poverty reduction approach, its goals, its associated costs and
the methodology to monitor and evaluate its output and outcomes.




                                                      - 4 -

The major outcomes of the project are the following:

Objective I:      Helping the government implement policy measures under its reform program
                  which was supported by the PRMC

Marginally unsatisfactory

The first objective of the PRM-TA was to support the PRMC reforms. However, the implementation of
the reforms included in the PRMC program was uneven due to political instability and lack of political will.
Consequently, PRM-TA could not be used to support the full spectrum of the PRMC program. Where
Government launched reform measures - such as in the fiscal reform and management and resource
mobilization ­ the TA credit supported the reform process. In other areas where reform efforts were never
launched ­ such as the rural sector, and many of the private sector reforms ­ the TA was not used.

Fiscal reform and management, resource mobilization:

The credit contributed to the development and implementation of reforms leading to improved economic
management and revenue collection:

l Overall, tax collection increased from 17% of GDP in 1999 to 20.4% in 2004, through: (i) improved
    coordination in tax payer identification (ID numbers) and registration; (ii) implementation of reforms
    suggested by a study of the directorate of taxation to improve productivity and tax collection; and (iii)
    improved customs management and revenue collections due to ASYCUDA and better valuation
    methodology (import tax revenue collection increased from 7.7% of total government revenues in 2001
    to 11% in 2003) (see Annex 8).

l The institutional and legal business environment of the country is expected to improve once the new
    tax and investment laws, currently at the National Assembly, become law. As outlined in Annex 8, the
    credit supported fully or partially the update of these laws through Foreign Investment Advisory
    Service (FIAS) and national TA. These laws will modernize the fiscal and investment framework of
    the country. The delay in the adoption and implementation of these laws was political as multiple
    changes in governments did not facilitate the process of policy making, especially on such a sensitive
    issue. It is now expected that the laws will be adopted and implemented as they are also part of a new
    IMF PRGF program.

l The public sector engagement in the economy was reduced by privatizing some public enterprises.
    This allowed for better control of budget expenditures. Several public sector enterprises were sold,
    liquidated or were in the process of being fully or partially privatized. The TA funded assistance to the
    privatization working group to prepare and follow up on the `dossiers' for the privatization process. It
    also funded a review of the electricity and water company to assess its viability and potential for
    privatization in the short to medium run.

l Economic management improved through better public expenditure planning (procurement and public
    investment program (PIP)), budget implementation, and fiscal management oversight. The creation of
    a dedicated unit to debt management contributed to this progress. The PRM-TA financed consultants to
    assist this review and reform process, including training for different services within the MoPF and
    Central Bank.

l The government continues to realign public expenditures to primary sectors (health and education) as



                                                      - 5 -

    part of the overall reform process of aligning government budget with PRSP goals. To facilitate this
    process the credit financed public expenditure reviews in education and health to study the existing
    sectoral budget processes and expenditures and provide recommendations for better use of funds (see
    Annex 8).

Objective II:     Carrying out sectoral and specific studies needed for the preparation of the PRSP

Satisfactory

The credit supported the development of the first full PRSP document. This support included financing the
PRPS coordinating unit and consultants to prepare the five thematic studies and lead the thematic groups
that are at the base of the five action pillars of the PRSP. These five thematic studies, together with a
poverty analysis ­ which was also partially financed by the PRM-TA credit- formed the analytical base for
the assessment of the socio-economic and political situation in the country and provided policy suggestions
that led to the formulation of the full PRSP. The five thematic groups and the coordinating unit developed
the complete document, the monitoring and evaluation indicators and methodology and provided an
estimate of the cost of the strategy. They led extensive consultations with all social groups in different
regions of Sao Tome island and on Principe island (see Annex 8, Component 2 for a list of the studies).

The first full PRSP was officially adopted by the government in a national forum in December 2002 and
promulgated by the President in January 2003. A new unit was created in 2004 in the Ministry of Planning
and Finance (MoPF) to foster PRSP implementation and monitoring of its results. To support its
monitoring efforts, the PRM-TA has also funded expertise and training to INE to improve the data bases
necessary for the PRSP M&E (see Annex 8).

The document's strategic vision is viewed as the development strategy for the country. Its policy priorities
are being reflected in the regular budgetary and public investment decisions of the country since the budget
year 2003. The PRSP was presented to the Board of the World Bank on April 21, 2005, and garnered very
positive support of the Directors who backed its approach and its goals and encouraged the government to
implement it fully. The Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) considers that the PRSP provides a reliable
framework for reducing poverty in Sao Tome and Principe. They considered the document as a credible
but highly ambitious strategy.

Objective III:    Developing the agenda for macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms

Satisfactory

The project's flexibility and focus in accommodating the country analytical and capacity building needs in
the petroleum and justice (legal and regulatory) sectors led to highly positive outcomes for the country.

In the nascent petroleum sector:

In the absence of the PRM-TA the outcomes described below would most likely not have materialized. The
credit funded a number of international and national consultancies and provided material support to assist
the government to address urgent policy, negotiations and capacity building needs permitting (see Annex 8):


·   Better financial terms for STP in four existing petroleum contracts. The credit funded consultants to
    help the government understand the economic ramifications of existing contracts and renegotiate four


                                                        - 6 -

    old contracts to reach better financial terms for the country.

·   More transparent and informed decisions related to the petroleum bid analysis for the nine blocs
    managed by the Joint Development Zone (November 2003-April 2004) to ensure best negotiation
    outcomes for the country. The credit funded national and international consultants to assist the
    government in analyzing the geological information, develop economic and financial potentials of the
    sector, review bids and the qualifications of the bidding companies, thus making a more informed
    decision about which companies and bid offers to choose.

·   Adoption of a best practice law on Petroleum Revenue Management that will affect the future
    economic development of the country. PRM-TA partially funded international consultants to develop,
    present and discuss a draft law with the National assembly, the Government and the National
    Petroleum Agency. The law was approved by the National Assembly in November 2004, and was
    promulgated by the President of the Republic end 2004. It is currently being implemented with the
    support of the new World Bank GCB-TA credit.

·   Establishment of the legal and institutional framework to manage the sector related activities.
    PRM-TA financially supported the creation and activities of the original core team of national experts
    to deal with the sectoral issues in 2002. This involved provision of international expertise, training for
    the national team, and materials. This team was instrumental in analyzing and overseeing sectoral
    activities. This ad hoc group was formalized by the decree law creating the National Petroleum
    Agency (promulgated in June 2004) to supervise and regulate sectoral institutions as well as create
    more cadres. National officials are now better equipped to address legal and industrial issues related to
    petroleum.

·   Enhanced transparency and governance by building national capacity and supporting policy dialogue
    on the petroleum issue. The PRM-TA co-sponsored (with UNDP) two 2-day petroleum
    training/capacity building seminars that informed and educated national and local policy makers as
    well as national and international Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). This involved funding
    international experts to provide studies and presentations at the conferences. The first conference (held
    in December 2003) familiarized Sao Tomeans with the basic information about the petroleum industry,
    expectations regarding timing and cost of exploration, points and aspects to be covered in a petroleum
    contract, projections of time and amount of monies Sao Tome could hope to receive. The second
    seminar (held in March 2004), informed Sao Tomeans on issues related to petroleum revenue
    management.

In the public sector (justice / regulations / governance):

·   The credit supported the development of a strategy for the reforms of the state. This new strategy will
    help the state change its overall administrative structure to become more efficient in advance of the new
    petroleum era. It also financed the drafting of a new Code of Administrative Procedure.

·   Modernization of the overall institutional, legal and business framework of the country in view of the
    upcoming petroleum era. The credit fully financed or co-financed updating a large number of outdated
    (often colonial) legal codes in the legal (criminal and civil), economic (and commercial) and
    institutional (local and electoral) areas. The credit also facilitated training for some of the judges and
    court staffs, accounting tribunal, and office of the Attorney General (see Annex 8 ­ Component 3).
    This effort is continuing with the support of the new justice sector IDF.



                                                      - 7 -

l The newly adopted telecommunication laws and regulatory authority is the base for the supervision of
    the opening of the market to competition by end 2005. PRM-TA funded technical assistance to help
    the government develop and implement the telecommunications regulatory authority. Authority was
    created and its capacity was enhanced through training.

4.2 Outputs by components:

See table in Annex 8 for the list of outputs and their impacts.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. The project resulted in substantial institutional development impact. Perennial capacity has
been strengthened in public resource management, justice, and basic capacity has been established in the
nascent petroleum sector.

·   Public resource management and expenditure continue to be strengthened and made more transparent,
   especially with the government adopting the Petroleum Revenue Management Law and the principles
   of the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) petroleum revenue initiative in 2004. The
   petroleum law is considered a best practice law. The government has centralized the revenue and
   external financial proceeds (except for some grants), and has improved control over its expenditures.
   The Government launched the Office of the Auditor General in mid-2003 to audit government
   budgetary performance (the credit provided some material support to facilitate the launch of this
   office). Review of the process of execution of the public investments (supported by the credit) has led
   to improvements in public procurement procedures of the Public Investment Program (PIP). This
   review has also led to the adoption of better mechanisms of control and follow up for the PIP. The
   government has also improved tax and tariff collections by increasing tax collection (PRM-TA
   supported reviews of system and provided materials and training), by upgrading customs valuations
   (including ASYCUDA training) and by introducing new taxes, and improving methodology to identify
   tax-payers.

·  Reforms at the Finance Directorate have been taking shape. Three new directorates: Tax, Budget and
   Treasury, were created and are functional. All three directorates have received technical assistance
   from the Bank and other donors to assist them in capacity building (for instance advisory services,
   training and provision of materials) and the reform of their budget related procedures. The budget is
   prepared following consultation with spending departments, but is still done on a yearly basis instead of
   within a medium-term expenditure framework. The 2003 and 2004 budgets were linked to the policy
   priorities of the PRSP and the macro-economic targets were agreed to with international partners.

·  In the justice sector, the country has adopted of a number of revised laws affecting the institutional and
   legal framework. This modernization was accompanied by training for the judicial clerks and some of



                                                     - 8 -

    the judges to improve their professional skills.

l Petroleum Sector development. Section 4.1, Objective II includes description of the institutional
    capacity building started with the assistance of PRM-TA.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The rapid developments in the nascent petroleum sector starting in 2002 crystallized the complete lack of
national capacity and the urgent need to address critical policy, negotiations and analytical issues related to
the sector. The government requested assistance from the Bank. The Bank responded rapidly and
flexibly, allocating the PRM-TA's unallocated balance to the provision of international and national
technical assistance and the building of sustainable domestic institutional capacity. This assistance was
further anchored in direct WB advisory support and continuous and open sectoral policy discussions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

·   Limited capacity. The implementation of the project experienced delays due to lack of institutional,
    technical and administrative capacity of the civil service. Even though the project was meant to loosen
    this capacity constraint, it was not programmed closely enough from the onset to fully achieve this
    goal.

·   Unstable political environment. A major constraint to achieving the Development Objectives (DOs) in
    a timely manner was the unstable political environment ­ with six changes of governments or
    government reshuffles since 2001 causing weeks or months of uncertainty and stalemate in the
    administration. These ministerial changes and stalemate in turn made it more difficult to deliver TA
    and build capacity to achieve the three objectives of the credits, especially in relation to supporting the
    implementation of the PRMC reforms (first objective of the credit).

·   Uneven government commitment to the reform program of the PRMC affected the performance of the
    TA component designed to support the reforms. The government commitment was not consistent in all
    sectors. The tendency on the part of the government was to focus on specific conditions for meeting
    PRMC tranches. For example, while the commitment was strong in macroeconomics, on other areas
    such as land reform, rural development, and private sector development the commitment was lacking.
    This in turn affected what would get done in the TA credit.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Management Effectiveness. While the coordinator of the project was capable, highly motivated and
performed well, she was burdened by the fact that there was no sufficient staffing in the PIU. In the early
stages of the project, there was no procurement specialist in the PIU and the project coordinator had to be
advised mid-stream during the credit about the updates needed in procurement/financial management
procedures by the Banks' procurement/financial management specialists. In the third year, the project
coordinator and other relevant staff were trained in financial management and procurement in conjunction
with the preparation of the Governance Capacity Building (GCB-TA) credit which became effective on
February 3, 2005. There were also some implementation problems due to delays in the delivery of reports
by consultants.




                                                     - 9 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

As of February 28, 2005, the actual disbursement under the credit was US$2.64 million (1.95 million
SDR) compared to the appraisal estimate of US$2.5 million (1.95 million SDR). The superior dollar value
is due to the recent devaluation of the dollar against SDR, which is the legal currency of the credit
agreement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. A number of components and subcomponents supported by the project are likely to be sustainable.
The newly launched Justice sector IDF and GCB-TA credit will provide further support to several of these
ongoing activities, thus enhancing their sustainability:

·   The revenue mobilization and management reforms have been absorbed into the institutional and
    procedural structure of the government. For instance, the reforms at the Customs administration and
    tax directorates appear to have become embedded. To a lesser degree, so have the basic tenets of
    expenditure management. One major component of the new GCB-TA Credit is dedicated to continue
    to support the public finance management reforms and capacity building with a view to the upcoming
    petroleum era. The envisaged reforms include new budgetary nomenclature, accounting plan and
    establishment of a new integrated computerized budgetary system.

·   The PRSP unit, whose creation was supported by the credit has been elevated to the PRSP observatory
    within the directorate of planning in the MoPF to strengthen the implementation of the PRSP. The
    continued implementation of the PRSP goals and actions, its monitoring and future update of the PRSP
    (including an analysis of the impacts of "the petroleum economy") will be further supported by the
    GCB-TA Credit in coordination with UNDP.

·   Support for National Institute of Statistics (INE) comprised helping to complete surveys, providing
    material support and training staff in methodology. This support is expected to impact the overall
    capacity of the directorate. This activity is further supported in the GCB-TA Credit in tandem with
    support for PRPS implementation and evaluation.

·   The petroleum unit supported by the credit has evolved into the National Petroleum Agency (by decree
    law). The institutional capacity building in the sector continues to receive technical, advisory and
    material support through GCB-TA credit.

·   The petroleum capacity building and petroleum laws ­ adopted in late 2004- are also sustainable
    policy/economic components for the country. During the drafting of the law, lengthy policy discussions
    took place with regards to the content and policy implications of the law between the government, the
    central bank and the National Assembly to ensure understanding by and agreement of policy makers.
    The implementation of the petroleum laws and sector related capacity building will continue to be
    supported by the GCB-TA credit through technical and advisory assistance as well as training for
    policy makers.

·   The update of laws, which once finalized through promulgation of the new laws and implemented, will



                                                     - 10 -

    play a key role in creating a modern legal and institutional framework for the economy and private
    (domestic and foreign) investment. The Ministry of Justice is now pursuing its reform program with the
    assistance of an IDF grant approved in October 2004. The IDF will include: (i) capacity building for
    the magistrates and personnel working directly in the courts; (ii) updating further laws such as the
    civil/commercial laws; and (iii) improving conflict resolution methods.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Marginally unsatisfactory. The identification process correctly focused on critical gaps and opportunities
for interventions in Sao Tome and Principe. The project was consistent with the CAS and government's
development priorities. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during
preparation and appraisal. On these counts, the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and
appraisal of the project was satisfactory.

However, the Bank's overall performance in lending is rated marginally unsatisfactory, based on the
following factors: (i) the credit was designed as a study fund with no direct connection between component
(activities) and funds; (ii) a complete logical framework was not developed during the preparation process
of the Credit for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and to capture progress; (iii) the activities of the
PRM-TA component supporting the PRMC were not programmed in close coordination with the policy
measures included in the PRMC; (iv) on procurement and financial management (FM), the Bank should
have done a better job of identifying the weaknesses and training the counterpart staff; and (v) the political
risk and weakness in the civil service were underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. In spite of limited supervisory resources, the Bank's performance during the implementation
of the project was broadly satisfactory. Over the four years of project implementation, there were seven
supervision missions, with an average of about two missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was
very cordial and productive.

·   Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
    benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government to problems with project execution and
    facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The Project Status
    Reports (PSRs) rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development
    objectives and project implementation based on mission findings, updating ratings when deemed
    necessary.

·   In late 2002, the development in the nascent petroleum sector led to urgent advisory, technical
    assistance and capacity building needs in the country. The supervision team responded quickly, and
    with flexibly to address the country's immediate needs through the end of the project.

·   Weak preparation of the PIU led to annual external audits identifying some problems in procurement
    and financial management. The Task Team Leader (TTL) addressed these issues in coordination with


                                                      - 11 -

    the PIU and the WB audit team to ensure implementation satisfactory to WB.

·   As noted above, the preparation process did not include a logframe for the credit so that internal
    monitoring and evaluation were not well programmed in terms of project outcome and output. Early
    monitoring and evaluation were based on inputs, outputs and financial reports provided by the
    coordinator and reviewed by the TTL. Noting the weakness of this approach, in 2003 the TTL
    responded proactively by retrofitting some indicators to complement the early M&E approach. In view
    of this M&E weakness, the TTL rated the M&E as unsatisfactory in the last two PSRs. The TTL
    also developed guidelines for financing training, especially training abroad.

l Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps
    and timetable to try and put the project back on track and pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to
    the project's likely development impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Marginally Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was marginally satisfactory. However, in the
absence of `marginal' ratings for the ICR, the ICR team is constrained to give a Satisfactory rating in
Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings) and Annex 6.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory during preparation of the project. It was
committed to the objectives of the project. The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project
team on a continual basis, with full cooperation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Marginally Satisfactory

On the positive side, when the government was clearly in need of TA in petroleum sector, it was very
proactive in seeking help from the Bank to hire international consultants and provide training for nationals.
Further, in public finance, directors of budget, taxation, and customs were proactive in improving their
services by applying for TA funds for purchasing equipment, providing training to their staff, and hiring
international consultants.

On the other hand, the government was not consistent in its commitment to all sectors. As mentioned in
Section 5, the tendency on the part of the government was to focus on specific conditions for meeting
PRMC tranches or in specific sectors. This narrowly focused commitment, in turn, affected the use and
outcome of the TA Credit. Further, the delay in providing counterpart funds slowed down implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory

The performance of PIU which coordinated the project was overall satisfactory in supervising the
implementation of the project, programming activities and reporting results. It operated in close
coordination with the senior management of MoPF, and was receptive to the Bank's advice, and highly



                                                     - 12 -

collaborative with respect to meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines. In the absence of a logframe
and early FM/procurement training, the coordinator provided regular reports on inputs and outputs and
financial status of the credit.

The process of launching audits experienced some delays for two of the audit years, but was eventually
performed to the Bank's satisfaction. The 2002 audit was launched late (in August 2003) due to political
instability, especially the January constitutional dispute between the National Assembly and the Presidency,
the April demonstrations and the July coup. The process for the audit of the year 2003 was launched in
December 2003. However, due to lack of response by audit companies (only one response), the Bank
recommended that a second bid be launched in March 2004. This was promptly done by the project
coordinator in April 2004, under the direct supervision of the Procurement team at the Bank. The 2003
Audit was received in September 2004. The Bank's specialists reviewed it and deemed it satisfactory. The
Audit for 2004 was received in June 2005 (within the appropriate six-month deadline) and is being
reviewed by the WB audit team.

These audits flagged the weaknesses in FM and procurement already discussed above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Marginally Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was marginally satisfactory. However,
in the absence of `marginal' ratings for the ICR, the ICR team is constrained to give a Satisfactory rating in
Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings) and Annex 6.

8. Lessons Learned

Program-related lessons

·   This credit (unlike many typical TAs) gave the Bank the opportunity to engage the government on a
    large number of sectoral policy dialogues as well as to build institutional capacity, especially on
    petroleum sector issues, legal reforms, and public finance management issues. This was due to the
    nature of the small economy and the large scope of the credit. Taking the following two lessons into
    account will help ensure that future TA projects will have the same positive effect on sectors covered
    by the credit.

·   There should be flexibility in the provision of TA in order to adapt it to the changing needs of the
    government (in this case in the petroleum sector). As part of this flexibility, it is important to keep a
    certain percentage of credit as unallocated. Flexibility of design is equally important when the project
    involves capacity-building activities, especially in terms of prioritizing capacity issues.

·   TA credit should be given within the framework of the government's reform and institutional capacity
    building programs, with well-defined overall vision, and not as one-time perfunctory, incremental
    assistance. As capacity building usually takes many years, such TA credits should be viewed in terms
    of sequential credit arrangements that build upon the accomplishments of previous credits.

Implementation-related lessons

·   Better preparation/training of the PIU from the beginning of the project would ensure an easier
    implementation process, especially on procurement and financial management. As part of this, it is
    essential to put together a strong team in the beginning so that the burden does not fall on a single



                                                      - 13 -

     person. Learning from this experience, the presence of this team was made a condition of negotiations
     for the new GCB-TA Credit.

·    M&E should be developed in the early stages of project development. PIU should be made fully aware
     of expectations of them in terms of M&E of the project's outcomes and outputs. This is addressed in
     the new GCB-TA Credit.

·    To ensure more complete supervision and ease the work load at the PIU, increased supervision funding
     would have been useful so that at least financial management and procurement specialists were taken
     on mission once a year. This is addressed in the new GCB-TA Credit.

l During project preparation, special attention should be given to the project's content and how it fits
     within the context of prevailing weak institutional capacity and the level of political volatility. More
     specifically, neither should be underestimated.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 9

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

(i)    Dorsati Madani              Task Team Leader
(ii)   Sati Achath                 Consultant
(iii) Madhu Nair                   Consultant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i)    Miguel Saponara
(ii)   Dorsati Madani

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

(i)    A. David Craig                      Country Director
(ii)   Robert R. Blake                     Sector Manager
(iii) Eleodoro Mayorga                     Lead Economist
(iv)   Simplice Zouhon-bi                  Consultant
(v)    Miguel Saponara                     Consultant




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                          Outcome/Impact Indicators:

        Indicator            Projected in SAR/PAD                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   End of Project
First Objective:

Improved economic       Continued broadly satisfactory        Continued broadly satisfactory macroeconomic performance
management and          macroeconomic performance             in first half of 2004, however, performance slipped during
revenue collection      Tax collections as share of GDP       second half of 2004, leaving the budget in larger deficit than
                        estimated at 20.4 percent by          anticipated. The Government and the IMF came to an
                        2004.                                 agreement on a PRGF program in early 2005 that includes
                                                              corrective budgetary measures and structural reforms.

                                                              Tax collections as share of GDP estimated at 20.4 percent by
                                                              2004.

                                                              Customs administration has improved management due to
                                                              ASYCUDA and better valuation methodology.
Second Objective:

PRSP is adopted by      Adoption of the PRSP.                 PRSP adopted in January 2003, its principals
the government and      - PRSP guides budgeting process.      (emphasis on health, education, infrastructure)
used in budgeting                                             reflected in the 2003, 2004 budgets.

                                                              New unit to supervise implementation and follow up
                                                              on PRSP created. Five updated annexes in
                                                              development to complement the 12/02 PRSP
                                                              document presented to the WB boards in April 2005.
Third Objective:

Government is           Petroleum sector:                     Petroleum revenue management law was promulgated
developing and          - Capacity building: Petroleum        by the President of the Republic in December 2004
implementing agenda       revenue law promulgated.            and is in the implementation phase.
for macro-economic
and sectoral reforms    - Justice Sector: partially           Several new laws drafted, in process of review,
                          modernizing the legal and           presented to National Assembly or approved. (See
                          institutional infrastructure of the Annex 8 for further details).
                          country.

                        - Strategy on reform of the state:    Strategy adopted, needs to be fully implemented.
                          adopted.


* Note: This table and its content were not available in the PAD. More specifically, no outcome indicators were
included. Outcome indicators were added in Oct. 2003 and for the ICR document.

Output/Outcome/Impact Indicators: See Annex 8.




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                           Project Cost by Component (in US$ equivalent)


      Component            Appraisal                   Actual/Latest                Percentage of
                           Estimate                     Estimate                      Appraisal
                        Bank            Government        Bank        Government    Bank         Government


Goods/Equipment               512,820.51     51,282.05      604,350.00     66,448.45        24.17      2.66


Consultant services         1,474,358.98                  1,497,937,82                      59.92
training, studies, and
audits


Unallocated                   512,820.51                    537,580.73      2,185.40        21.50      0.09
(Petroleum Sector)


Total                          2,500,000       51,282     2,639,868.55     68,633.85       105.59      2.75



Project Cost (in US$ equivalent)




 Project Component       Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate
                               US$                      US$


Goods/Equipment                    512,820.51                  670,798.45


Consultant services              1,474,358.98                1,497,937,82
training, studies, and
audits


Unallocated                        512,820.51                  539,766.13
(Petroleum Sector)


Total                            2,500,000.00                2,708,502.40




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               12/1999                   4     Team Leader (1), Director (1),
                                               IMF Mission Chief (1),
                                               Economist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               07/26/2000                6     Economist (2), Director (1)
                                               Lawyer (1), Disbursement
                                               Officer (1), Consultant (1)

 Supervision
               06/01/2001                 4    Team Leader (1); Economist
                                               (2); Consultant (1)
               11/15/2002                 5    Team Leader (1); Economist (2);       S               S
                                               Consultant (1); Program
                                               Assistant (1)
               05/26/2002                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
               04/28/2003                 3    Economist (2); Lead Operations        S               S
                                               Officer (1)
               10/19/2005                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
               05/08/2004                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
               09/21/2004                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S

 ICR
               01/05/2005                3     Team Leader (1);
               05/30/2005                      Consultants (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  18                            45.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       10                            40.0
  Supervision                                 22                            90.5
  ICR                                          8                            30.0
  Total                                       58                          205.5




                                               - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Aide-memoire, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2.   Project Progress Reports.

3.   Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4.   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 28, 2005.

5.   Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association for the
     Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe: Public Resource Management Credit, dated
     October 6, 2000 (Report No. P07398).




                                              - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Outputs/Outcomes by Component



Components       Sector/ Domain        Activities                                 Impacts

COMPONENT 1:      Tax Reform           The project financed a consultant to        Recommendations made by the consultant
Fiscal Reform and                      conduct a diagnostic study on               were for the most part included in the draft
Management,                            administrative, institutional, and          of the new tax and investment code
resource                               legislative dysfunctions in the tax         currently at the National Assembly.
mobilization                           system. It evaluated tax and tax
                                       incentives systems to help Government
                                       in making the necessary reforms to
                                       promote private investment.

                                       Financed preparing draft proposals for:     These laws are being reviewed by the
                                       laws on taxation of personal and            government and are to be submitted to the
                                       company income - an income tax code         National Assembly by mid-2005 as part of
                                       and a wage tax code. Property taxation -    the PRGF agreement with the IMF. These
                                       regulations for the urban property tax      laws will modernize and simplify the tax
                                       [Contribuição Predial Urbana];              structure of the economy, reduce ambiguity
                                       regulations for the registration tax        and potential for arbitrary taxation, and
                                       [Contribuição de Registro] , transfer       help bolster private sector growth.
                                       (SISA), inheritance, and gifts); Rules for
                                       tax enforcement procedures: Tax
                                       Litigation Code and General Tax code.

                                       The project financed a consultant to        Reforms were undertaken within the
                                       analyze the structure of the directorate of directorate. Tax collection has increased
                                       taxation, providing suggestions for         from 17% of GDP in 1999 to 20.4% of
                                       in-depth reform to improve productivity     GDP in 2004.
                                       and tax collection.
                  Directorate of       The project financed training and           Improved revenue performance through
                  Customs              Technical Assistance in ASYCUDA to          better valuation and higher collection.
                                       improve skills of employees working
                                       with the system, leading to better          Import tax collections rose from 7.8% of
                                       assessment of import categorization and     total government revenues in 2001 to 11%
                                       values, tariff calculations and increased   of total government revenues in 2003.
                                       collection.
                  Financial Inspection Technical assistance was provided to        Accounting systems were normalized, and
                  Service              train the inspectors to overcome            fiscal management system improved
                                       deficiencies in the application of the      (through better reporting).
                                       OCAM accounting plan in effect. Basic
                                       notions of organization and
                                       record-keeping of the OCAM system
                                       were taught. Workbooks of practical
                                       exercises in the OCAM system were
                                       prepared.
                  Public Enterprise    A study was financed to focus on an         Recommendations made for the
                  reform: EMAE [São    assessment of the company's present         restructuring, price structure and
                  Tomé Water and       situation, the application of the proposed  privatization of the firm, within the
                  Power Company]       tariffs, re-establishment of the            purview of the PRMC privatization
                                       company's financial equilibrium,            program.
                                       investments, and prospects for
                                       privatization.                              Some of the recommendations of the study
                                                                                   were implemented: the company
                                                                                   succeeded in improving its collection rate;
                                                                                   management revised some of its pricing
                                                                                   policy; management aggressively pursued



                                                     - 22 -

                                                                  new investment potentials and the
                                                                  privatization process was postponed until
                                                                  the firm was deemed more financially
                                                                  sound.
Public Enterprise      Technical assistance was provided to the   Dossiers for Public Enterprises (PE) were
reform: Directorate of directorate to prepare the dossiers of the prepared, privatization process was
Treasury and           public enterprises to be privatized under  launched and bids evaluated for several
Patrimony              the PRMC project.                          companies.

                                                                  Out of seven firms earmarked in the PRMC
                                                                  for privatization two were liquidated. A
                                                                  hotel was sold while another firm was in
                                                                  the last stages of privatization (through
                                                                  government negotiations with private
                                                                  shareholders). A palm oil producing
                                                                  company was brought to the point of sale
                                                                  twice with no takers. In the case of Air Sao
                                                                  Tome airline negotiations has deadlocked
                                                                  between the government (minority
                                                                  shareholder) and the majority shareholder
                                                                  (TAP Air Portugal). One firm (EMAE)
                                                                  was removed from the privatization list
                                                                  (see above).
Public Expenditure     A consultant was hired to do a detailed
Planning               study of procedures for executing public
                       investment expenses.
                       Recommendations were provided to
                       improve methodology and capacity in
                       competitive bidding procurement,
                       planning and follow-up mechanisms.
Central Bank           Credit financed introductory courses in    Improved Central Bank oversight.
                       finance for employees of the Central
                       Bank were given during a two-week
                       period, focusing primarily on two
                       aspects: Financial Instruments and Bank
                       Supervision.
Central Bank / MoPF    Technical assistance was provided to       Led to consolidation of the debt dossiers
                       improve the debt data management.          under the supervision of a new specialized
                       This included internal and international   Debt Management directorate: unified data
                       debt dossiers, improvement in the          base and hard copy repository for debt
                       production of TOFE and the payment         documents and basic analysis.
                       system to be implemented by the Central
                       Bank.                                      Better management of the debt dossier,
                                                                  affecting budget programming and
                                                                  accounting process.
Review of Public       A consultant hired by the project          Enabled the Ministry of Education and
Expenditures /         conducted a study on educational           Culture to introduce and implement
Education              micro-planning aimed at introducing a      planning with a view to reinforcing
                       discussion of problems with the school     institutional capacity (proposal for
                       map [carta escolar] in the Sao Tomean      implementation of school map, scenarios
                      educational system.                         for different school mapping development).

Review of Public       Financed a consultant to review the        Recommendations were made for better
Expenditures/          structure of public spending on education  use of budgetary funds in view of the
Education              in the past five years and suggest better  Government's decision to support
                       use of funds from a macroeconomic          education as a primary sector.
                       perspective.
Review of Public       Financed a consultant to analyze
Expenditures /         available data (public and private



                                     - 23 -

                   Health                 expenditures associated with health
                                          projects and strategies already
                                          implemented, and their actual effect) and
                                          the relationship to poverty in Sao Tome e
                                          Principe.
                                          Reviewed the structure of public
                                          spending on health in the past five years
                                          to suggest better use of funds from a
                                          macroeconomic perspectives.
COMPONENT 2:       PRSP (National         Supported the development of the PRSP     PRSP adopted in early 2003.
Carry out sectoral Poverty Reduction      document:                                 Production of PRSP document through a
and specific       Strategy)                                                        highly consultative process.
studies needed to                         Financed consultants to develop the 5     WB board presentation in April 2005 was
prepare the PRSP                          sub-themes studies and to coordinate 5    met with strong support by all Executive
                                          sub-theme working groups. Also            Directors.
                                          financed the finalization of the poverty  The Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN)
                                          analysis used in the PRSP and the         considers the PRSP to provide a reliable
                                          writing of the PRSP.                      framework for reducing poverty in São
                                                                                    Tomé and Príncípe.
                                          Studies (5 themes of the PRSP):

                                          1. Education , alphabetization, and
                                              professional education
                                          2. Health, nutrition and population
                                          3. Governance, descentralization,
                                              participation, communication and
                                              information.
                                          4. Opportunities for income creation for
                                              the poor
                                          5. Potentials for STP economic growth,
                                              macro-economic framework.

                                          Financed consultants to hold consultative
                                          provincial meetings to discuss the PRSP
                                          content during development and propose
                                          solutions for the issues concerning the
                                          need to implement the PRSP and the
                                          matrix of measurements, including the
                                          preparation of progress indicators to
                                          serve as quantitative and qualitative
                                          benchmarks for evaluation of the extent
                                          to which the PRSP has been fulfilled.

                                          Financed consultants to establish a
                                          framework for financing the priority
                                          activities of the PRSP (2002-2005) and
                                          the costing of the PRSP.
                    National Forum        Consultant produced a base document to    Document facilitated national discussion
                                          provide thematic content for discussion   about future of the country and
                                          during the Summer 2004 National           development outlook.
                                          Forum. Provided summary of Forum
                                          recommendations.
                   INE [National          Financed technical assistance for surveys New data will feed into the M&E process
                   Statistics Institute]  of the active population, employment      of the PRSP implementation to improve
                                          and unemployment . This data is           basic economic and social sector
                                          considered fundamental for the areas of   information.
                                          labor, employment, wages, vocational
                                          training, and others.




                                                        - 24 -

                                           Technical assistance also updated data
                                           bases providing more current and
                                           accurate information. Staff were also
                                           trained through this support of data
                                           gathering and processing.

                                           Provided technical assistance and
                                           training to complete the General Census
                                           of the Population and Housing.
                    INE [National          Financed collecting basic statistical data Updated data bases providing more current
                    Statistics Institute]  to feed INE databases with updated         and accurate information.
                                           information (1998, 1999, and 2000) in
                                           order to prepare the national accounts.    New data will feed into the M&E process
                                           Partially supported annual harmonized      of the PRSP implementation by providing
                                           survey of companies for 1999 and 2000,     more accurate information on the status of
                                           enhancing the sectoral and geographic      the economy, private sector activities and
                                           desegregation of the respective results.   national accounts.

                                           Staff were also trained through this
                                           support of data gathering and processing.

COMPONENT 3:

Developing the
Agenda for
macro-economic
and sectoral policy
reforms
                    Petroleum              Financed international expertise to        Renegotiated contract tems for securing
                                           review all the problems contained in       more financial gains for the country.
                                           contracts signed with the oil companies
                                           and the problems arising from those
                                           contracts; to develop a strategy for
                                           handling the situation and to assist the
                                           government in negotiations with the oil
                                           companies. Advised the government of
                                           the DRSTP in matters of petroleum
                                           negotiation.
                                           Credit financed review of the evaluation   Technical knowledge and advice
                                           of geophysical and geological data,        helped government to have a more
                                           especially with respect to the recent      transparent and economically
                                           acquisitions of seismic and other data for rational decision making.
                                           use in promoting the blocks of the
                                           economic zones (Joint Development Zone     Improved government's knowledge
                                           ­ JDZ) and the exclusive economic zone     of economic potential of the sector
                                           (EEZ). This evaluation provided important and allowed them to negotiate
                                           input to economics consultant by           better contracts.
                                           furnishing data that will make it possible
                                           to correctly model the financial potential
                                           of the petroleum sector.
                                           Co-financed (with UNDP) consultants that Promulgated in December 2004
                                           drafted the petroleum resources            and is now in the implementation
                                           management law.                            phase.   The law is considered to
                                                                                      be a best practice in the sector.
                                           Financed consultants to do economic
                                           assessment (analyses) of the JDZ and the   Technical knowledge and advice
                                           EEZ, and model the the petroleum sector    helped government to take a more
                                           potential.                                 transparent and economically
                                                                                      rational decision making.



                                                        - 25 -

                      Financed a workshop on : "Options for        Education and raising of awareness among
                      Better Resources Management." Generic        decision makers and civil society regarding
                      subtopics were addressed, such as the        petroleum helped a more informed national
                      global trend toward transparency, the        discussion and decision making regarding
                      ability of OPEC to stabilize prices, and     the petroleum sector and revenues.
                      earnings by petroleum exporter
                      countries. A "coach" advised and
                      proposed different kinds of solutions to
                      the national petroleum commission in
                      the framework of the implementation of
                      the national petroleum agency.
Telecommunications    Technical assistance to help the             Authority was created, its capacity was
                      government develop and implement the         enhanced through training.
                      telecommunications regulatory authority.
                                                                   The telecoms laws were adopted and will
                                                                   be the base to supervise the opening of the
                                                                   market to competition by end 2005.
Administrative Reform Developed a comprehensive strategy for       Draft of Code of Administrative
                      reform of the State to improve               Procedure.
                      effectiveness of the government.

Judicial System       Financed consultants to revise certain laws The following laws have been been
                      (in coordination with Portuguese             approved by the National Assembly:
                      assistance), namely:                         Law of Penalties Execution
                      the Penal Code, Code of Criminal             Basic Law of Judiciary
                      Procedure, Law of Penalties Execution,       Statute of the Judicial Magistrates Service
                      Basic Law of the Judiciary System, and       Statute of the Public Prosecutor
                      other complementary legislation. Amended Statute of the Judicial Secretariats
                      the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates
                      Service and the Office of the Public         The following laws are still in draft (being
                      Prosecutor and the Judicial Secretariats.    discussed by the government or at the
                      Draft a Law on Professional Associations.    National Assembly):
                      Also revised the following laws: the Local the Local Finances Law;
                      Finances Law; the Political and              the Political and Administrative Statute of
                      Administrative Statute of Principe, the      Príncipe.
                      Political and Administrative Statuts of
                      Príncipe.

                      The objective was to modernize the overall
                      institutional and legal framework of the
                      country.
Judicial System /     Credit financed a consultant to undertake    New laws were submitted to the National
National Assembly     a comparative study on the effect of         Assembly. The Electoral Census Law and
                      democracy on development in African          Local Government Election Law were
                      countries in general and in STP in           approved.
                      particular, including evaluation of the
                      percentage of the General State Budget       Their implementation is aimed at
                      allocated to financing legislative activity, improving transparency.
                      as well as a comparative study of the
                      legislator-per-capita-of-population
                      coefficient. Revised draft electoral laws
                      on activities and financing of political
                      parties; financing of electoral campaigns.
Judicial System       Financed training for personnel in the       Improved quality of judicial system
                      courts and in the office of the              performance
                      Government Prosecutor concerning the
                      legal system, handling of cases, and the
                      operations of the judicial secretariats.
                      This included training for the



                                    - 26 -

                     Accounting Court (Tribunal das Contas).

Judicial System /    Financed (partially) consultants to revise
Private Sector       the following bills of law: General
Development/         Regime for the Pursuit of Commerce;
Ministry of          Model Statutes for Associations of
Commerce             Different Occupational Groups;
                     Registration of Importers by Class;
                     General Table of Commerce, Industry
                     and Tourism; Law on Tourist Uses; Law
                     creating a National Council on Tourism;
                     Tourism Framework Law; Law on
                     Operation of the Drive-Yourself Rental
                     Car Industry; Draft a bill that would set
                     up an autonomous fund to finance
                     government actions in the realm of
                     tourism; Draft a new consolidated and
                     updated law on industrial licensing.

                     The objective was to facilitate and
                     modernize the business environment
                     associated with private sector activities
                     (tourism, commerce, industry).
Judicial System /    Funded consultant to propose legislation    Law was proposed and adopted.
Private Sector       that responds to the need to protect São
Development/Ministry Tomean entrepreneurs by reserving areas
of Commerce          of economic activity exclusively for them,
                     or for others in partnerships with São
                     Tomean citizens.
                                                                 A legal instrument was created to formally
                     Funded consultant to develop regulation     establish the Single Service window.
                     for the new Investments Code to be
                     enacted by the National Assembly and
                     create the bases for functioning of a Single
                     Service Window [Balcão Único].
Private Sector       Funded a consultant to analyze the
Development/Ministry possibilities for implementing an
of Commerce/         integrated program (PIAFE).
Employment Strategy
                     This analysis helped to identify economic
                     opportunities to form and support business
                     initiatives.
Private Sector       Funded development of technical
Development /        procedures for organizing an office to
Employment Strategy  serve young micro-enterprises, conduct
                     studies to set up incubators for services
                     companies.

                     This was to help unemployed youth to
                     start up micro-businesses through the
                     center for information and
                     communications technologies, incubators

                     Developed a National Training,
                     Employment and Housing Strategy for
                     Young People, to present to the National
                     Youth Forum.




                                   - 27 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report


                              Democratic Republic of Sao Tome e Principe
                                    Ministry of Planning and Finance

                                      PATGRP Evaluation Report
                                   (February 2001 / December 2004)

      I.       Objectives

      As a result of successes achieved in the implementation of macroeconomic policy beginning in
      1998, the Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, in April 2000,
      reached agreement with the IMF on a program known as the Poverty Reduction and Growth
      Facility (PRGF) designed to lead the country to a reduction in its external debt as one of the HIPC
      (Heavily Indebted Poor Countries). Determined to execute this program, the Government, in a
      letter dated August 14, 2000 that described the plan of action, objectives, and policy measures
      intended to strengthen the management of public funds and improve the country's macroeconomic
      stability, asked the World Bank for assistance to support the PRGF during its execution.

      Based on a loan agreement signed in November 2000 for the equivalent of SDR 1,950,000 (one
      million nine hundred fifty thousand SDRs), which at the time represented US$2,500,000, the
      Technical Assistance Project for Public Funds Management (PATRGP) enabled the Government
      of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe to receive assistance in carrying out the
      policy measures contemplated in the PRGF Program by conducting the sectoral, sub-sectoral and
      specific studies necessary for preparation of its PRSP (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper) and in
      the drafting of an agenda for macroeconomic reforms and changes in sectoral policy.

      Throughout its existence, the PATGRP has helped reinforce the Government's institutional
      capacity. It has ensured that technical assistance services were provided for managing the
      objectives of the Government's economic and financial policy. It purchased various types of
      equipment for use in mobilizing public funds and managing them more effectively. It financed
      training in the various arenas of Government activity and an analysis of public spending on health
      and education. It supported initiatives to better define the policy objectives for private sector
      development and to strengthen the nation's performance in the area of statistics. It also assisted in
      the reform of certain codes that comprise the legal framework of the country's judiciary.

      II.      Evaluation of PATGRP Implementation

      Execution of activities planned by the PATGRP was heavily impacted by the political events that
      occurred in this country during the project period and provoked instability in the leadership of the
      ministries and continual changes in the work plans. This troubled internal environment, coupled
      with a rather unfavorable economic and financial context, and the limited ability of the various
      project beneficiary sectors to respond, explain the delay experienced in carrying out the
      programmed activities.




                                                   - 28 -

         Despite these difficulties, the Government believes that overall its objectives were met.

         We have prepared the following table to give a better picture of project objectives for the principal
         beneficiary sectors, along with the impact and results of the key studies and/or technical assistance
         provided by the PATGRP.



Sectors/domains            Objectives of the studies/technical assistance                          Impact

The National Assembly  Comparative study on the effect of democracy on           Two draft bills were submitted: one on the
                       development in African countries in general and in STP    revision of the political parties law and
                       in particular, including evaluation of the percentage of  another on the political party financing
                       the General State Budget allocated to financing           law. Their implementation will, among
                       legislative activity, as well as a comparative study of   other things, help combat corruption.
                       the legislator-per-capita-of-population coefficient.
Tax Reform             The proposed study sought to evaluate fundamental         A series of recommendations was made to
                       aspects of the tax and tax incentives systems in order to improve the taxation system, the
                       guide the Government in making the reforms necessary      organizational structure of the Bureau of
                       to promote private investment. It also was intended to    Taxes, and the tax incentives regime. A
                       diagnose administrative, institutional, and legislative   logical sequence to be followed in tax
                       dysfunctions in the tax system.                           reform was also laid out.
                       Draft proposals for: laws on taxation of personal and     Their enactment and subsequent
                       company income - an income tax code and a wage tax        implementation will increase tax fairness
                       code. Property taxation - regulations for the urban       and help bolster the private sector.
                       property tax [Contribuição Predial Urbana];
                       regulations for the registration tax [Contribuição de
                       Registro] (transfer (SISA), inheritance, and gifts);
                       Rules for tax enforcement procedures: Tax Litigation
                       Code and General Tax code.
Financial Inspection   Technical assistance made it possible to train the        The skills of the Inspection Service have
Service                inspectors so as to overcome deficiencies in the          been bolstered; accounting systems
                       application of the OCAM accounting plan now in effect     standardized; presentation of the results
                       in this country, even as applied by the State Auditing    for the year is improved; application of the
                       Agents [Agentes Fiscalizadores do Estado]. Basic          fiscal system was improved.
                       notions of organization and record-keeping of the
                       OCAM system were taught. Workbooks of practical
                       exercises in the OCAM system were prepared.
Public Expenditure     Detailed study of procedures for executing public         When the proposed recommendations are
Planning               investment expenses in order to improve public            implemented, the methodology of the
                       competitive bidding procedures and adopt investment       logical framework of project preparation
                       control and follow-up mechanisms.                         will have been integrated: evaluation from
                                                                                 the project standpoint to the standpoint of
                                                                                 PIP (Public Investment Program)
                                                                                 preparation.
Review of Public       A study in educational micro-planning aimed at            Indicators of access and participation
Expenditures           introducing a discussion of problems with the school      throughout the different levels of the
                       map [carta escolar] in the São Tomean educational         educational system were identified and
                       system. This will enable the Ministry of Education and    calculated. Organization of the school
                       Culture to introduce and implement planning with a        system and enumeration of the social and
                       view to reinforcing institutional capacity.               economic factors that explain the present
                                                                                 dynamic. Proposals for implementation of
                                                                                 the school map, identifying the phases, the
                                                                                 human resources, the timetable, etc.
                                                                                 Proposals for different scenarios of school
                                                                                 system development were presented.
                       Review the structure of public spending on education      Review public spending in order to



                                                            - 29 -

                     in the past five years and suggest better use of funds   achieve better allocation of public funds.
                     from a macroeconomic perspective.
Review of Public     Inventory and analyze available data (public and         Develop a list of pertinent indicators with
Expenditures         private expenditures associated with health, projects,   a view to following up on the objectives of
                     and strategies already implemented, and their actual     health policy. Review public spending in
                     effect) and the relationship to poverty in Sao Tome and  order to achieve better allocation of public
                     Principe.                                                funds.
                     Review the structure of public spending on health in
                     the past five years and suggest better use of funds from
                     a macroeconomic perspective.
Financial Management Provide the managerial staff of the districts in Sao     The skills of the managerial personnel in
                     Tome and Principe with a knowledge of financial and      the districts of São Tomé and Príncipe
                     personnel management practices, as well as               were enhanced.
                     information technology.
                     Survey all the problems contained in contracts signed    A legal and institutional framework was
                     with the oil companies and the problems arising from     designed for managing petroleum-related
Petroleum            those contracts.                                         activities in Sao Tome and Principe.
                     Develop a strategy for handling the situation and assist
                     the Government in negotiations with the oil companies.
                     Advise the Government of the DRSTP in matters of
                     petroleum negotiation.
                     Review the evaluation of geophysical and geological      Improvements were made in managing the
                     data, especially with respect to the recent acquisitions contracts to gather seismic and other data
                     of seismic and other data for use in promoting the       for use in promoting the blocks of the
                     blocks of the economic zones (Joint Development Zone     economic zones.
                     ­ JDZ) and the exclusive economic zone (EEZ). This
                     review should include the regional geological scenario.
                     Advise the consultant for economics by furnishing data
                     that will make it possible to correctly model the
                     petroliferous potential of those areas.
                     Draft a petroleum resources management law. Examine      São Tomean officials are now better
                     and propose alternatives to the fiscal arrangements      equipped in legal terms to satisfactorily
                     under the existing contracts and the proposals for       manage the petroleum resources.
                     revising them. Economic assessment (analyses) of the     National capability to evaluate contracts in
                     JDZ and the EEZ, and correct modeling of their           the area of petroleum has improved.
                     petroliferous potential.
                     Presentation of the topic: "Options for Better Resources Skills reinforced on "Options for Better
                     Management." Generic subtopics were addressed, such      Resources Management."'
                     as the global trend toward transparency, the ability of
                     OPEC to stabilize prices, and earnings by petroleum
                     exporter countries. A coach will advise and propose
                     different kinds of solutions to the national petroleum
                     commission in the framework of the implementation of
                     the national petroleum agency.
EMAE [São Tomé       The study focused on an assessment of the company's      If the recommendation made in the study
Water and Power      present situation, the application of the proposed       is adopted, the financial situation of
Company]             tariffs, re-establishment of the company's financial     EMAE will improve.
                     equilibrium, investments, and prospects for
                     privatization.
Telecommunications   Take steps to create a telecommunications regulatory     Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
                     authority.                                               created.
Judicial System      Revise certain bodies of law, namely: the Penal Code,    After passage of those laws, the judicial
                     Code of Criminal Procedure, Law of Penalties             system will be more expeditious.
                     Execution, Basic Law of the Judiciary System, and
                     other complementary legislation. Amend the Statues of
                     the Judicial Magistrates Service and the Office of the
                     Public Prosecutor and the Judicial Secretariats.
                     Draft a Law on Professional Associations.




                                                         - 30 -

Administrative Reform Reformulate the following laws: Electoral Census Law;     Enhancement of local power.
                      the Local Government Elections Law; the Local
                      Finances Law; the Political and Administrative Statute
                      of Príncipe.
                      Draft a Code of Administrative Procedure, keeping in      Regulate the organization and functioning
                      mind the realities and specific characteristics of the    of the public administration. Avoid
                      Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.                        bureaucratization and bring services closer
                                                                                to the people.
                      Develop a comprehensive strategy for reform of the        A document that serves as a guide for
                      State.                                                    actions to be taken to solidify plans to
                                                                                adapt and continually adjust the apparatus
                                                                                of the State to changes in the global
                                                                                context and the basic policies of the
                                                                                Government.
Judicial System       Training for personnel in the courts and in the office of Skills of government employees improved.
                      the Government Prosecutor concerning the legal
                      system, handling of cases, and the operations of the
                      judicial secretariats.
Employment Strategy   Develop technical procedures for organizing an office     This should help consolidate the
                      to serve young micro-enterprises, conduct studies to set  initiatives for young people, particularly
                      up incubators for services companies.                     by creating young micro-enterprises, a
                                                                                center for new information and
                                                                                communications technologies, and
                                                                                incubators.
                      Develop a National Training, Employment and               A National Youth Forum was held,
                      Housing Strategy for Young People, to be presented to     involving the sectors associated with the
                      the National Youth Forum.                                 problems of job creation.
ENRP [National        Develop an ENRP and propose solutions for the issues      A document was drafted that constitutes a
Poverty Reduction     concerning the need to implement the ENRP and the         reference tool for use in harmonizing the
Strategy]             matrix of measurements, including the preparation of      sectoral and macroeconomic policies and
                      progress indicators to serve as quantitative and          in implementing the ENRP, in other
                      qualitative benchmarks for evaluation of the extent to    words ­ "Who will do what, when, and
                      which the ENRP has been fulfilled. Establish a            with what resources?"
                      framework for financing the priority activities of the
                      ENRP (2002-2005) and the complete ENRP.
                      Analyze the possibilities for implementing an             Sectors of activity in the national economy
                      integrated program to support and form business           were identified, as well as a commercial
                      initiatives (PIAFE) in Sao Tome and Principe.             and industrial zone suited for
                                                                                implementation of a PIAFE.
                      Propose legislation that responds to the need to protect  After approval, the country will be better
                      São Tomean entrepreneurs by reserving areas of            prepared to protect the São Tomean
                      economic activity exclusively for them, or for others in  entrepreneur.
                      partnerships with São Tomean citizens.
                      Reformulate the following bills of law: General Regime    A legal foundation for organized
                      for the Pursuit of Commerce; Model Statutes for           commercial activity was created.
                      Associations of Different Occupational Groups;
                      Registration of Importers by Class; General Table of
                      Commerce, Industry and Tourism; Law on Tourist
                      Uses; Law creating a National Council on Tourism;
                      Tourism Framework Law; Law on Operation of the
                      Drive-Yourself Rental Car Industry. Draft a bill that
                      would set up an autonomous fund to finance
                      Government actions in the realm of tourism. Draft a
                      new consolidated and updated law on industrial
                      licensing.
                      Regulate the new Investments Code to be enacted by        A legal instrument was created for use in
                      the National Assembly and create the bases for            institutionalizing a Single Office for
                      functioning of a Single Service Window [Balcão            investment promotion.




                                                         - 31 -

                        Único].
Central Bank            Introductory courses in finance for employees of the     Improvement of skills of Central Bank
                        Central Bank were given during a two-week period,        personnel.
                        focusing primarily on two aspects: Financial
                        Instruments and Bank Supervision.
INE [National           Conduct surveys of the active population, employment     A diagnosis was made of the current
Statistics Institute]   and unemployment by interviewing families in order to    status of statistics on labor, employment,
                        gather and make available statistics that are considered wages, and vocational training.
                        fundamental for the areas of labor, employment, wages,   Dissemination and subsequent publication
                        vocational training, and others.                         of data from the 2001 Census was
                        Complete the General Census of the Population and        completed.
                        Housing.
                        Gather basic statistical data to feed and update the INE Create posts in remote locations where
                        databases with updated information (1998, 1999, and      statistical data can be gathered.
                        2000) in order to prepare the national accounts. Annual
                        harmonized survey of companies for 1999 and 2000,
                        enhancing the sectoral and geographic desegregation of
                        the respective results.




                                                            - 32 -

- 33 -

