                                       (Cr. 342%STP)
                 Release of the Second Tranche - Full Compliance




                                     I. Background

1. During the period 1998-99, the Government launched an economic reform program
   despite a difficult political environment. IDA, through two IDFs (Public Resource
   Management and Administrative Reform), supported the implementation of the first
   phase of the reform program. Given the encouraging progress, a Public Resource
   Management Credit was approved by the Board on November                 2, 2000, and
   provided budgetary support to fill the financial gap for the period 2000-2001,
   permitting the Government to sustain its reform program.

2. The objective of the Public Resource Management Credit is to assist Sao Tome and
   Principe in consolidating macroeconomic stability and in gaining competitiveness.
   The measures supported by the operation are aimed at creating an environment
   conducive to private sector-led economic growth. Also, by focusing on revenue
   mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards education, health, and
   poverty   reduction programs, this operation seeks to ensure that these key
   sectors/programs would not suffer from budgetary cuts and would have a direct and
   positive impact on Sao Tome and Principe's efforts towards poverty reduction.

3  The reform program supported by the Public Resource Management Credit has
 l


   three key    components:     (i)  improving    domestic  resource mobilization;   (ii)
   strengthening public expenditure management; and (iii) continuing implementation
   of the public     enterprise reform program. The Credit has complemented and
   deepened actions already agreed under the programs of the IMF, AfDB and EU in
   the area of public expenditure management.

                  II. Recent Political and Economic Developments

4  The presidential and legislative elections and related political deadlock in 2001 and
 l


   2002 led to administrative standstill and slowed the pace of the reform process
   considerably. In 2003, political in-fighting (January 2003) and political and social
   unrest (April    riots and July bloodless coup) contributed to a difficult     policy
   environment. Nonetheless, the implementation of reform has continued, albeit more
   slowly than envisaged at the time of the credit approval.

5. The developments in the nascent petroleum sector have dominated economic events
   in 2003. In the first quarter of 2003, the GSTP, using technical assistance funded
   from the World        Bank PANIC-TA      credit, renegotiated its existing petroleum

   contracts with three companies and Nigeria, resulting in more favorable terms. In
   April 2003, the Joint Zone Administration      (JZA) started the bidding process for
   exploration of the nine deep sea blocks shared by S%oTome (40 percent) and
   Nigeria (60 percent). The transparent bidding process closed in late October on a
   highly successful note, with 33 bids from 22 companies for seven blocks. Sao Tome
   will receive an approximate US$70-120 millions in the fourth quarter of 2004 in
   one-off signature bonuses from contracts on these blocks. However, Sgo Tome is
   not expected to seeits shareof petroleum production revenues before 2010.

6. The GSTP has started to develop a petroleum legal framework in cooperation with
   the National Assembly and other stakeholders. The Government requested and is
   receiving technical assistance from the World Bank and UNDP in this effort. The
   law is expected to be adopted by the National Assembly and promulgated by the
   President in June 2004. To provide support in this area over the medium term, the
   World Bank is developing a new three-year TA credit to assist the Government
   prepare for the new petroleum era economy.

7. Both the World Bank and the I;IF         programs experienced slippages due to the
   political developments of 2001-2002. The PRGF was suspended and an IMF Staff
   Monitored Program (SMP) was launched in January 2002. The new Government
   that was formed in April 2002 committed itself to fiscal discipline and resumed
   implementation of its reform program. In August 2002, the SMP was extended to
   end 2002. Overall macroeconomic stability was maintained and performance under
   the SMP program was broadly satisfactory through end 2002. Real growth in 2001
   and 2002 reached 4 percent per year, helped by increased competitiveness resulting
   from a real depreciation and higher international prices for cocoa. Inflation, which
   stood at 9.5 percent in 2001, fell to 8.9 percent by end 2002.

8. Macroeconomic performance has remained broadly satisfactory in 2003. Real GDP
   growth in 2003 is estimated to be near 4.5 percent, with end-period inflation close
   to 10 percent. Broad money grew by 50 percent (including a strong rise in currency
   in circulation), as a result of a marked increase in demand for transaction balances;
   net foreign assets rose sharply. The external current account deficit is estimated at
   45 percent of GDP, reflecting a strong increase in exports and a modest rise in
   imports. The authorities maintained their flexible exchange rate regime: the real
   effective exchange rate depreciated by 5 percent during January-October 2003,
   mitigating the effect on competitiveness of an estimated 11 percent decline in the
   terms of trade.

9. In 2001-2003, fiscal performance has remained generally on track, although there
   were problems relating to election expenditures, pressure for civil    service wage
   increases, and spending increases following        the announcement of petroleum
   signature bonuses. Tax revenue collections rose from 16.9 percent of GDP in 1999
   to 18.6 percent in 2001, 19.5 percent of GDP in 2002, and are estimated at 18.6
   percent in 2003 in the aftermath of the July coup. Total expenditure reached 76.8
   percent of GDP in 2001 due to election related expenditure, petroleum signature
   bonuses and a short term loan to the public utility        company. In 2002, total


                                           2

    expenditure was 63.5 percent of GDP compared with the programmed 69.7 percent,
    highlighting the Government's renewed fiscal discipline and commitment to macro-
    economic stability. The primary fiscal deficit was in line with the macroeconomic
    program. In fact, total primary balance for 2002 was less than programmed (-4.3
    percent of GDP vs. the programmed -4.7 percent). Domestic arrears had been
    cleared by end 2002. For 2003, the primary fiscal deficit, including HIPC-financed
    social outlays, amounted to 12 percent of GDP. Domestic bank financing of the
    budget deficit was contained within the program limits.

10.  On the basis of the 2002-2003 track record, understandings were reached with the
    IMF on a new PRGF-supported program at end June 2003, but the bloodless coup
    of July 2003 suspended the planned presentation of the new PRGF-supported
    program. The IMF visited the country in November-December 2003 and is planning
    to continue discussions on the PRGF-supported program in late June 2004. In
    addition   to the macroeconomic        performance      being    satisfactory, successful
    conclusion of the PRGF discussions hinges on the adoption of a satisfactory law on
    petroleum revenue management that is expected for June 2004 and also on reaching
    understandings on a medium-term macro-economic framework. In concluding the
    2003 Article IV consultation on March 17, 2004, 111\4FExecutive Directors noted
    that Sao Tome and Principe's macroeconomic performance had remained broadly
    satisfactory, despite a short-lived coup d'etat. They noted the progress in improving
    public expenditure management, a long-standing concern. The Executive Directors
    of the IMF endorsed the authorities' strategy of stabilizing the non-oil primary
    fiscal deficit over the medium term. To help ensure that fiscal policy remains
    sustainable, Directors stressedthat the deficit should be limited in the long term to
    the interest and dividend earnings from the future oil fund's accumulated assets.
    The 2004 budget, as presented to the National Assembly in January 2004, is in line
    with this approach and consistent with understandings reached with Fund staff last
    Fall.

11. The implementation of the structural reforms has experienced some delays due to
    lack of institutional capacity and the political instability the country has experienced
    in the past three years (five Governments in two years, April 2003 riots, July 2003
    coup).   However,     some difficult   political   decisions    have been taken     and
    implemented, including separation of over 300 civil servants in early 2002, holding
    the line on wage increase demands by the civil service, adoption of a 2003 budget
    in line with the medium term program of the PRSP, an audit of three Governmental
    contracts and the adoption of a broadly satisfactory 2004 budget. Furthermore, the
    Central Bank resolved the situation of the bankrupt Banco Commercial de Ecuador
    (BCE) by selling it to foreign investors in the first half of 2003.

                 III. Progress in Implementing      the Reform Program

12. The Government recognizes that maintenance of macroeconomic stability is a
    prerequisite for attaining the higher economic growth essential to reducing poverty.
    The PRMC has enabled the Government to continue to build on some of the
    reforms initiated in 1998/99. It also supports the PRSP goals of fostering private


                                            3

    sector development and directing funds to the priority sectors (health, education and
    infrastructure).

13. The Government has shown c,ontinued commitment to its reform program, despite
    political instabili ty and low institutional capacity leading to slow and at time
    uneven progress. The positive outcomes of that reform program are reflected by the
    following:

   *  After an extended participatory and transparent process, the PRSP was officially
      adopted during a national conference in December 2002 and promulgated by the
      President in January 2003. It will be officially sent to the World Bank and IMF
      shortly and presented to the Boards of both institutions in FY05. In the meantime,
      the 2003 budget already reflected elements of the PRSP. However, limited
      technical and administrative capacity remains a constraint to the implementation
      of its development program.

      Actions have been taken to reduce unequal access to public services through the
      extension of services (especially renovation and building of health centers and
      schools), supported by donors and the HIPC            Interim Debt Relief.   Public
      expenditures for economic and social services that benefit the poor were
      increased. These expenditures included public transport and breakfast for school
      children that were launched in late 2001. Health and education strategies have
      been developed, costed and adopted, focusing on primary education and primary
      health care.

      In public   expenditure management, the Government has been paying close
      attention to the wage bill, which has been maintained at approximately 9 percent
      of GDP during 2001-2003. It is working to launch the final phase of unifying
      civil service and payroll management into one computerized system. It carried out
      PERs in the health and education sectors in mid 2002 and first quarter of 2003
      respectively, and has already re-directed budgetary funds toward social sectors.
      Capital expenditures for health rose from US$2.21 million     in 2002 to US$4.21
      million in 2003. In education, capital expenditures rose from US$1.45 million in
      2002 to US$ 3.59 million in 2003. To address its weakness in debt management
      the Government created a semi-independent agency in the fall of 2003 to update
      and manage the debt data, analyze debt sustainability and develop a national
      strategy and criteria for indebtedness beyond HIPC and into the petroleum era.
      The Government still needs to address the antiquated law and ad hoc procedures
      relating to public procurement.

   *  Public resource management and expenditure are being strengthened and made
      transparent. The Government has centralized the Government's revenue and
      external financial proceeds (except for some grants), and has improved control
      over extra-budgetary expenditures. It tightened control over budgetary transfers to
      SOEs. It has improved tax and tariff collection.

  The reforms at the Finance Directorate have slowly taken shape. There are now
  three directorates: tax, budget and treasury. All three directorates have received
  technical assistance from the World Bank and other donors to assist them in
  capacity building and the reform of their budget related procedures. The budget is
  prepared following consultation with spending departments, but is still done on a
  yearly basis instead of within a medium term expenditure framework. The 2003
  budget, which was presented to the assembly in December 2002, is linked to the
  policy priorities of the PRSP and the macro-economic targets agreed to with
  international partners. The Govemrnent has also adopted a broadly satisfactory
  2004 budget. While       the Government still    lacks the necessary capacity to
  undertake a thorough internal control of the budgetary process, efforts at
  improving monitoring are underway: ad hoc a priori and posteriori checks on
  budget execution have been introduced. Also the Government is working within
  the framework of the HIPC AAP to improve budget management, including better
  budget execution and audits. An independent firm was retained in mid-2003 to
  supervise implementation      and progress of public     investment projects. The
  Auditor's Office has started its audit work in June 2003.

  The Government has been pursuing its public enterprise privatization program. It
  liquidated a meat processing enterprise (ENCAR)        and a medicine distribution
  company (ENAMED)        in 2001. It sold a hotel (Pousada Boa Vista) in April 2003
  and received one bid for the bankrupt palm-oil company (EMOLVE)          in October
  2003. As a minority share holder in the national airline company, the GSTP has
  introduced competition in the national market leading to sharp price decreases,
  and has decreed that it would sell 1/7thof its sharesto national employees of Air
  Sao Tome and wishes to adopt an open sky policy. The GSTP is finalizing its
  withdrawal from a construction material company (Cunha Comes) and continues
  to   reform   the  water   and electricity   company     (EMAE).    Against    these
  accomplishments it should be noted that progress in the privatization program has
  been delayed by a number of factors, including political        and administrative
  deadlock related to the 2001-2002 electoral period, lack of capacity to assess
  value of the properties, and lack of investors' interest in the companies being
  marketed.


l As part of the reforms intended to improve transparency and governance in the
  public administration, the Central Bank books are audited externally on a yearly
  basis and published on the intemet. In an effort to improve the Public Investment
  Program (PIP) performance (which suffered from low execution rates and no
  routine coordination with donors up to end 2002) the Government has launched a
  three-year rolling   PIP.   In  2003, it   has ensured that public       investment
  programming matches the PRSP priority actions and investment needs. However,
  donor coordination is still weak. The Ministry of Justice is pursuing a reform plan
  that includes legal and structural reforms and capacity building

0 The Government has adopted a tourism strategy and is promoting the sector as a
  major source of economic growth in its poverty reduction strategy. As part of its



                                         5

        PRSP priority      actions  and rural   strategy, the    Government     is building,
        rehabilitating and maintaining infrastructure to improve market accessto the rural
        sector. The pace of other reforms and measures could nonetheless be accelerated.
        The critical land registration process and other land related legislations have not
        been undertaken, hampering economic activity such as sales, rental, and use as
        collateral. The Government recognizes the critical role of extension services and
        micro-credit in rural development. Faced with a land reform process that has led
        to land erosion and migration to the cities, the Government is supporting creation
        of small cooperatives among farmers to provide better extension services and
        credit.


   l    Private sector development (PSD) is considered one of the main pillars of the
        PRSP. However, Government efforts to improve the legislative, regulatory, fiscal
        and judicial   environment conducive to private sector development have been
        uneven. Notable progress has been made in updating laws, providing capacity
        building to the judiciary,   in developing a new tax and investment law (being
        discussed in the National Assembly) and in promoting the tourism sector (see
        above). However, the commercial framework still needs to be improved. The
        commercial laws are slated to be revised in 2004 together with the civil laws, but
        there are no plans yet to adopt a competition law or the OHADA      framework. The
        Government intends to launch a "guichet unique" in 2005 to facilitate registration
        and launching of businesses, especially foreign investors. However, no action has
        been taken in this regard yet.    GSTP will still need to adopt a legal business
        framework such as OHADA to facilitate PSD growth.

14. The progress in the general program, while less than fully satisfactory, has been
    sufficient to allow tranche release. Progress against specific tranche release criteria as
    set out in Annex one of the Development Credit Agreement is described below.

   *    Condition    1. Eliminate all ad hoc exemptions.

   This condition     has been met. Elimination   of the ad hoc exemptions took place in
   2001. Analysis of customs statistics for the first nine months of 2001 suggested a
   distinct decline in volume of exemptions compared to the past.           No new ad hoc
   exemptions were granted in 2002 and up to end September 2003. However,
   exemptions under the law (non ad hoc) increased substantially in 2002.

   a    Condition 2. Make fully operational the SYDONIA          automated system for the
        assessment of tax bases and the calculation of customs duties.

   This condition has been met. The SYDONIA           system is fully functional. Customs is
   able to control the calculation of the tariff applicable to imports in a more systematic
   and efficient manner. A number of Customs professionals have been trained to use
   the system.

    *   Condition    3. Introduce the unique taxpayer identification      number system to
        all revenue agencies to monitor taxpayers compliance.

    This condition    has been met. The Governrnent has introduced a single taxpayer
    identification number system with 6 digits for the fiscal administration in December
    2001. The identifier      is functional  since January 2002 and is being used by
    Government entities such as the Customs, Tax Directorate and Central Bank, and by
    the private bank (IBSTP). The efficiency of the identification system is expected to be
    enhanced in the future through an integrated computerized registration system that
    would correct some problem with multiple entries.

    *   Condition 4. Carry out PERs for the education and health sectors.

   This condition has been met. A draft health PER was provided to the World Bank in
   August 2002 and a draft education PER in April 2003.

        Condition 5. Implement      a general sales tax.

   This condition     has been met. In 2002, the decree instituting the general services
   sales tax was published in the official journal and its application decree was adopted.
   The tax was incorporated into the 2002 budget, but the implementation process met
   initially with technical difficulties. After addressing the difficulties, the Government
   implemented the services tax in January 2003. The Government is now further
   reinforcing tax administration to reduce tax evasion and improve collection rates

                                     IV. CONCLUSION

15. In view of the overall program and progress with the implementation of the program
    supported by the Credit, and in compliance with the specific conditions of release as
    described in paragraph 14, the Association has informed            the Borrower of the
    availability of the second tranche of SDR 1.9 million, US$2.7 million equivalent as of
   May 3,2004.

