                                                                                     86941

                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                           CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                     EDS2000-363
                                                                                  November 1, 2000
                                                                                      05:35:36 PM


Statement by Terrie O'Leary
Date of Meeting: November 2, 2000

                 Sao Tome and Principe: Country Assistance Strategy, Public Resource
                Management Credit and Public Resource ManagementTechnical Assistance
                                              Project


Background

Sao Tome and Principe is an island nation of 145,000 people which suffers from many of the
problems that affect small island states, i.e. remoteness, limited institutional capacity, a narrow
resource base, vulnerability to shocks, and entrenched poverty. In 1999, growth averaged 2.4
percent, inflation was 12.6 percent at end-1999 (down from 80 percent at end-1997), and the
budget deficit was 3.4 percent of GDP.

Sao Tome and Principe is a HIPC country. Its’ public external debt was US $296 million at end-
1999, or 627 percent of GDP. During 1996-1999 Sao Tome and Principe stopped servicing of
debt to official bilateral creditors (except France and Cape Verde), which meant that arrears
continually increased in that period. In May of this year, however, the Paris Club granted Sao
Tome and Principe a rescheduling of its bilateral debt on Naples terms. Since 1999, all non-
reschedulable external arrears have been eliminated and all external debts to multilateral
institutions serviced. Sao Tome and Principe is expected to reach its HIPC decision point before
year-end 2000.

In 1998-99, Sao Tome and Principe implemented a Staff Monitored Program (SMP). Following
a decade of decline and deteriorating social indicators, the SMP has helped to strengthen fiscal
performance, stabilize the exchange rate, and lower inflation. Several structural policies were
implemented including an end to price controls, trade liberalization, civil service reform, and the
privatization of some government enterprises.
Country Assistance Strategy

The International Development Agency’s (IDA) strategy for assistance to Sao Tome and
Principe is to support the Government in the pursuit of the objectives set out in the interim
PRSP: sustaining growth to raise incomes and reduce poverty, and broadening access to social
services and improving their quality.

IDA’s lending program for Sao Tome and Principe remains limited and is likely to continue as in
the past with one project expected to be financed every two to three years. The US $7.5 million
Public Management Reform Credit and its corresponding US $2.5 million Technical Assistance
Program should help to remedy some institutional and economic management capacity problems.


Public Resource Management Credit (PRMC) and Public Resource Management
Technical Assistance Project (PRMTA)

The PRMC and PRMTA would together provide US $11million (US $7.5 million and US $2.5
million, respectively) for economic reforms in Sao Tome and Principe.

The PRMC reforms have three objectives: to improve domestic resource administration (via
improvements to the tax system, particularly tax administration), to strengthen public
expenditure management by restructuring public expenditures (particularly the civil service wage
bill), and to continue to implement a program of reforms and privatization for public enterprises.

The PRMTA is to finance policy reform studies, research on sectoral strategies, and simulation
models. This work will be needed towards the preparation of the full PRSP.

The PRMC will be disbursed in three tranches: two core tranches and one floating tranche. The
first core tranche will be disbursed when the credit is approved; the second tranche will be
released once certain conditionalities have been met in approximately one year’s time. The
floating tranche is expected to be released by February 2002, but in the event that performance is
unsatisfactory, it will be cancelled.

Comments

We agree with the goals of the CAS, and with the way in they are to be implemented. We would
underline the importance of good governance and institutional reforms to Sao Tome and
Principe’s economic development. Much needed private sector development will not occur
unless public sector management and transparency continue to improve.

We also emphasize the importance of poverty reduction for Sao Tome and Principe. Recent
growth has not yet been translated into a higher standard of living. The social sector needs in this
country are enormous and must be viewed as the underlying reason for all other development
activities.
We have in the past spoken of the affects that a large number policy actions have brought to bear
on small nations, Sao Tome and Principe not being an exemption. We have stressed that in such
cases the focus should be on the quality of conditionalities rather than the quantity.

We support both the PRMC and the PRMTA, however we are concerned with the scope of the
planned public service retrenchment and its impact. Our concerns rest mainly with the fact that in
most small states, the public sector is the major partner in all economic activity. Its usual
overbearing task is that of providing the basic core services, especially health and education to its
people. This is especially prominent in cases where the private sector is not sufficiently
developed to provide such services. In 1999 the civil service wage bill made up 48 percent of
current (non-interest) government expenditures. Reducing the size of the wage bill is important
but the environment in which reform is taking place must be considered in the discussion of
alternatives for the provision of core public services. While the necessity for reform is obvious,
we worry about the impact the reforms may have on ordinary Sao Tomeans given the fact that so
many of them rely on the government for employment. We understand however that the
retrenchment of the 532 civil servants will be done in a phased manner and that the government
will provide training as well as leave packages for them through financing by the European
Union.

We are pleased to see the high level of government ownership of this program, and the
transparency provisions (regular audit of the Central Bank and commercial bank accounts into
which project funds flow) to ensure productive use of IDA resources.
