OFFICIAL
DOCUMiNTS
The World Bank                              1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT .              Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION       U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
March 30, 2012
His Excellency Mr. Sidi Ould Tah
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Excellency:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA: Credit No. 4218-MAU
(Public Sector Capacity Building Project)
Amendment to the Financing Agreement
We refer to the Financing Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 19, 2006, for
the above-mentioned Project, between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Recipient)
and the International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to your
letter no. 181 1/MAED/M, dated February 26, 2012, requesting, inter alia: (i) a revision
of the description of the Project which better reflects the Recipient's current strategy; (ii)
as a result of (i) above, a revision of the Project's performance indicators; and (iii) a
reallocation of the funds among categories in the disbursement table. Capitalized terms
used in this amendment letter and not otherwise defined herein have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request. The
Association proposes to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.    Schedule 1 to the Agreement (Project Description) is deleted and replaced by the
new Schedule I attached to this Letter.
2.    In Schedule 2 to the Agreement (Project Execution), Section II.A.1 is deleted in
its entirety and replaced with the following language:
"1.   The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08
of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Association. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report."
RCA 248423. Ll WUI 64145 Ll FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿H. E. Mr. Sidi Ould Tah             -2-                 Credit No. 4218- MAU
3.    In Schedule 2 to the Agreement (Project Execution), the table in Section IV.A.2 is
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following table:
Amount of the
Category           Financing Allocated  Percentage of Expenditures
(expressed in SDR)        to be Financed
(1) Goods, works, consultants'   8,570,000      100% of foreign expenditures
services, and training                          and 100% of local expenditures
expenditures for the Project                   taxes excluded
(2) Refund of Project             530,000       Amount payable pursuant to
Preparation Advance                             Section 2.07 of the General
Conditions
(3) Unallocated                      0
TOTAL AMOUNT                     9,100,000
4.    In the Appendix to the Agreement (Definitions), the following new definition is
inserted respecting the alphabetical order and the successive definitions are
renumbered accordingly.
"Minor Works" means small refurbishment works for the adaptation of existing
buildings, which do not trigger the Bank Safeguard Policies."
5.    In the Appendix to the Agreement (Definitions), the following new definition is
inserted respecting the alphabetical order and the successive definitions are
renumbered accordingly.
"Bank Safeguard Policies" mean the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual."
All other provisions of the Agreement except as amended herein, shall remain in
full force and effect.
This amendment shall become effective as of the date of its countersignature by
the Recipient.


﻿H. E. Mr. Sidi Ould Tah             -3-                  Credit No. 4218- MAU
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by countersigning, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter, while keeping one original for your
records.
Sincerely,
Vera Song e
Country Director fo Mauritania
Africa Reg on
AGREED:
ISLAMIC REPU     IC OF   AUR   ANIA
By:
His Excelle cy Mr. Sidi Id Tah
Minister otE omic ffairs and Development
Date:      AVR 2012                .
21 4 4Mk.


﻿H. E. Mr. Sidi Ould Tah            -4-                 Credit No. 4218- MAU
NEW SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in implementing key
reforms to improve performance, efficiency and transparency of public resources
management on the territory of the Recipient.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improvement of Public Finance Management, including through support
to: (1) strengthening resource mobilization; (2) improving budget presentation and
planning; (3) improving budget execution and accounting; (4) strengthening efficiency of
expenditure; (5) decentralizing public finance management, including in Nouadhibou and
Rosso; (6) providing technical assistance for public procurement reform; (7) providing
technical assistance to the public finance reform unit of the Recipient's Ministry of
Finance; and (8) supporting the population census.
Part B: Support to Local Development, through: (1) strengthening the Recipient's
Ministry of Interior, Posts and Telecommunications, including: (i) the General
Directorate of Local Government (Direction Gnrale des Collectivitis Locales); (ii) the
Directorate of Territorial Administration (Direction de l'Administration Territoriale); and
(iii) support to communication and information; and (2) improving local development
management, including in the two pilot areas, Nouadhibou and Rosso.
Part C: Strengthen environment, including through support to: (1) the creation and
operation of a consultation framework for the establishment of a cross cutting
organization responsible for environment management in accordance with the National
Action Plan for the Environment (Plan d'Action National pour 1'Environnement -PANE);
(2) capacity building and rehabilitation of the premises of the Recipient's Ministry of
Environment through Minor Works; and (3) support to the implementation of the sector
strategy and the identification of funding related to climate change.
Part D: Strengthening the Recipient's Human Resources' management capacities,
including through support to: (1) the development of human resources management
capacity in the Recipient's civil service; (2) the modernization of the Recipient's human
resources management tools; and (3) functional reviews for the Recipient's Ministry of
Finance and the Recipient's Ministry of Civil Service.
Part E: Support to Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.


