 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14697

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 05/04/2015

               Country: Mauritania
             Project ID: P082888                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Public Sector                Project Costs (US$M):                     15.00                14.44
                         Capacity Building
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      13.00                12.29
      Sector Board:      Public Sector               Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 07/06/2006
                                                              Closing Date:             12/31/2009          03/29/2014
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (85%); Sub-national government administration (11%);
                          Law and justice (3%); Other social services (1%)
         Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (29%); Administrative and civil
                          service reform (29%); Environmental policies and institutions (14%); Tax policy and
                          administration (14%); Decentralization (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the PAD (p. ii), the objective of the project was "to contribute to the improvement of performance,
    efficiency, and transparency of public resources management in Mauritania.”

    According to the Financing Agreement of July 19, 2006 (p. 6), the objective of the project was “to assist the
    Recipient in implementing key reforms to improve performance, efficiency and transparency of public resources
    management on the territory of the Recipient.”

    This Review will use the PDO in the Loan Agreement as the basis for the validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project consisted of five components:

    Component A: Improvement of public finance management (appraisal estimate US $ 5.14 million, actual costs
    US$ 5.33 million, or 104% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance management tools and
    information systems and build human resources management capacity through the following activities: i)
    strengthening resource mobilization; ii) improving budget presentation and planning; iii) improving budget
    execution and accounting; iv) strengthening the efficiency of expenditure; and v) improving public financial
    management in two regional capitals.
   Component B: Support to local development (appraisal estimate US $ 1.57 million, actual US$ 856,000, or
   54.7% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the decentralization and de-concentration of
   authority through technical assistance to the directorate for territorial administration and the general directorate of
   local governments. Also, this component was to finance information, education, and communication (IEC)
   activities, and pilot projects in Dakhlet Nouadhibou and Traza for local development management.

   Component C: Mainstreaming environment into development management (appraisal estimate US $ 985,000,
   actual US$ 950,000; 96.4% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the enabling of the
   integration of environmental issues in development through harmonization of different strategies and texts.
   Activities to support these efforts were to include technical assistance for the development of a ministry of
   environment, capacity building, and the implementation of pilot projects.

   Component D: Improvement of human resources management in public administration (appraisal estimate US $
   2.29 million, actual US$ 2.80 million; 122.6% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the
   strengthening of management structures for civil servants and maximization of the state’s human resources.
   Activities to support these efforts were to include strengthening of human resources management in public
   administration and modernization of management and information tools used by public administrators.

   Component E: Support to project implementation , monitoring and evaluation (appraisal estimate US $ 970,000;
   actual US$ 1.72 million, or 177.3% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the implementation of
   the project by the project implementation agency, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and communication activities,
   and the provision of technical and financial audits.

   The components were revised during a restructuring on March 29, 2012.

   Component A: Activities to support increased transparency and efficiency in public financial management were
   added. These activities included technical assistance for public procurement reform and to the new coordination
   unit of the ministry of finance to implement the public financial management master plan, as well as assistance to
   the national statistics office to conduct a population and habitat census.

   Component B: Decentralization activities were removed since they were included in a new project that was
   under preparation at that time. Funds were reallocated within the project.

   Component C: Funds became available when development around sand dunes in Nouakchott was cancelled.
   Instead, strategic work for climate change and green growth and for the rehabilitation of the ministry of
   environment was conducted.

   Component D: This component was revised twice. First, it was adapted to provide technical assistance for the
   development of a strategic agenda for the human resource management reform and functional reviews of the
   ministry of finance and the ministry of civil services. Then the project steering committee decided to cancel the
   functional review and instead provide assistance to the operationalization of the human resource management
   reform.

   Component E: This component was adapted to provide additional capacity within the project implementation
   agency.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: At appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$ 15 million, with US$ 13 million from the Bank
   and US$ 2 million from the Government. The actual cost was US$ 14.44 million. The project spent significantly
   less than planned on the second component (decentralization, as those activities were shifted to another project),
   and more than planned on the fifth component (project administration).

   Financing: The project was financed by a US$ 13 million IDA credit, of which US$ 993,000 was cancelled due to
   SDR/USD exchange rate fluctuations and cancellation of two activities.

   Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the estimate for the Recipient's contribution was US$ 2 million. The actual
   contribution was US$ 2.15 million.

   Dates: The project was restructured five times:

        On December 9, 2009 the original closing date of December 31, 2009 was extended to December 31, 2011.
         On December 28, 2011 the closing date was extended by three months to March 29, 2012.
        On March 29, 2012 the closing date was extended by two years to March 29, 2014. Also, funds were
         reallocated among components and the results framework was revised.
        On October 21, 2013 additional minor changes were made to the results framework.
        On February 27, 2014 funds in the amount of 645,000 SDR (US$ 993,000) were cancelled.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The objective to contribute to the improvement of performance, efficiency, and transparency of
   public resources management in Mauritania was relevant given the weaknesses of Mauritania’s public
   accounting systems, revenue collection, and budget planning and execution. In 1986, the government
   implemented a decentralization policy, aiming to move toward autonomous administration by the municipalities.
   While some ministries have shifted a few functions to their units in the regions, decentralization has been rather
   limited.

   The project was in line with the government’s priorities, such as strengthening public financial management,
   moving the decentralization process forward, identifying emerging concerns over sustainable environmental
   management, and improving human resource management. The project was in line with the Bank’s Country
   Assistance Strategy (2006-2009) at the time of appraisal, which focused on improving governance and capacity
   development for public services. The project also supports the second pillar of the Bank's current Country
   Partnership Strategy (2014-2016), which aims to improve economic governance and public sector performance
   for improving service delivery.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The causal relationship between planned interventions and the development objectives, as well as
   underlying assumptions about how some program actions would lead to intended outcomes, were not properly
   laid out. For example, component C aimed to integrate environmental policy into the state development program,
   which was not mentioned in the PDO. Therefore, it is unclear how activities under this component would lead to
   improving the performance, efficiency, and transparency of public resources management in Mauritania. The
   project also supported activities to implement reforms to increase decentralization to the municipalities. The link
   between decentralization to municipalities and improving public financial management is not sufficiently laid out
   in the PAD. Activities under the other components were more logical for achieving the PDO and aimed at
   increasing tax revenue by improving tax collection and establishing a customs information system, and
   increasing transparency and efficiency of public financial management by implementing an automated budget
   expense system. Also, a medium-term budget framework was to be developed to improve budget preparation.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Assist the Recipient in implementing key reforms to improve performance of public resources management :
   Substantial

   Outputs

   Budget
        Seven sectoral and global Mid-Term Budget Frameworks were developed and are being updated on a
         regular basis. However, there continues to be a disconnect between the framework and the budget.
        All ministries use an automated network for expenditure processing (RACHAD) to issue orders of payments,
         achieving the target.
        A network connection between the Treasury and Central Bank is in place, achieving the target.

   Environment
        A National Environment Action Plan was approved by the Government and the dedicated structure
         recommended by the National Environment Action Plan is implemented, achieving the target.
        Over 100 staff from the Ministry of Environment benefited from training.

   Tax
        The tax office was equipped with a computerized revenue management tool, achieving the target.
    Decentralization
         160 staff from the Ministry of Interior were trained to provide support for the decentralization process to
          municipalities, surpassing the target of 150 staff.

    Human Resource Management
         A new computerized human resource management system was developed and implemented.

    Outcomes

    Budget
         Government capacity to make credible budget forecasts has improved. The difference between initial
          expenditure forecasts and actual expenditure decreased from 19.2% in 2011 to 0.8% in 2013. The
          discrepancy between predicted sectoral allocations and effective allocations was reduced from 31.5% in
          2011 to 10.7% in 2013.

    Tax
         Tax collection was improved, with revenues increasing to 269.16 billion ouguiya, surpassing the target of
          211.26 billion ouguiya.

    Human Resource Management
         Human resource records were cleaned up, with irregularities such as ghost workers or double dippers
          identified. This led to a decrease in wage bills from 10.2% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2009 to
          8.8% in 2010 and 8.0% in 2011.


    Assist the Recipient in implementing key reforms to improve efficiency of public resources manageme nt:
    Substantial

    Outputs

    Budget
         Fiscal and accounting reports are produced in a timely manner and in accordance with legislation, achieving
          the target.

    Outcomes

    Budget
         Budget execution was improved through a more efficient payment process at the Treasury. Advice of credit
          is being issued within 36 hours after payment order is approved by the Treasury, achieving the target of 36
          hours.


    Assist the Recipient in implementing key reforms to improve transparency of public resources manag ement:
    Substantial

    Output
      12 pieces of legislation on civil service reform were drafted and approved by the Superior Council of Public
        Service.
      All civil servants were effectively migrated into the new integrated Human Resource Management system,
        surpassing the revised target of 50%.
      At least nine ministries are executing their published procurement plans, surpassing the target of four
        ministries. However, not all sectoral procurement plans cover all public contracts.
      The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority and all sectoral commissions are staffed and operational,
        achieving the target.

    Outcome
      Single-source contracting has decreased from 6% contracts in 2012 to 2.11% in 2014.


5. Efficiency:

    Modest
   Neither the PAD nor the ICR include a formal economic efficiency analysis. The PAD (p. 69) states that the
   project would not finance investments with economically quantifiable benefits. However, the PAD estimates
   cost-effectiveness as high, given that the project was to finance activities that are essential for improving
   inefficiencies in critical areas such as public finance and government human resources management. No
   alternatives for addressing these inefficiencies were identified.

   The ICR (p. 21) states that the project had high returns, especially due to the increase in tax revenue and
   decrease in wage bills for civil servants. Tax revenue increased by US$ 28.2 million dollars within two years due
   to the project’s fiscal census, which cost US$ 185,784. Also, through the civil servants' human resource census
   and revision of data, the wage bill was reduced from 10.2% of GDP in 2009 to 8.0% in 2011. The investment
   cost for these activities was US$ 500,000.

   However, the project's implementation period and supervision budget were twice as high as initially planned due
   to the highly unstable and complex political environment. Initially the project was to be implemented within three
   years, but the closing date was extended several times and the project period ended up being seven years. The
   planned supervision budget was supposed to be 7.4% of the total project budget; however, the actual was 12.8%.
   Procurement challenges (see Section 11b) demanded significant time and attention. These factors indicate less
   than optimally efficient use of project funds.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:


   Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial due to Mauritania’s need to reform its public financial management.
   Relevance of design is rated Modest due to the weak causal relationship between planned interventions and the
   project's development objectives, as well as unclear underlying assumptions about how some program actions
   would lead to intended outcomes. The achievement of all three objectives is rated Substantial, as there is strong
   evidence of increased performance, efficiency, and transparency in the management of public resources.
   Efficiency is rated Modest due to the lack of an economic efficiency analysis and significant delays in project
   implementation. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the project's
   preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   A new Bank project under preparation (Mauritania Public Sector Governance Project) will aim to build on the
   achievements of this public sector capacity building project and continue to improve efficiency and performance
   of public sector institutions. However, there are significant development outcome risks given the country’s
   continuing political and institutional instability. The government’s commitment during implementation was often
   weak, and this lack of commitment might also persist in the future. In addition, the country has been
   experiencing a high turnover in administration and has experienced weak communication between ministries and
   about various reform steps. This has led to resistance to reform and lack of ownership. Therefore, the risk to
   development outcome is significant.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The Bank team prepared the project with the transitional government in a challenging political environment
   after a military coup in 2005. The project's objectives were relevant and aligned with government priorities to
   strengthen public financial management, foster decentralization, improve human resource management for
   public service delivery, and improve sustainable environmental management.

   However, the design of the Results Framework had several significant shortcomings which had a negative
   impact on project implementation and performance (see Section 10). Also, the components were not well
   linked to one other and to the development objectives. While the focus was on public financial management
   and human resource management reform, it is not clear why the project also included a component on
   sustainable environment management.

   The Bank identified several relevant risk factors, including the lack of government support for the reform
   process, changes of priorities after election of the post-transition Government, and technical and financial
   partners not being aligned with the Government’s reform program or the project. However, mitigation efforts
   were not sufficiently robust, and the Bank did not identify how the project would adapt to changing
   circumstances despite the unstable political situation. Also, the planned implementation period was three
   years, which is too short for such a complex project that anticipated reforms across five ministries.

   Even though the PAD emphasizes the importance of coordination with other donors supporting Mauritania in
   its public sector reform, it does not provide clarity on how the Bank would cooperate with other donors to take
   advantage of synergies between different interventions.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team experienced a high turnover rate of Task Team Leaders (TTLs). During the life of the project
   there were five different TTLs, which led to delays.

   From project appraisal until 2012, supervision of the project had several shortcomings. Even though several
   recommendations for restructuring were made in the Implementation Status Reports from 2009 onwards, the
   restructuring to reallocate funds among components and revise the results framework only took place in
   March 2012. Also, ratings for progress towards the achievement of project objectives in the Implementation
   Supervision Reports were too optimistic. The ICR (p. 24) states that the Bank conducted reviews that
   presented a much more positive outlook on project performance than the ones conducted by the
   Implementing Agency. If the Bank’s performance ratings had been more accurate, Bank management and the
   government could have taken earlier steps to address implementation challenges.

   After 2012 until project closing, Bank supervision became more intensive and activities that were inactive
   were started again. Also, the Bank team was supported by an expert on information technology for public
   financial management, an expert on construction to renovate the Ministry of Environment, and an M&E expert
   to review performance data for the entire project.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   From 2006 to 2011, the political situation was unstable and the country experienced two presidential
   elections, a military coup, several transitions to new governments, and cabinet reshuffles. Government co
   mmitment and ownership were therefore limited. The project was initially coordinated at the Prime Minister’s
   Office. However, the anchoring of the project changed three times and ended up in the Ministry of Public
   Service from 2010 onwards. Even though most project funds went to the Ministry of Finance, the project
   steering committee was led by the Ministry of Public Service, which was also in charge of all project contracts.
    This may have diminished the Ministry of Finance’s stewardship role in the reform process and also led to
    delays due to complications in project implementation.

    The two governmental entities directly responsible for the project, the inter-ministerial committee and the
    project steering committee, performed their strategic and oversight roles weakly and did not meet as regularly
    as planned. Also, focal points in the government lacked technical expertise, which had a negative impact on
    the work performed by government departments.

    The ICR does not comment on the government’s role in consulting and involving beneficiaries and
    stakeholders, the government’s compliance with covenants, or its role in coordinating with other donors.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The project was implemented by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that had three different coordinators
    during the life of the project.

    The PCU conducted M&E-related activities despite the shortcomings in the Results Framework, and it
    informed the Bank when implementation of activities was delayed or challenges were identified. According to
    the ICR (pp. 25-26), the PCU was efficient, conversant with Bank practices, and effective throughout the
    lifetime of the project. The PCU successfully achieved its disbursement and fiduciary obligations.

    The project faced procurement-related challenges (see Section 11b). The ICR does not comment on how
    they were addressed by the implementing agency. There was little interaction between the PCU and the focal
    points within the government, largely because the PCU lacked sufficient staff to coordinate with five different
    ministries.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 27) included five PDO-level and 11 intermediate outcome indicators. The
   Results Framework had significant shortcomings: i) the causal relationships between some of the planned
   interventions and the project's development objectives, and underlying assumptions about how program actions
   would lead to intended outcomes, were not properly laid out; and ii) some of the indicators were not sufficiently
   specific, measurable, attributable, results-oriented, or time-bound. For example, PDO indicator 1, “the budget
   preparation is improved," was very broad and difficult to measure. The Results Framework did not include
   indicators to measure results of Component E. Also, the PAD did not define who would be responsible for the
   implementation of M&E activities. Therefore, the M&E design was not well embedded institutionally.

b. M&E Implementation:

   A steering committee was responsible for overseeing the M&E process, but its functions were not clearly defined.
   The ICR (p. 12) states that the project lacked appropriate M&E support. An M&E plan was not developed until
   2008. The M&E expert within the PCU collected M&E data to the greatest extent possible. During the
   restructurings in March 2012 and October 2013, several PDO and intermediate outcome indicators were refined
   to improve the linkages between inputs, outputs, and outcomes. In 2013, the Bank hired a consultant to evaluate
   all results produced during project implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The PCU produced and submitted quarterly financial and M&E reports. The ICR does not comment to what
   extent M&E results contributed to informed decision making and resource reallocation.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Environmental Category C. According to the PAD (p. 17), no safeguards were
   triggered under the project. The ICR does not comment on safeguards.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   According to the ICR (p. 12), financial status reports were thoroughly prepared and submitted on time. The
   accounting system performed satisfactorily, and the auditors found that the internal control procedures were in
   place and issued an unqualified opinion based on the 2012 financial statements.

   Procurement

   The project faced several procurement-related challenges. The procurement commissions responsible for the
   national procurement system lacked capacity. Processes were unclear, as important documents such as
   operational manuals and standard bidding guidelines did not exist. Also, it was unclear which entity was
   responsible for what. This led to delays in project implementation and frequent complaints from bidders. The ICR
   does not comment on how these challenges were addressed by the Bank or the PCU. However, in the
   restructuring of March 2012, procurement for the whole project was put under a single procurement commission
   (replacing the earlier situation where seven different procurement commissions were involved).

   The project supported implementation of several activities to improve the procurement system, including the
   development of standard bidding documents and procedural manuals for all procurement agencies, and the
   provision of training for private and public parties involved in procurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                           ICR                 IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Satisfactory            Moderately              Relevance of design is rated Modest
                                                     Satisfactory           due to unclear underlying assumptions
                                                                            about how some program actions would
                                                                            lead to intended outcomes. Efficiency
                                                                            is rated Modest due to the lack of an
                                                                            economic efficiency analysis and
                                                                            significant delays in project
                                                                            implementation.

        Risk to Development Significant              Significant
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately             Moderately             Shortcomings in the design of the
                              Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory         results framework, insufficient
                                                                            mitigation efforts to address potential
                                                                            risks, and weak supervision until the
                                                                                March 2012 restructuring.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 27) identifies several valuable lessons, including the following:

         In a country with an unstable political environment and weak capacity, it is critical that project design is
          kept simple and objectives are not overly ambitious. In this project, the design included five components
          and five ministries. Also, changes in the architecture of the government led to significant changes in the
          architecture of beneficiaries. This led to challenges in project implementation, project management, and
          coordination with beneficiaries.
         Change management is critical for the successful implementation of a reform project. Innovation and
          changes introduced in this project often led to resistance due to lack of communication and coordination
          between different government stakeholders. Addressing challenges related to change might lead to a
          smoother transition process.
         Projects require a strong Results Framework designed during preparation and implemented during the
          entire project life to ensure accurate progress tracking and identification of bottlenecks. This project
          lacked a well designed Results Framework with a clear linkage between activities, outputs and outcomes.
          Also, M&E responsibilities were not clearly defined, leading to challenges in measuring progress and
          overcoming implementation issues.

    One lesson added by IEG:

         In a politically unstable environment with limited government commitment and ownership, the
          implementation of a Bank project that aims to reform the public sector is likely to be challenging. In this
          project, implementation only really picked up starting in mid-2012, when the political situation became
          more calm and the Bank increased its engagement and supervision. Taking potential delays into account
          during project preparation is prudent.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?
   To explore complex issues related to IT procurement, common to this and other public sector capacity building
   projects.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a very good overview of the changing political environment and project implementation. Also,
    the ICR is in some sections appropriately critical. However, the ICR is lengthy, does not spell out acronyms
    when first used, and could have provided more in-depth information on important areas such as financial
    management, procurement, M&E utilization, and safeguards. Also, the ICR does not provide any kind of
    economic efficiency analysis. The ICR's quality is rated satisfactory, with shortcomings.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
