Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19229
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 35850-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28250-AM
June 16, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
ECA Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 15, 1999)
Currency Unit       =         Armenian Drarn
US$1                           D543
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBA       Central Bank of Armenia
GOA       Government of Armenia
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MOFE       Ministry of Finance and the Economy
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SAC I      First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC II     Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC       Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA      Stand-By Arrangement
TA      Technical Assistance
UK      United Kingdom
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader:    Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Team Leader:      Cyril Muller, Sr. Country Officer, ECCO3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 35850-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28250-AM
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................                                                        i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Objectives, Background and D-cription .1
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                .4
C.       Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project         .5
D.  Project Sustainability                                 .8
E.  Bank Performance                                     .8
F.  Borrower Performnance                                  .0
G.  Assessment of Outcome .                   1
H.  Future Operations .1
I.    Key Lessons Learned .............                                                 11
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .............................................          14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .............................................              15
Table 3: Project Timetable .............................................               16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................  18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................      19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................                        19
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................,,,,.,.,.,.... . .,,,,.,... 20
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................,,,,,.,.,.,.,                           21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..,,,,,,, 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .......................                            22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .,                             22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................,.,,.,,.,.,,.,,.,.,.22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .                                                   23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
B. QAG Summary for the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 35850-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28250-AM
Preface
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers two operations in Armenia: the
Institution Building Loan (IBL) for $12 million, approved by the Board on March 30, 1993,
signed on April 7, 1993, and made effective on June 15, 1993; and the Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC) for SDR 2.6 million ($3.8 million), approved on February
29, 1996, signed on March 4, 1996, and made effective on March 22, 1996. The IBL closed on
November 30, 1997, one year after the original closing date and the SATAC will close on
December 31, 1999, two years after the original closing date. The time period covered by this
ICR is end-1992 to mid-1999.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll as a desk
assignment, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. Mr. Wafik Grais
was the Division Chief responsible at the time of the IBL and Ms. Judy O'Connor was the Country
Director for Armenia and had overall responsibility for monitoring progress of the two operations
until close. Messrs. Cyril Muller (Sr. Country Officer, second Task Manager for IBL and Task
Manager for SATAC, ECCO3), Onno Ruhl (ECSPF, first Task Manager for IBL), Chris Hall
(ECCO9), Jonathan Walters (ECSEG), and Pervaiz Rashid (ECSPE) provided comments. Mmes.
Cheryl Martin (ECC03) and Frances Rosenthal (ECSPE) provided support and comments for the
ICR. Messrs. Rashid and Muller reviewed this ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 35850-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28250-AM
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The Institution Building Loan (IBL) for $12 million was the first Bank operation in
Armenia and was approved by the Board on March 30, 1993, signed on April 7, 1993, and made
effective on June 15, 1993. The Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC)
for $3.8 million was paired with the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) and was approved
on February 29, 1996, signed on March 4, 1996, and made effective on March 22, 1996. The
two operations are combined in this ICR because they represent a series of very closely related
technical assistance (TA) operations leading up to and concurrent with the Rehabilitation Credit
and the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
2.    The objective of the IBL was to assist the Govermnent of Armenia (GOA) in
strengthening the institutional basis for economic reform through institution building programs
in four functional areas: economic management, resource mobilization, enterprise reform, and
financial sector reform. The IBL supported efforts of the Rehabilitation Credit which was later
approved in February 1995. The objectives of the SATAC were to finance consultancies and
equipment in support of the GOA's reform program to stabilize the economy and create
conditions for resumption of growth and improving living standards.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overview
3.    The IBL was launched in a very challenging environment that included the conflict in
Nagorno Karabakh, earthquake damage, and the shock of separation from the Soviet Union.
Although the need for technical assistance in Armenia after independence was very broad, the
IBL was limited to four priority areas of capacity building (loan amounts in millions): (a)
Economic Management; (b) Resource Mobilization; (c) Enterprise Reform; and (d) Financial
Sector Reform.
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Institution Building Loan (IBL) and the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit (SATAC) covers actions and events in Armenia relating to these two operations from IBL preparation, until mid-1999.



- ii -
4.    The external environment had improved considerably by the time SATAC was prepared.
The Armenians had gained experience in managing projects and a Rehabilitation Credit had been
implemented. SATAC focused on four key areas (credit amounts in millions): (a) Privatization
and Post-Privatization; (b) Financial Sector; (c) Civil Service Reforn; and (d) Resource
Mobilization.
Summary of Accomplishments
5.    On implementation progress and development objectives, the IBL was consistently rated
as satisfactory except for a few months when Nagorno Karabakh hostilities affected Bank
operations. The Resource Mobilization component and the Project management aspects of the
IBL sometimes achieved highly satisfactory ratings. SATAC was also rated satisfactory
throughout implementation, on implementation progress and development objectives, but several
times with qualifications. On a couple of occasions the civil service reform component slipped
to an unsatisfactory rating. The major accomplishments of the two projects include:
Economic Management
* Purchase of equipment, mainly computers so that key departments at ministries would have
necessary technology to carry out tasks.
* Built up capacity to deal with foreign funded projects, including procurement and
disbursement.
* Initiated a new culture of economic management, where none had existed.
Resource Mobilization
* Successful computerization of customs (and to a lesser extent, tax administration), which led
to a sustainable increase in customs revenue.
• Customs Department restructuring, improved enforcement and greater capture of revenues
with 1996 revenues reaching 6 billion Drams, a 100 percent increase over 1995.
Enterprise Reform
* Assisted the sale of small assets (ownership transfer) through general privatization program.
* Financed auction centers for the sale of medium and large-scale enterprises.
* Met targets for preparation of enterprises for privatization.
* Supported privatization of 10 strategic enterprises, notably, telecom, cognac and hotel
enterprises.
Financial Sector Reform
* Helped the Central Bank of Armenia develop its capacity in banking supervision
* Supplied equipment to the Treasury department (established with International Monetary
Fund-IMF TA)
* Privatized four state-owned banks



- ii -
6.   In accomplishing these goals there was some reallocation between cost categories of the
IBL and SATAC. As implementation progressed, for example, it was clear that the Resource
Mobilization component of IBL would need additional resources for equipment and expertise,
and Economic Management would need less, because other sources of funding became available
for some of the activities. Under SATAC, the Civil Service Reforn component was dropped
because the Government secured grant funding from UNDP and the United Kingdom (UK) for that
activity. This activity was also covered on the Bank side because it prepared a civil service
assessment as a separate Bank product and is currently conducting a National Institutional Review.
Second, a $400,000 drinking water component was added. It provided for financial and economic
analysis of national water companies and for metering equipment. Although this new component
appeared unrelated to the type of activities supported under SATAC, it supported and gave a head
start to priority follow-up work that had been identified for the second Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC II). Additional details are found in Table 8.
7.   In summary, the objectives of IBL and the SATAC were largely accomplished by the
respective, extended closing. For SATAC, all project funds are committed and are expected to
be disbursed by project close, December 31, 1999. The performances of the IBL and SATAC are
rated satisfactory. This rating is consistent with the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment
of SATAC (Annex B). The performance of the two credits should be viewed together as a part
of a continuous effort to develop institutional capacity and to support the Rehabilitation Credit,
SAC I and SAC II, effective in March 1995, March 1996, and September 1997, respectively,
which supported reforms to return the Armenian economy to the path of sustainable growth.
Bank Performance
8.    The Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Bank was able to identify
priority areas for capacity development in a country that had very little institutional capacity.
There were frequent supervisions and using the core country team ensured that the TA was
coordinated with evolving sectoral priorities. The TAs were managed flexibly so that funds
could be reallocated to more important activities. The main area where the Bank miscalculated
was the employment services component, which turned out to be unnecessary (section E.). One
other area that could be improved is the establishment of more detailed monitorable indicators.
The Bank could have better assessed the impact of the TAs, for example, in financial sector
reform and privatization if more specific, quantifiable impact measures had been tracked during
implementation.
Borrower Performance
9.    GOA accomplished most of its objectives specified under the loan and the credit and its
performance is considered satisfactory. Performance was especially good in the Enterprise
Reform and Resource Mobilization components. Borrower performance could have been
substantially better, however, with respect to politicizing some of the foreign TA and placing
obstacles in the way of foreign TA contracts. GOA's toughness on TA was appropriate in the
cancellation the legal reform consultant contract. Other areas where borrower perfornance could
have been better, e.g.,excessive audits, the cumbersome procurement process, etc., are detailed in
section C.



- iv -
Future Operations
10.   The sequence of the IBL and SATAC (the latter combined with the SAC 1) was followed
by SATAC II, which was approved with SAC II (scheduled to close on June 30, 1999). SAC III
was the immediate follow-up operation, effective December 1998.  SAC  III supports
Government efforts to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay foundations for sustained
private-sector led growth over the medium term.
Lessons Learned
11.   The main lessons learned from the experiences with IBL and SATAC are:
* Project design in a new country. In a country that is newly independent, new to the Bank,
and operating under a system that was radically different from the system it now wanted, the
need for TA is broad and deep and cannot possibly be satisfied by a single project. Therefore,
the areas for intervention must be prioritized. The areas cannot be too many as to be
unmanageable, but they must be sufficient to achieve a critical mass, or sustainable process. A
sustainable process was achieved in Armenia by targeting those areas that needed to be
strengthened to support the core policy initiatives. These core policy initiatives were essentially
standardized for former Soviet Union countries and included resource mobilization,
privatization and economic management.
* Advantage/Disadvantage of a tight timetable. The disadvantage of the tight timetable is the
increased likelihood of the need for extensions of project closing date in order to accomplish
project objectives. This disadvantage is acceptable if the tight timetable helps focus the country
on the needed reforms and other commitments at a time when the country is most disposed to
reform, that is, when there is economic adversity.
* Reform mindedness a key to effective utilization of TA. Although the environment was
new to the Bank and the ways of doing business were new to Armenia, the technical
assistance was effectively absorbed because Armenia was committed to reforms
*  Counterpart quality. The capability and commitment of the counterpart is a prerequisite to a
successful reforn program. Officials of the GOA were able to understand, contribute to and
commit to a comprehensive reform program and were able to make effective use of the TA
resoiurces.
* Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Armenia required
close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teams.
* Composition of supervision teams. Supervision teams that are comprised of the key sector
experts give the best assurance that TA, especially stand alone TA, will be directed toward the
top sectoral priorities. This allocation maximizes efficiency and effectiveness the TA.
*  Implemenk-tion flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan/credit proceeds. Flexibility on
project components during implementation is important to maximize the project's positive



- v -
impact in changing circumstances, e.g., reallocating project funds to other uses when
component objectives can be achieved without project funds as in the case of Public Sector
Reform and Commercial Bank Work-Outs.
*  Firm stance on extensions. The Bank should weigh the possible affects of multiple extensions
of projects, especially when the Government, at times, does not show sufficient support for
implementation. A firm stance often heightens compliance with subsequent agreements.
Although the Bank challenged the cumbersome internal decision-making process, the
consultant tax and excessive audits, it may have lost some leverage by granting three extensions
to SATAC.
* Government commitment to using TA. Government selectivity and ownership of TA is
critical to its success. Because, as the case of Armenia demonstrated, foreign TA is a politically
vulnerable input, the Government must have a strong justification for and commitment to the
use of TA.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 35850-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit No. 28250-AM
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Objectives, Background and Project Description
1.    This ICR covers two operations in Armenia: The Institution Building Loan (IBL) for $12
million, approved by the Board on March 30, 1993, signed on April 7, 1993, and made effective
on June 15, 1993; and the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC) for $3.8
million, approved on February 29, 1996, signed on March 4, 1996, and made effective on March
22, 1996. The two operations are combined in this ICR because they represent a series of very
closely related technical assistance (TA) operations leading up to and concurrent with the
Rehabilitation Credit and the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
Objectives
2.    The IBL was the first operation by the World Bank in Arnenia. The objective of the IBL
was to assist the Government of Armenia (GOA) in strengthening the institutional basis for
economic reform through institution building prograrns in four functional areas: economic
management, resource mobilization, enterprise reform, and financial sector reform. The IBL
supported efforts of the Rehabilitation Credit which was later approved in February 1995.
Indicators of development impact to be accomplished by the end of the project were added
during November 1995 supervision: (a) free market economic reform policy is approved by
Parliament; (b) share of private sector investment in total GDP increases to 15 percent; and
number of programs submitted to multilaterals goes up by 35 percent.
3.    The objectives of the SATAC were to finance consultancies and equipment in support of
the GOA's reform program to stabilize the economy and create conditions for resumption of
growth and improving living standards. The TA focussed on four key areas: privatization and
post-privatization, financial sector restructuring, civil service reform and resource mobilization.
SATAC supported the activities under the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) with which it
was paired. Indicators of development impact were: implementing and economic reform
program on a timely basis which leads to sustained growth and lower inflation, privatization of
all SMEs with medium and subjecting large enterprises to financial discipline, improved capacity
of banks to deal with bad debts, civil service reform, increase customs revenues by 100 percent
in 1996 over 1995.



-2 -
Background
IBL (up to approval, March 1993)
4.    Armenia declared independence on September 23, 1991. Armenia joined the IBRD in
September 1992 at a time when it was facing extreme economic adversity. In 1992, Armenia's
GNP per capita fell by half from $2,150 to just over $1,000. The reasons for the precipitous
decline were mostly related to the shock of separation from the Soviet Union, Armenia's legacy
of State directed economic activity, the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict, combined with its
disadvantageous landlocked position and small population (3.7 million):
* The Nagorno-Karabakh war cut off rail and road links through Azerbaijan to the rest of the
Soviet economy on which Armenia depended for energy.
*  Unrest in Georgia severed Armenia's remaining road and rail trading routes.
*  With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Armenia lost its main economic activity of
processing intermediate goods from other republics, because this activity was predicated on
artificially low prices for energy, raw materials and transport.
- The 1988 earthquake destroyed up to 40 percent of manufacturing capacity and left hundreds
of thousands homeless.
5.    To break out of steep economic decline, GOA launched a series of reforms including
privatization of agricultural land, price liberalization except for bread and utilities, elimination of
export taxes and import restrictions, and the beginnings of banking reform and enterprise
privatization. Despite GOA's reform-minded approach, the macroeconomy, for reasons cited
above, and because of continued monetary and fiscal interdependence in the ruble area, remained
unstable. It was within this environment of economic distress, but strong reform commitment
that the GOA and the World Bank launched the IBL.
SATAC (IBL approval to SATAC approval, March 1993-January 1996)
6.    Armenia's domestic inflation soared due to its membership in the ruble area, as member
countries, including Armenia, pursued expansionary monetary and fiscal policies. The policies
created hyperinflation in late 1993, in spite of the introduction of a new national currency, the
Dram, and reached 900 percent for the last two months of the year. By the second quarter of
1994, however, the GOA pursued contractionary fiscal and monetary policies and by 1995,
inflation averaged 2 percent per month. After a 60 percent decline in GDP during 1991-93, the
economy rebounded with 5.4 percent growth in 1994 and 6.9 percent in 1995. Although
inflation declined and the economy began to grow, poverty was pervasive with consumption
levels barely above subsistence. Old age pensions were the equivalent of $5 per month in 1995,
while monthly wages in the state sector were $8-17.



-3 -
Description
IBL
7.    The GOA recognized that it lacked the necessary experience and institutional capacity to
design and implement structural reforms and manage a private sector economy. The IBL was
designed to help build these capacities. The IBL addressed skills needs in four major areas and
eight sub-areas. These areas with original loan allocations were (in millions):
I.    Economic Management (Subtotal $5.38)
Economic Policy Formulation/Aid Coordination ($1.24)
Legal and Regulatory Framework ($0.93)
Social Safety Net/Employment Issues ($3.21)
II.   Resource Mobilization (Subtotal $2.07)
Tax Administration ($0.466)
Customs Administration/Trade Facilitation ($1.60)
III.   Enterprise Reform (Subtotal $5.21)
Support for Privatization ($4.88)
Support for Public Sector Enterprise Reform ($0.33)
IV.   Financial Sector Reform (Subtotal $2.58)
8.    Estimated project costs were $15.2 million plus $2 million unallocated for a total of $17.2
million of which the IBRD financed $12 million, the U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID) $3.7 million, the European Commission (EC) $1.0 million and the GOA $0.5 million.
The IBRD loan was 90 percent disbursed by project close ($1.26 million was cancelled).
9.    The original closing date was November 30, 1996, which was extended to November 30,
1997. Project accounts were maintained by the project manager under the Ministry of Economy
(Foreign Economic Relations Department).
SATAC
10.   The SATAC was paired with SAC I and provided TA in four areas covering six sub-
areas:
I.    Privatization and Post-Privatization ($1.00)
Preparation of enterprises for privatization ($0.55)
Liquidation advisory assistance ($0.25)
Training in bankruptcy procedures ($0.20)
II.   Financial Sector ($0.70)
Pilot work out program in two commercial banks ($0.50)
Bank resolution unit advisor ($0.20)
III.   Civil Service Reform ($.35)
Public service review and functional reviews of key ministries ($0.35)
IV.   Resource Mobilization ($1.50)
Establishment of National Training Center
Anti-smuggling/anti-fraud program



- 4 -
Computerization of Customs and Tax Administration
Review of customs procedures
11.  IDA financing was $3.8 million. GOA financing was $0.30 million for total project costs
of $4.1 million. The expected closing date was December 31, 1997, but was extended thrice,
first to December 31, 1998, then to June 30, 1999, and finally to December 31, 1999. Project
accounts were maintained by the project manager under the Ministry of Economy (Aid
Coordination and Management Center).
B. Achievement of Objectives
12.   On development objectives, the IBL and SATAC were consistently rated as satisfactory
throughout the projects' lives.  The Resource Mobilization component and the project
management of the IBL sometimes achieved highly satisfactory ratings. In reviewing both
achievement of objectives and implementation record (section C.), it is important to keep in mind
that the IBL was the first operation in Armenia which was newly independent and had been
plagued by war and economic crisis. Therefore, the initiatives under the IBL were launched in a
very new and challenging environment. Moreover, the Bank was attempting to facilitate a major
transition from a centrally planned to an open, free market system
Summary of Major Accomplishments Under IBL and SATAC
13.   The Govermment made significant progress on all major fronts associated with the IBL
and the SATAC as the following summary of actions shows:
Economic Management
*  Purchase of equipment, mainly comp-uters so that key departments at ministries would have
necessary technology to carry out tasks.
. Built up capacity to deal with foreign funded projects, including procurement and
disbursement.
*  Initiated a new culture of economic management, where none hau existed.
Resource Mobilization
* Successful computerization of customs (and to a lesser extent, tax administration), which led
to a sustainable increase in customs revenue.
* Customs Department restructuring, improved enforcement and greater capture of revenues
with 1996 revenues reaching 6 billion Drains, a 100 percent increase over 1995.
Enterprise Reform
* Assisted the sale of small assets (ownership transfer) through general privatization program
* Financed auction centers for the sale of medium and large-scale enterprises.
* Met targets for preparation of enterprises for privatization.



- 5 -
* Supported privatization of 10 strategic enterprises, notably, telecom, cognac and hotel
enterprises.
Financial Sector Reform
* Helped Central Bank of Annenia develop its capacity in banking supervision
* Supplied equipment to Treasury department (established with International Monetary Fund-
IMF TA)
* Privatized four state-owned banks
14.  In achieving these reforms, there was some reallocation between cost categories of the
IBL and SATAC. As implementation progressed, for example, it was clear that the Resource
Mobilization component of IBL would need additional resources for equipment and expertise,
and Economic Management would need less, because employment services were not relevant
($3.21 million) other sources of funding became available for some of the activities. Under
SATAC, the Civil Service Reforn component was dropped because the Government secured grant
funding from UNDP and the United Kingdom (UK) for that activity. This activity was also
covered on the Bank side because it prepared a civil service assessment as a separate Bank product
and is currently conducting a National Institutional Review. Second, a $400,000 drinking water
component was added. It provided for financial and economic analysis of national water
companies and for metering equipment. Although this new component appeared unrelated to the
type of activities supported under SATAC, it supported and gave a head start to priority follow-up
work that had been identified for the second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC lI). Additional
details are found in Table 8.
15.  In summary, the objectives of IBL and the SATAC were largely accomplished by the
respective, extended closing. For SATAC, all project funds are committed and are expected to
be disbursed by project close, December 31, 1999. The performances of the IBL and SATAC are
rated satisfactory. This rating is consistent with the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment
of SATAC (Annex B). The performance of the two credits should be viewed together as a part
of a continuous effort to develop institutional capacity and to support the Rehabilitation Credit,
SAC I and SAC II, effective in March 1995, March 1996, and September 1997, respectively,
which supported reforms to return the Armenian economy to the path of sustainable growth.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Overview
IBL
16.   On implementation progress and development objectives, the IBL was consistently rated
as satisfactory except for a few months when Nagomo Karabakh hostilities affected Bank
operations. The Resource Mobilization component and the Project management aspects of the
IBL sometimes achieved highly satisfactory ratings.



- 6 -
17.   The IBL started slowly with disbursements lagging seriously behind. As a result of the
economic blockade during the first year of the IBL, the environment was not favorable to
reforms. Two years into effectiveness (June 1995), the MOP forecasted 74.2 percent or $8.9
million disbursement, whereas actual disbursement was only 27.3 percent or $3.3 million.
Specific implementation problems early on included unsatisfactory consultant performance for
legal reform (see Factors Generally Subject to Government Control), and delays in the TA to
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (until March 1995), attributable to reshuffling of staff at
the Ministry.
18.   Although disbursement was slow early in the project, the IBL was effectively providing
necessary TA to support the Government's reform program for all four components, especially in
the areas of privatization and enterprise restructuring, computerization of customs and tax
administration (resource mobilization component), training large numbers of staff in their fields,
in computer skills and in international languages, and to improve Public Investment
Programming.
19.   By year three of the project (June 1996), disbursement had accelerated to an actual 55.8
percent ($6.6 million) against the MOP forecast of 98.8 percent ($11.8 million).  This
acceleration was stimulated by activities under the Rehabilitation Credit which was effective in
March 1995. By year four, six months into the one-year extension, IBL had almost fully caught
up having disbursed 94 percent of the loan. The major accomplishments were improved resource
mobilization through tax and customs administration and more rapid privatization of enterprises.
Growth of the Armenian economy resumed and was sustained during 1995-97 at about 5 percent
which was the expected outcome of achieving the objectives.
20.   There was no mid-term review and the development objectives remained the same.
SATAC
21.   SATAC  was consistently rated satisfactory throughout implementation, both on
implementation progress and development objectives, but several times with qualifications. On a
couple of occasions the civil service reform component slipped to an unsatisfactory rating.
Although the reform program which it supported wvas going well, especially in the areas of
privatization and improved financial discipline for enterprises, disbursement of SATAC, like
IBL, began slowly. Only 29 percent ($1.02 million) disbursed two years into the project
compared with a MOP forecast of 100 percent ($3.80 million). Implementation accelerated in
the laiier part of 1998, during the first extension. Still, almost three years into the project,
disbursements had reached less than 60 percent. Two more extensions were requested and
granted, until June 30, 1999 and then December 31, 1999.
22.   The report from the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated all major aspects of the
implementation of SATAC "satisfactory" with the overall assessment at entry rated as
"satisfactory" (Annex B).
23.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. The Nagorno-Karabakh war
set back implementation of the IBL by a year or more. Hostilities broke out again in October
1993 just as the IBL was getting underway. Reforms had been rapid immediately after



- 7 -
independence and before the war. Although reforms had stopped, they were not rolled back
during the war. The unrest also made it difficult to hire consultants because they were reluctant
to be involved in such an unstable situation. Once the parties achieved a cease fire, the economic
reform program took off again.
24.   Factors generally subject to Government control. One criticism of the legal reform
component was the weak consultant performance. The Government had assurance that its
selection of the consultant for legal reform was justified because of the good reputation of the
firm. Unfortunately, in this instance, the firrn provided inexperienced people and did not
customize legal advice to the particular needs of Armenia.  The Government followed
procurement rules, but the end result of the consultancy was a more or less prefabricated, western
legal model, untailored to the Armenian context. While the Government cannot reasonably be
considered at fault for selection of the consultant, it might have been better to terminate the
contract sooner. In fact, the GOA was ahead of the Bank in this regard.
25.   The Government also set back implementation by instituting a new procurement process
when SATAC was starting. The new procurement process was cumbersome with each line
ministry having to sign off on each activity. In addition, the evaluation committees were
required to include high level staff, even for small contracts. This process was an important
factor in necessitating the three extensions. Other measures by the Government that were
unhelpful to implementation were the move to impose a tax liability on consultants, which
slowed the Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) processing of contracts between June 1997 and
October 1998, and the GOA's multiple demands for audits.  These audits proved very
burdensome to the PIU. At one point, March 1998, the Constitutional Court subpoenaed records
from the IBL which amounted to 60 boxes full of materials. Such actions had a paralyzing affect
on the PIU (which was also running SATAC) whose staff were intimidated from conducting
normal daily business. Staff were occupied also by having to give testimony.
26.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The Ministry of Economy
worked well with the Bank and, on its own initiative, established a foreign aid coordination unit
which facilitated implementation of IBL and SATAC. The PIU worked diligently and learned
Bank practices quickly. The division of responsibility where the PIU concentrated on daily
operations and the Ministry handled conceptual issues worked well. Although the PIU
implemented effectively, there was one violation of rules of procurement of consulting services
in which one contractor subcontracted local staff who were state employees.  These
subcontracted state employees were not listed in the contract approved by the Bank. The amount
involved was a small percentage of a larger $400,000 contract. The Chamber of Control of the
National Assembly discovered the violation and for a substantial period of time during mid-
1997, PIU staff cooperated with additional audits and investigations. The Internal Auditing
Department (IAD) of the Bank concluded that there was "evidence of non-compliance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines" under this contract and recommended that "the Region consider
including loans and credits to the Republic of Armenia in its recently-instituted system of
procurement audits."



- 8 -
D. Project Sustainability
27.   The Bank and the GOA have set in motion an ongoing process of capacity building that
supports a successful structural reform program. Sustainability of the IBL/SATAC initiatives as
a whole is promoted because most of the measures are in place and are mutually reinforcing.
Resource Mobilization and Privatization activities are especially promising. The GOA has
established a new Ministry of Privatization which has continued the preparation of enterprises for
privatization and has met Bank/GOA targets. Despite some slippages in implementation due to
excessive red tape and personnel changes, overall continued progress in implementing the
objectives of IBL and SATAC has been satisfactory. Future planned operations (see section H.)
support a continued process of reform that will promote and accommodate a growing private
sector.
E. Bank Performance
28.   This section reviews the major issues of Bank performance on the basis of what was a
reasonable standard at the time and what would have been the best course in retrospect. In
general, it can be said that the Bank, in its early operations in Armenia, responded with TA that
was relevant to Armenia's needs and built up management capacity and enabled key reforms for
transition to a private sector based economy.
* The Bank identified key constraints to reform implementation
The Bank was faced with an economy that had very little institutional capacity and had to
design a program that was both feasible and supported the priority areas. With a small
number of components, the IBL and SATAC were easier to implement. The components
of resource mobilization and enterprise reform and privatization were particularly
suicessfial. The economnic maanagement and financial sector components were not as
successful as originally conceived, but did provide badly needed resources, computers,
etc., to functional ministries.
• The IBL should have been a credit at the start
The IBL was a standard product for Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries, and at the
time, Arnenia was considered relatively well-off and did not qualify for IDA funding.
As the Bank gained a clearer picture of the Armenian economy, it was evident that
Armenia should be eligible for IDA resources. Subsequent lending to Armenia has been
on IDA terms.
* The TA was closely coordinated with evolving sectoral priorities
The Bank tean involved with the IBL and SATAC was composed of the country team,
the most expert people the Bank had on each sector in Armenia. Thus, it was guaranteed
that the TA delivered by IBL and SATAC would match the Bank's sectoral priorities in
Armnenia. This feature was an especially good accomplishment for a stand alone TA such
as IBL.



- 9 -
* The Bank overestimated the degree of employment services that would be demanded in a
collapsing economy
The reasons for the lower demand were that the participation rate, mainly of Mwomen,
dropped, people retained their nominal official employment, even at the token wages,
vast numbers joined the informal sector, and there was simply very little new
employment generated by the economy. All these factors led to a low demand for
employment services.  The Bank, thus, allocated too much of the loan to that
subcomponent ($3.21 million), which could have been better allocated elsewhere.
* Coordination between the Bank and the IMF was effective
The messages from the Bank and the Fund were consistent. IBL resources were able to
complement IMF activities. For example, the Armenian Treasury was set up under TA
from the IMF, while the computers were funded by the Bank.
* The Bank demonstrated flexibility with respect to developments and initiatives in Armenia
Because the Bank did not know much about Armenia and wanted to ensure that loan
proceeds went to the highest return activities, it managed the TAs according to the
evolving conditions in Armenia. When it was clear that the demand for employment
services would not materialize, for example, that component of IBL was cancelled. Thus,
an additional $1 million could be allocated for preparation of enterprises for privatization,
specifically, the strategic privatization effort. When the GOA received grant financing
for the Public Sector Reform component under SATAC, the Bank agreed to finance other
activities with the freed up funds. The Bank also accomrnmodated the local Armenian
initiative to conduct their own work-out program of troubled financial institutions and the
resources for that component were also freed up under SATAC.
- The Bank committed to an overly ambitious timetable for implementation
As evidenced by the multiple extensions of the projects and with knowledge of working
in a new member country that was in economic and political turmoil, the timetable clearly
was too tight. The Bank's rationale was to keep the Armenian authorities focused on the
capacity building activities necessary for the transition to a private economy.
* The Bank was favorable to granting extensions to a project, even when agencies in the GOA
took measures that significantly slowed implementation
Given the multiple requests for audits of the PIU, the consultant tax issue, the animosity
toward foreign TA, etc., the Bank might have been wiser not to extend SATAC three
times. Although some productive modifications were worked out, the Bank might have
gained a stronger position for the future had it taken a stronger stand on further
extensions.



- 10-
* The Bank intensively supervised both projects which made it easier to increase the projects'
responsiveness to local conditions
Because it was the first project in the new member country, Bank staff foresaw the
necessity of intensive supervision of IBL. This close and frequent contact with the
project allowed for efficient adjustments in the project. For example, as Bank staff
learned more about local capacity, they realized that local staff could carry out a greater
share of the consulting needed for preparing enterprises for privatization. Money could
be saved by not having to hire relatively expensive foreign consultants, which freed funds
to carry out the strategic privatization effort, which was not envisaged at appraisal.
* Additional performance indicators were needed for monitoring impact
Additional quantifiable performance indicators would have improved project monitoring. A
systematic tracking of indicators, for example, in the financial sector and in privatization support,
would have helped the Bank better assess the impact of the TAs.
* The cost of implementing the IBL and SATAC was modest given the amount of supervision
Supervision costs were kept low because Bank staff combined supervision visits to
Armenia with those of neighboring countries. In addition, because the supervision teams
were essentially the country team, they could distribute costs among other sector projects
they were administering, including, later the SACs. Excessively long supervision reports
were also avoided.
29.   In summary, the Bank coped well with the challenges of a new country in difficult
circumstances undergoing a radical transformation. The Bank worked well the Armenian
authorities to adapt the TA according to changing conditions and uLe Bank became more
knowledgeable of Armenia and its capacities.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   As measured by its commitment to effectively utilize the resources under IBL and
SATAC to develop the capacity to carry out structural reforms, GOA performance is considered
satisfactory.  The Government committed to a detailed program  of interventions and
accomplished most of its objectives specified under the loan and the credit. Performance was
especially good in the Enterprise Reform and Resource Mobilization components. The vast
majority of small and medium scale enterprises were transferred to the private sector, the
Preparation of Enterprises for Privatization under SATAC was successfully completed using
remaining IBL funds, and a newly created Ministry of Privatization continued the preparation of
enterprises and met Bank/GOA targets. Tax and customs administration was computerized and
receipts increased substantially during the projects.
31.   Borrower performance could have been substantially better, however, with respect to
certain foreigii TA. The GOA, particularly after the September 1996 elections, could have done



- 11 -
more to de-politicize foreign TA by some opponents and the press. Detractors of foreign TA
accentuated the bad examples (e.g., the legal reform consultancy), ignored the good (the strategic
privatization consultancy), and damaged implementation, particularly of SATAC by placing
obstacles in the way of foreign TA contracts. GOA's toughness on TA was appropriate in the
cancellation the legal reform consultant contract (before any suggestion from the Bank). Other
areas where borrower performance could have been better, e.g.,excessive audits, the cumbersome
procurement process, etc., are detailed in section C.
32.   The PIU, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts for IBL/SATAC in
accordance with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the projects would be audited
within four months of Bank request. Government compliance with legal covenants under
IBL/SATAC was considered satisfactory, with the exception noted in section C. above.
G. Assessment of Outcome
33.   The overall performance and outcome of both the IBL and SATAC was satisfactory, as
the majority of specific measures, and therefore the major objectives of the projects, were
achieved and assessed to be sustainable. This rating is consistent with both the QAG rating at
entry (Satisfactory) for SATAC and the rating by EC4C2 for IBL and ECSPE for SATAC of
meeting development objectives (Form 590) for both projects (also Satisfactory). Because they
were not investment operations, calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and
economic rates of return for either project is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
34.   The sequence of the IBL and SATAC (the latter combined with the SAC I) was followed
by SATAC II, which was approved with SAC II (scheduled to close on December 31, 1999).
SAC III was the immediate follow-up operation, effective December 1998. SAC III supports
Government efforts to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay foundations for sustained
private-sector led growth over the medium term.
I. Key Lessons Learned
35.   The main lessons learned are:
* Project design in a new country. In a country that is newly independent, new to the Bank,
and operating under a system that was radically different from the system it now wanted, the
need for TA is broad and deep and cannot possibly be satisfied by a single project. Therefore,
the areas for intervention must be prioritized. The areas cannot be too many as to be
unmanageable, but they must be sufficient to achieve a critical mass, or sustainable process. A
sustainable process was achieved in Armenia by targeting those areas that needed to be
strengthened to support the core policy initiatives. These core policy initiatives were essentially
standardized for former Soviet Union countries and included resource mobilization,
privatization and economic management.



-12 -
*  Reform mindedness a key to effective utilization of TA. Although the environment was
new to the Bank and the ways of doing business were new to Armenia, the technical
assistance was effectively absorbed because Armenia was committed to reforms
*  Counterpart quality. The capability and commitment of the counterpart is a prerequisite to a
successful reform program. Officials of the GOA were able to understand, contribute to and
commit to a comprehensive reform program and were able to make effective use of the TA
resources.
*  Advantage/Disadvantage of a tight timetable. The disadvantage of the tight timetable is the
increased likelihood of the need for extensions of project closing date in order to accomplish
project objectives. This disadvantage is acceptable if the tight timetable helps focus the country
on the needed reforms and other commitments at a time when the country is most disposed to
reform, that is, when there is economic adversity.
*  Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Armenia required
close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teams.
*  Composition of supervision teams. Supervision teams that are comprised of the key sector
experts give the best assurance that TA, especially stand alone TA, will be directed toward the
top sectoral priorities. This allocation maximizes efficiency and effectiveness the TA.
*  Implementation flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan/credit proceeds. Flexibility on
project components during implementation is important to maximize the project's positive
impact in changing circumstances, e.g., reallocating project funds to other uses when
component objectives can be achieved without project funds as in the case of Public Sector
Reform and Commercial Bank Work-Outs.
*  Firm stance on extensions. The Bank should weigh the possible affects of multiple extensions
of projects, especially when the Government, at times, does not show sufficient support for
implementation.  A firm stance often heightens compliance with subsequent agreements.
Although the Bank challenged the cumbersome internal decision-making process, the
consultant tax and excessive audits, it may have lost some leverage by granting three extensions
to SATAC.
* Government commitment to using TA. Government selectivity and ownership of TA is
critical to its success. Because, as the case of Armenia demonstrated, foreign TA is a politically
vulnerable input, the Government must have a strong justification for and commitment to the
use of TA.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (for IBL and SATAC)
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      Li              L                Li
Sector Policies                                     El 0      
Financial Objectives                L               a                Li
Institutional Development           0                3                                IZO
Physical Objectives                 0               3                0                 0
Poverty Reduction                   L               L                0i
Gender Issues                         ll                                              I  i
Other Social Objectives               ii 3                           a                 a
Environmental Objectives            C               [                (=1
Public Sector Management            C                E               E                 El
Private Sector Development            J                              1 ChI
Other (specify)                     Li              Cl               L                 E
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (a/)                       (/)
Identification                      Cl                      [>]                        L
Preparation Assistance              El                      [                          E
Appraisal                             i                     [                          L
Supervision                         L                                                   l



15 -
(Continued)
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Deficient
(1)                     (VI)                     (1)
Preparation                        [                      IZI
Implementation                      i                                               [ ]
Covenant Compliance                                                                 E] 
Operation (if applicable)           a                                                LII]
Highy                                            Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose               Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. NONE
Following operations
1. Rehabilitation Credit    Economic stabilization        FY 95            Closed
and reformn
2. First Structural Adj.  Economic stabilization          FY 96            Closed
Credit                   and growth resumption
3. Struct. Adj. Credit 1I  Consolidate macro               FY 98           Closes June 99
stability and lay
foundation for sustained
medium term growth.
4. Structural Adj. TA   Technical support for             FY 98            Under Implementation
Credit 1I                SAC 11



- 16-
Table 3.A: IBL Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                                                     7/92
Preparation                                                                        9/92
Appraisal                                                                        2/8/93
Negotiations                                                                    2/10/93
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)                                 NA
Board Presentation                                      3/30/93                 3/30/93
Signing                                                                          4/7/93
Effectiveness                                                                    6/15/93
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                               NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                      NA
Project Completion                                      5/30/96                  5/30/97
Loan Closing                                           11/30/96                 11/30/97
Table 3.B: SATAC Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                      9-10/95
Appraisal                                                                       11-12/95
Negotiations                                                                  1/19-22/96
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)                                 NA
Board Presentation                                                               2/29/96
Signing                                                                           3/4/96
Effectiveness                                            3/8/96                  3/22/96
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                               NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                      NA
Project Completion                                      9/30/97                  6/30/99
Loan Closing                                           12/31/97                 12/31/99



- 17 -
Table 4.A: IBL Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate           0.40    3.20     8.90    12.00    12.00    12.00
Actual                          0     1.03    3.28     7.33    11.25   10.74-a
Actual as % of estimate         0      32       37       61       94       90
Date of final disbursement                                            3/23/98
a-Decrease represents repayment of Special Account of $512,000. $1.26 million of loan was also
cancelled.
Table 4.B: SATAC Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96   FY97    FY98    FY99   FY00
Appraisal estimate           0.40     2.80    3.80    3.80
Actual                       1.00     1.10     1.97    2.14
Actual as % of estimate      250       39       52       56
Date of final disbursement                                      NA



- 18-
Table 5A: Key Indicators for IBL Project Implementation
Estimated                  Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. NA
I. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
Iii Other indicators (if applicable)
1. Free market economic reform                             Done
policy is approved by Parliament
2.  Share  of  private  sector                             Achieved
investment in total GDP increases
to 15 percent
3. Number of programs submitted                            Achieved
to multilaterals goes up by 35
percent
Table 5B: Key Indicators for SATAC Project Implementation
Estimated                   Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. NA
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
IJf. Other indicators (if applicable)
1.  Implementing   economic                                In conjunction with SAC I,
reform program on a timely basis                           growth exceeded 5%, inflation
which leads to sustained growth                            to single digits
and lower inflation
2. Privatize  all SMEs with                                Almost all SMEs privatized,
medium  and large enterprises                              but many enterprises still not
subject to financial discipline                            under financial discipline
3. Improved capacity of banks to                           Bankruptcy law passed
deal with bad debts
4. Increase customs revenues by                            Achieved
100 percent in 1996 over 1995



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for IBL/SATAC Project Operation
Estimated                    Actual
I. Key operating indicators in PAD
1. NA
I1. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
III. Other indicators for future operation (if applicable)
1. NA
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose as defined at         Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES



- 20 -
Table 8.A:1. IBL Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)              (US$ 000) IBRD only\a
Item                              Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign    Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
I.Economic Management               181  5,200      5,381        135   2,305    2,440
2.Resource Mobilization              70  2,000      2,070        128   2,468    2,596
3.Enterprise Reforn                 163  5,000      5,163       1,344   2,990    4,333
4.Financial Sector Reform            86   1,000     1,086          0      437      437
5.Unallocated and Contingencies           2,000     2,000        266     664       928
Total                               500  16,700    17,200       1,883   8,842   10,735
Table 8.A:2. SATAC Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)               (US$ 000) IDA only\a
Item                              Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign    Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
I .Privatization                    595    405      1,000        297      174      470
2.Financial Sector                   45    655       700          95        0       95
3.Civil Service Reforn               50    300       350           0        0        0
4.Resource Mobilization             230   1,325     1,555          0      370      370
5.Unallocated and Contingencies             500      500         345      308      653
Total                               920  3,185      4,105        735      851  \bl,589
\a-As provided by the Project Implementation Unit
\b-Differs from disbursed amount in Table 4 by the undisbursed amount in the Special Account.



- 21 -
Table 8B:1. IBL Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$)                      (US$ 000)\a
Item                              Local Foreign     Total      Local Foreign     Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
IBRD                                     12,000    12,000       1,871   8,864   10,735
Government                          500              500          \b                \b
EC                                        1,000     1,000               1,130    1,130
USAID                                     3,700     3,700               3,400    3,400
Total                               500  16,700    17,200       1,871   13,394   15,265
Table 8B:2. SATAC Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ 000)                   (US$ 000)\a
Item                              Local Foreign     Total      Local Foreign      Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
IDA                                 615   3,185     3,800        737      852    1,589
Government                          305              305          \b                \b
Total                               920   3,185     4,105        737      852    1,589
\a-As provided by the Project Implementation Unit
\b-Government contributed office space and salaries of government employees involved in
implementation. Value of this contribution not estimated.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenan  Present Original   Revised    Description of Covenant    Comments
Agreement Section t Type    Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
Loan       4.01    1         C      6/30/94                Conduct of annual audits   All received  by  the
Bank
Credit     4.01    1        C       6/30/97                Conduct of annual audits   All received  by  the
Bank
Covenant types:                                                                Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                        8. = Indigenous people             C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. -Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD = complied with after
from beneficiaries                       10. =  Project implementation  not delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds    covered by categories 1-9        CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                    11. =  Sectoral  or  cross-sectoral NC  not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or    budgetary  or  other  resource
executing agency                            allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7. = Involuntary resettlement                 regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                                FULL COMPLIANCE
Table 12A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for IBL
Planned                Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$          Weeks        US$             Weeks       US$
Prep. through Appraisal                                                         19.4         49.4
Negotiations through Board                                                       6.0          12.7
approval
Supervision                    44.5    95.9         19.8           50.4        108.9        238.0
Completion                      5.0     6.0         5.0             6.0           1.5         2.8
Total                  49.5   101.9         23.8            56.4        135.8        302.9



23 -
Table 12B: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SATAC
Planned                Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle     Weeks    US$          Weeks        US$            Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal-a
Appraisal-a
Negotiations through Board                           1.8             4.8          1.8           4.8
approval
Supervision                    28.8    61.1         33.5            75.1         31.2         62.6
Completion                                            2              4.8          1.5           2.7
Total                  28.8    61.1         37.3            84.7          34.5         70.1
a-Merged with SAC I
Table 13.A: Bank Resources: Missions-lBL
Performance Rating2      Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in Specialization'     Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year     Persons Field                      status     objectives
Through Appraisal       7/92      2      10      E               NA          NA
11/92    8      7       E,L,F,C
Appraisal through  Board 2/93     5      12      E,C             NA          NA
approval
Supervision             7/93      4      8       E,LEG,HR        NA          NA
9/93     5       7      E,C,F            S          S
7/94     1      5       E                S          S
8/94     1      6       E                S          S             Economic
blockade
6/95     2       6      E                S          S             TA delay to
Labor Min.,
poor  cons.
perf.   for
econ. legisl.
11/95    2      7       E               S           S
7/96     4       7      E,F,LEG,SOCE  S              S
8/96     4       13     E,PROC,SOC    S             S
12/96    4      7       E,LEG,PROC    S             S
6/97     4       8                       S          S
Completion              3/98      2      7       E,PROC          S           S
Total                             396



- 24 -
Table 13.B: Bank Resources: Missions-SATAC
Performance Rating2     Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year     Persons Field                     status      objectives
Preparation through Board 9/95   3       8      E, PROC         NA          NA
approval                11/95    3       8      E, PROC
Supervision             7/96     3       9      E,LEG,HR        S           S
8/96     4      7       E,PSD ,F        S           S
12/96    3      5       E               S          S            Change  in
6/97                                                            government
3/98     4      6       SOC,F,E         S           S
6/98     2      6       E,F             S           S
1/99     2      7       E               S          S
2      8       E,PROC          S          S
Completion
Total
E-Economist
F-Financial Analyst
HR-Human Resources
LEG-Legal
PROC-Procurement Specialist
PSD-Private Sector Development
SOC-Social Scientist



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



4U5USUW'  Puful0ksn"     baXoUNbI. %            lAtu3   buiW'flflWot.s
2 s~~~~~~61tusuPru                            SAt;llUkIL
MINISTRY OF FIANCE AND ECONOMY OF TRE REPULIC OF ARMENIA
DEPUTY MINISTER
MHHICTEPCTBO 'IrHACOn H 3KOHOMHIH PECIIY3JIHIH ApMZH,Sl
3AMECTHTEJl, hiHHHCTPA
bI3Uu;6-37S0O O Ubl-U zjal1j4Ju XR-., l
Yercvan-375010, Me1ic-Adamian. s,_ I                                   - f  W'e d2ZZ 2A'
Epe2ax-375010, ywn. MeAxx.-AAaM1a. 1
Mr. Lev Freinkman
Country Economist
Poverty Reduction and EConomic Management
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Subject:    SAC I, SAC  II, SATAC & ]BL Projects Implementation
Completion Reports
Dear Lev,
I have a pleasure to present to You the Completion Reports of Structual Adjustment,
Second Structural AdJustment, Strutural Adjustment Tcchnical Assistance and Instiutional
Building Projects, which were approved by the Govcrnment of Armenia. Also, I would like to
mention that all on-going projects under SATAC would be completed by the end of 1999.
Sincerel



Annex A Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT
The Institution Building Loan Agreement was signed between the World Bank and the
Government of the Republic of Armenia on April 7, 1993 and ratified by the Parliament on
May 12 1993.
Under the Loan Agreement it was designed to lend a total amount of US$ 12 million for the
Project implementation targeted, after reallocations, at:
*  US$ 5,800,000         consultants' services and training
*  US$ 6,000,000        computers, equipment and other materials
*  US$ 200,000           operating expenses
The Project was supposed to strengthen the institutional capacity to design and implement
economic reform, to help accelerate the reform process and to support the restructuring of
economy by hastening the pace at which rehabilitation and investment operations can take
place.
The Project consisted of the following main components:
* Economic Management
/ Economic Policy Formulation and Aid Coordination
/ Legal and Regulatory Framework
/ Social Safety Net and Employment Issues
* Resource Mobilization
/ Tax Administration
/ Customs Administration and Trade Facilitation
* Enterprise Reform
/ Support for Privatization
/ Support for Public Sector Enterprise Reform
* Financial Sector Reform
The Government's goal was to put into place the reform strategy which balanced the pressure
to address immediate concerns to moderate social and economic costs of the existing situation
with the development of capabilities and institutions appropriate to a liberalized economy and
society. Despite the initial delays in the implementation of the project, which was the first
one extended by the World Bank to the Government of Armenia and required more specific
approach at the start up, it accelerated in the following 3 years. The IBL project was rated as
satisfactory by the Government.



Annex A Page 2 of 7
Successful computerization of customs and tax inspectorate, as well as other technical
assistance provided in the framework of IBL led to a sustainable increase in revenues and
effective administration.
The Government developed its own institutional capacity for independent macroeconomic
analyses and policy formulation, including development of a statistical database appropriate
for policy evaluation, aid coordination, development of a realistic public investment program
and recording and monitoring of the newly contracted debt.
The project was successful in meeting the targets for preparation of enterprises for
privatization and assisting in the sale of small assets through general privatization program
including the use of vouchers. The privatization process was also supported through
enactment of a number of new laws supportive to a market economy.
The Government has established the infrastructure for financial sector reform, particularly
through provision of expert assistance, training and equipment. The Central Bank of Armenia
has developed its capacity in banking supervision, as well as the accounting and auditing has
been developed in the Ministry of Finance.
As was proposed by the Loan Agreement several TA projects funded by the EU and USAID
have been implemented in a manner complimentary to activities funded from the IBL
proceeds. From USAID part about $ 3.4 million were directed to macroeconomic advice and
land registration, and about ECU 1 million contribution has been made by the EC directed to
provision of assistance to the Privatization Commission and Board, giving recommendation
for global or partial privatization, strategies and procedures for small, middle and large
enterprises.
The Govermnent, on its part, provided the consultants working on the Bank financed project
with required local human resources aund expertise, materials and documentation available at
projects implementation time, and supported with free office space and equipment when
necessary, ensuring the smooth and effective performances.
More specifically, the following measures have been undertaken arnd performed by tne
Government in close cooperation with the World Bank staff under the IBL project:
Economic Management
For the purposes of automation of the working capacity of several departments of Ministry of
Finance and some other key ministries, as well as of Statistics Department, National
Assembly, Pension and Employment Fund, etc. computer equipment has been purchased
under the credit resources.
In terms of foreign aid coordination, a Foreign Aid Coordination Center has been established
under the Ministry of Economy, which undertook the task.



Annex A Page 3 of 7
The investigation of the employment problem in non-agricultural enterprises and households
has been accomplished.
Resource Mobilization
In respect of achieving improvements in Tax administration system the technical assistance
has been provided to meet advisory and computerization needs of that system. Under the loan
proceeds Tax Training and Public Information Center has been established and the initial
activities of the Center as well as purchase of the equipment were financed.
The contract with UNCTAD, costing a total amount of US$ 1.551.000, ensured restructuring
in Customs system of the RA in compliance with International standards and improved
enforcement and revenue collections. The Trade Center was also established under this
contract.
Enterprise reforms
Within the framework of Privatization Program, Privatization Certificates and Government
Bonds for the years 1995-1997 have been printed and delivered under the loan resources.
The Privatization Commission and the Board as well as the newly established Centralized
Registrar for Security Market and Enterprise Development and Investment Promotion
Agency have been supported through provision of consulting services, training and
equipment.
The financial and advisory services targeted to management improvements have been
provided to the selected 10 loss suffering enterprises and privatization efforts of 10 strategic
enterprises have been supported.
The Public Information Program has been performed by foreign consultants, which also was
focused on creation of local specialized capacities in this sector and as a result the local
experts continued the implementation of privatization-oriented and public information
campaign and preparation of enterprises for privatization.
Financial Sector Reform
The Central Bank of Armenia has been supported in developing its capacity in banking
supervision mainly through the training of the staff.
The Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance has been equipped and the computer net
was installed.



Annex A Page 4 .of 7
General
A series of training programs have been financed from the loan resources, targeted at training
and qualification of experts including those of Public Administration bodies and the National
Assembly staff.
About 150 experts from the above mentioned agencies have participated in the seminars
organized by OECD.
The international audits of the Project accounts for financial years 1993 - 1997 have been
made and assessed as satisfactory.



Annex A Page 5 of 7
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT
The Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Project was signed between the Government
of the Republic of Armenia and the International Development Association on March 4, 1996
and became effective on March 22.
Under the Loan Agreement it was designed to lend a total amount of SDR 2.6 million for the
Project implementation, which was directed to strengthen the institutional capacities of the
Government of Armenia. Initially the Project was designed to face the following key areas:
*  Privatization and Post-Privatization,
-  Preparation of enterprises for privatization
- Liquidation advisory assistance
- Training in bankruptcy procedures
*  Financial Sector
- Pilot work out program in two commercial banks
- Bank resolution unit advisor
*  Civil Service Reform
- Public service review and functional reviews of key ministries
*  Resource Mobilization
- Establishment of National Training Center
- Computerization of Customs and Tax Administration
- Review of customs procedures
The substantial delays in project implementation were caused by the reorganization process
within the Ministries initiated by the Government and the changes of direction and substance
of the reforms in several areas. Therefore, during the implementation of the Project some
components (such as bankruptcy training, pilot work out program, bank resolution unit and
public service review) have been replaced by others, which were prioritized by the reforms
program. As a result the credit resources were allocated for financing of the development
projects in the energy, water and judicial sectors. The project implementation mainly was
rated by the Government as satisfactory.
The project implementation was supplemented with certain arrangements directed to
strengthening and improvement of control over the use of credit resources, specifically,
project implementation procedures and practices, as well as to ensuring larger publicity.
In more detail the following activities have been accomplished under the Credit:



Annex A Page 6 of 7
Privatization and Post-Privatization
The financing of implementation of the privatization-oriented information campaign and
preparation of enterprises for privatization undertaken under the IBL was continued under the
SATAC proceeds.
The liquidation model for medium and large enterprises has been developed with assistance of
foreign consultants.
Financial Sector
The privatization of Armeconombank has been assisted, as well as the proposed privatization of
Savings bank is supposed to be supported through financing of international audits of banks'
accounts and provision of financial advisory services.
Energy Sector
The energy sector rehabilitation plan has been developed and the newly established Energy
Regulatory Commission has been supported through provision of consultant services and
equipment.
Water Sector
The financial analysis of Yerevan Water Company has been accomplished and financial
analysis of Armenian State Water Company will be performed and necessary specialized
equipment is supposed to be purchased by the end of 1999.
Resource mobilization
The contract with UNCTAD targeted at strengthening of Customs Administration and Trade
Facilitation was continued.
With the purpose of acceleration of enforcement activities and measures, undertaken by
customs bodies, improvement of customs revenues, enabling quick release of cargoes kept
under customs control, the automation of Customs system through development and
application of customs procedures simplification software has been initiated and is expected
to be completed by the end of 1999.
Satellite and radio channels net for data transmission between objects of the Customs
Administration is expected to be designed and installed by the end of 1999 targeted at
increasing the efficiency of using data generated by software means in customs stations,
ensuring fast data interchange with the goal of creating a centralized data bank and building a
Global Computer Net with remote managing servers working in the Customs bodies.



Annex A Page 7 of 7
Judicial Reforms
By the end of the year, in order to accelerate the process of establishment of the Judicial
Training Center the Master plan is proposed to be developed with assistance of foreign
consultants and the training seminars will be organized for newly appointed judges. Also the
provision of necessary equipment for Courts was financed under credit resources.
General
During the whole Project implementation the Government, on its part, provided consultants
working on the Bank financed projects with required local human resources and expertise,
funded the salaries of local employees from the budget resources with the purpose of saving
the credit proceeds, materials and documentation available at projects implementation time,
and supported with free office space and equipment when necessary, ensuring smooth and
effective performance.



APPENDIX B
QAG SUMMARY



Annex B Page I of 2
Annex B - Quality Assurance Group Assessment for Armenia SATAC
Rapid Supervision Assessment 2
Guidance Questionnaire for Rapid Assessments
Summary Assessment Sheet
ARMENIA                                    Overall Assessment:                   2
Country:
Project Title:             STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                         Focus on Development                  2
Impact:
Region:                    ECA                                        Supervision of Fiduciary              2
Aspects:
Sector:                    PUBLIC SECT MGMT ADJ                       Adequacy of Supervision               2
Inputs and Processes:
Loan/Credit Number:         Credit                                    Realism of Project                    2
Performance Ratings:
Loan/Credit Amount in    3.8                                                                     Assessment Panel:
Millions:                                                                                        Leader: David Webber
Date Approved:             02/29/96                                                               Members: Neil Simon
M. Gray
Date Effective:            03/22/96
Task Manager:              MULLER                                              Assessment Date: 08/06/98
At Risk Status:            Non-Risky                                       Person(s) Interviewed: Muller
Environmental Category:                             Managed from Headquarters unless Noted:
c                                                                       Headquarters
Project ID: 44387
Assessment Rating
1 = Highly Satisfactory
2 = Satisfactory
3 = Marginally Satisfactory
4 = Unsatisfactory
NA = Not Applicable
1. Focus on Development Impact                                                  2
Comment:
2. Supervision of Fiduciary Aspects                                             2
Comment: Link between development indicators and project status can be
improved.
3. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes                                 2
Comment: Budget too tight.
4. Realism of Project Performance Ratings                                       2
Comment:
Overall Assessment                                                                2



Annex B Page 2 of 2
noteThe overall assessment is not an average of the assessments of the constituent elements of supervision. Instead, the reviewer should use his/her judgment in
weighing the relative importance of each given the country and the project context. In making its assessment, the reviewer should consider the importance of each
category, and within each category, the various questions, to supervision quality.
List the two or three factors critical to the success of this project:
Political, Social and Economic stability. Armenia had significant declines in GDP during the early 1990's. The continuing geo political situation
with economic blockades by major neighbours makes for a difficult environment for project implementation.



