Document of
The World Bank
)'OR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6014-AM
MEORANDUM AND REOION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPEN
TO THE
ExCUTIVE DIECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVAUET TO US$12.0 MILTION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENA
FOR AN
INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1993
N i KN('V .;ii '               T Y
Ji         11tC ' t- OT -   IJ   - A  T
Ti it'  e:  ] NFv- 1rT''TET  t; Lu tiL 1,]t\  ,iJ} 
A'sthor: HALL  f
Ex.t. :.22l4fi"- ij<>,:m..;;  ~.'.:tJi
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALEN1S
Currency Unit - Ruble (R)
EXCHANGE RATES: RUBLES PER $
(End of Period)
Dec.  1991                169.2
Jun.  1992                144.0
Dec.  1992                400.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ICB   = International Competitive Bidding
MOE  = Ministry of the Economy
MOF  = Ministry of Finance
MOJ  = Ministry of Justice
MOL  = Ministry of Labor and Social Protion
NBA   = National Bank of Armenia
ARMENIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAl USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTITUTION BUILDINGLOAN
Loan and Proliet Summary
Borrower:                  Government of the Republic of Armenia
Loan Amount:               $12.0 million
Terms:                     Twenty years, including a five year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate.
Project Duration:          lInplementation will start April 1993 and last until April 1996
Project Objectives:        Assist the Armenian government to strengthen the institutional basis
for economic reform through institution building programs in four
functional areas: (a) economic management, (b) resource mobilization,
(c) enterprise reform, and (d) financial sector reform.
Financing Plan:                          Loca          Foreign       Total
(US$ thousands)
Government  $500                 -          $500
IBRD         --            $12,000       $12,000
EC                          $1,000        $1,000
USAXID       -              $3,700        $3,700
TOTAL:       $500          $16,700       $17,200
Economic Rate of Return:    not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    not applicable
IBRD No. 23943R
This document has a restricted distribution and viay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM OF RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIENT
OF THE INENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPET
TO TH  EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FO1R AN INSIITUTILON BUIDING POIECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and r'commendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Armenia for the eqQivalent of US$12,000,000 to help finance institution building
activities. The loan would be at the IBRD's standard variable int.erest rate repayable over 20 years
including a grace period of five years.
2.    Iahrognd. Formal contacts between the World Bank and the Republic of Armenia (hereinafter
referred to as Armenia) began in February 1992, and the country joined the IBRD in September 1992.
An economic report, entitled 'Armenia, Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 11412-AM), will
be distributed to the Board in March 1993.
3.    To facilitate the design and implementation of reforms, establish the institutional framework for
the effective management of a private market economy, develop a framework for coordination of
teehnical assistance, and so that Armenia can reap the full benefit of economic liberalization when the
country's external environment stabilizes, the government has requested the World Bank's support to
develop and help finance an Institution Building Project. The proposed operation responds to that
request. It would constitute the first operation by the World Bank in Armenia.
4.    Armenia is at a critical juncture. In 1990 a democratic revolution swept to power a reform-
minded government and parliament which are now proceeding with implementation of far-reaching
reforms. Meanwhile, however, the economy has contracted severely given the disruptions due to the
dissolution of the FSU, the war over Nagorno-Karabakh and instability in Georgia. This has added to
the considerable suffering due to the 1988 earthquake which left hundreds of thousands of people
homeless. The legacy of the earthquake remains today as 10% of the population, or two-thirds of those
made homeless by the earthquake, still live in temporary, rudimentary housing. The earthquake
destroyed enterprises, work-places and other buildings as well, representing as much as 40% of the
country's manufacturing capacity, and in the largest city in the earthquake zone, Gumri, which has a
population of 250,000, unemployment still stands at 75%. In surrounding towns and villages
unemployment is even higher. Neither sufficient housing or industry has been rebuilt in which people
could live or work as the reconstruction effort also ceased with the dissolution of the FSU.
5.    Tensions between concerns for stability, the population's welfare and the commitment on the paf!
of the authorities to enable the development of a private market economy are compounding the difficulties
of economic management. The Armenian economy remains heavily constrained by the legacy of central
planning and an uneconomic and deteriorating capital stock. Its structure still mainly corresponds to the
centrally determined pattern of production and trade, having a large industrial sector and a relatively
small services sector. Agriculture has been relatively less important given the country's mountainous
terrain and limited supply of arable land. The country's industrial production capability relied in the past
on a close association with the other Soviet republics. Armenia's role in the USSR economy was to
process intermediate goods and materials from other republics and to supply a wide range of consumer
and non-specialized producer goods. To survive, the industry was dependent on two conditions:
artificially low prices for energy and other raw materials and equally low transport costs which did not



. -  ,' tr  X ;' -     rnr ms the
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )k
-'~~~~~~~ .                             t. r~                       : * C J zs-   d  ~aAt,'rgflrn  sf the
-.    '4                    r'   1 .  .,                               . -   .U 4.,  ?iLF' QVVt tsrS.
¶    -  ..  .  - ,; *.  ~   .        VJttfl ,tj S'NU  andt
.:       f   . .       -               S   . ~~~~~~~ct8flAlnng from  she
'2   ' ~ ~~~~                                ~   ~   ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  I.  F   ,   1?'jf   nJt
~'   ,-;;r {estimated to
,  .  ,    .    .cs   '2. .X: . ^', to) IIfpl0T  ,ifb.ti
.  .           ......... w    {, . *.           c       I f' 12   P- W*r111JOank A1OUt
. ' . " t :. 3.,. tiX 't<i~~~~Uf vft s that.
-'t:t:Sl' deptndencv on
..    ..~  'tw- wl.  :Ito!r had been
.= .   .  -   ,       447'          i.:L?y' ,sr;>> reprcsented 67%
'..Ee   3 %  and  .4%
,. . .   ..  s ;    ..,.,.                  .u.............. ti, .'Z t1 r. ';' the Lc contraction
., . a  .   i   .  *:  . :,' :. N.'.: ;,Uc ,t<rtOt. %af    and 20%   of
*  a  ttir R ot *f; 5,Aljllf5^,erhaijan,
-                                N  . .   ..    ,.   A  i   i; '  6    v <'   x+? S3s *sKM rahAJh has cut off
- *..  ..*~~~.                      F'r~~rt!..iiA::~    throigh A tcrbaijan to the
o  *. . .        -'-                             ' - N t  ;flt.A: & tthe! _   .ic  railway and road
,, ;     -   q         l -    ;   ? .. 1 . :. 't '           V. ."'    c rniatninmg trae route. A
. .        ;.        .' s:'''   '::.    .t-                      *.t;-. .Lnt.A.-          lunited exchanges.
. *s  .  74 i.  ;.                t 
.1.     ,4...   -: %41C beNicause of it. the
; ."      .> .tprt4te environment and
..   z  :t  -;  .2'  : *.. i          ;      ~         cC  o.':v'> ! m  -The government
A       t'  ,I ,,  ',,  ,~c2il *-    4-A-*t      t    .r1......;JaN  itor economic growth
* .........  , -    .           . <; tV      :4 k -  ci2fl 11 onfC vCas4 of reform
,.rQ    t !    s e; elutblic to privatize
,,' .    ,,     ,, 'oil.'    ..  ;. 2. ?.'    'N. "sejtr2, I4 tn addtton, Armenia has
.  -             ,  . .   n r.  C  ....nit c    cj,vrtt uxes and import
-  g 4; .  %g. cr t.rt a banking reform  law and
p         , -.  * '  ;  4    -  . - 44  . ' VA-   s'2  !.t     !,:e enterprises and mass
. .   .   , .  ' .  i. '^ - s .^;  *'c.  '    avis t¢'a:;;tnt  'eonomic stability has
,..  Ma . ,.  ,- *      v   1       ;...;  .  , ,,,#^ .:~ . rF '~   .~- ac i;n rca the tiCar situation and
;ci' .2 t.*h.  lattef, the previous system
F.       ; s g   &.  '     '     _      '.  '    '    .' '    u.,'  ',' ' t-PAVt  tAUt tPccfl hilly designed  mad
'i.S".'' "'K  '::.  '"  -i. >. '."'t4, l '."' t4JfItdt'   the collapse of economic
3.   i-             .  *      S    * ^ -                < . Nt; '  *  -r   a Itrgc fiscal deficit and has required



-3 -
substantial cuts in expenditure. During this period as well, poor enterprise performance and loose
banking supervision have led to the expansion of credit into high risk, low return loan portfolios and
build-up of arrears. These developments have likely compromised future financial stability and may
result later in large claims on the government budget.
11.   The Is"jQI &Wag and Govegmment Sloaor InMN99"  Basboam . In this
situation, the government is trying to put into place a reform strategy which balances (i) the pressures
to address immediate concerns to moderate the social and economic costs of the present situation with
(ii) the need to put into place the capabilities and Institutions appropriate to a liberalized economy and
society so that Armenia will be in a positioa to benefit from economic liberalization once external
circumstances allow. While skill levels are high in Armenia, both in the public and private sectors, a
major constraint is the lack of experience and expertise and inadequate institutional capacity to design and
implement structural reforms and to manage a private market economy. The government has recognized
this and concluded that substantial institutiot building is required to achieve its goals. In this respect it
has identified four priority areas in particular where prompt, extensive and mutually-reinforcing institution
building actions are required to prepare the ground for further reform: (a) improving economic
management; (b) improving domestic resource mobilization; (c) increasing efficiency of the productive
sectors through privatization; and (d) increasing the efficiency of financial intermediation and
strengthening the financial system. The following paragraphs review briefly the situation with these four
priority areas.
12.   Economic Management. In this area the emphasis is put on economic policy formulation and aid
coordination, legal and regulatory reform and social safety net and employment issues. The government's
econominc oliy fboMation and aid coordination function, has benefitted from initial, limited economic
policy advice and other assistance given by the Armenian diaspora and from a few multilateral and
bilateral organizations. However, the goverment has yet to fully develop its own institutional capacity
for independent macroeconomic analysis and policy formulation. Such governmental capacity is needed
to design and monitor macroeconomic and sectoral policies, including collection of a statistical database
appropriate for policy evaluation, contribute to aid coordination, assist the development of a realistic and
prioritized public investment program, and record and monitor newly acquired debt. Outside assistance
in these areas is needed as existing capacities within govermnent are extremely limited - very few staff
have training or experience, and appropriate institutional support, including equipment, is not available.
13.   Armenia's legal and reulatory reform effort has been initiated through the enactment of a number
of new laws suppowidve of a market economy. The country's regulatory framework and poor institutional
capacities remain (onstraints to investment and development of the private sector, however. At present
the Department of Economic Reforms is responsible for formulating and drafting all majc- legislative
reform proposals, including proposals regarding private sector development and privatization. This
Department consists of eight economists, and there is need for assistance to draft legislation as well as
to review critically remaining constraints to private secor investment and development. The Ministry
of Justice provides pro forma comments on drafts prepared by the Department of Economic Reforms,
but given the limited institutional capacity in that ministry and in parliament, assistance is required to
ensure internal and overall consistency of new laws.
14.   The ability of the government to deliver a mininum sa   aflty nt is critical to economic
management within the country. The govermnent estimated that by mid-1992 most of the population had
fallen below the poverty line it had set a year earlier. By that time registered unemployment had risen
to 65 thousand or about 4% of the labor force, but much larger numbers whtile tehnically still employed



-4-
were on indefinite unpaid or partially paid leave from their jobs. The Ministry of Labor, in conjunction
with the Ministry of the Economy and the Department of 'Economic 11.eforms, is responsible for setting
the poverty line and determining and delivering income support benefits. Unemployment programs and
the government's social assistance programs are administered through the Ministry of Labor's
employment service offices, which are responsible for registering the unemployed, paying unemployment
benefits, collecting and publicizing vacancy information, and advising on and commissioning retraining
courses from public or private providers. They are also responsible for paying means-tested social
assistance benefits, but the scale for these takes no account of non-cash incomes and is not effectively
linked to a realistic assessment of minimum income requirements. In present circumstances, the lack of
budgetary resources and lack of realistic targeting have meant that only a small amount of social safety
net expenditures are being paid, and training programs for the unemp!iyed are not being provided.
Moreover, the institutional capacity of the local employment offices to operate employment and training
services and deliver social assistance remains weak. Given these circumstances, the government needs
to develop a system for redefining its poverty line, develop options for better targeting the limited social
safety net assistance it can provide, and improve the capacity of the Ministry of Labor to provide
employment services and training.
15.   R2leIo    Mobilization. Revenue collections by government have deteriorated enormously over
the past few years. Whereas revenue as a percent of GDP was around 50% until 1990, that percentage
had fallen to an estimated 18% in 1992 due to the move to the VAT without preparation, lack of trained
tax inspectorate staff and other tax administration problems. As a consequence, revenue has fallen far
short of planned expenditure, and exinditures on all categories of goods and services have had to be cut
substantially. The large fiscal deficit undermines the government's capacity to maintain the reform
program as a whole and to provide income support during the transition, and creates macroeconconic
instability.
16.   The government has recently enacted legislation to empower the customs administrationto collect
VAT and excise taxes on non-FSU imports. In addition, based on World Bank and IMF
recommendations, the govermment is considering collecting import duties (a low and uniform tariff) on
non-FSU trade as a transitional measure as these would be relatively easily ad.ninistered and collected.
To carry this out without slowing movement of goods, substaridal trade facilitation improvements and
efficiency gains are required. In addition, customs will need to begin to play a greater role in the timely
collection of accurate trade statistics which are needed for sound economic and fiscal planning. To
support these ends, substantial assistance is required by both the tax inspectorate, where tax policy is
developed and administered, and the customs administration.
17.   EnterDris  fQrm. The privatization law established a Privatization Commission to determine
strategy for the program and a Privatization Board for undertaking the work of privatizing the estimated
10,000 smaller enterprises and service establishments, 700 larger firms and 4,000 unfinished construction
sites. The law spells out a multi-track approach to privatization, including auctions to sell small
establishments, privatization based on worker and management initiatives, leasing, formation of joint
ventures, privatization of large entwrprises individually, privatization through a voucher scheme, and sale
to foreign investors. The 1993 program calls for privatizing a large number of small shops as quickly
as possible, followed by a second phase involving larger establishments. The government's overall
objective is to privatize all smaller scale enterprises and about 25% of the larger manufacturing sector
by 1995.



-  -
18.   The new law provides an over.ll framework for the privatization process but does not delineate
adequately the role, functions, authority, and relationships of the privatization Commission and the Board.
Currently the Board has a staff of 60 professionals and plans to recruit about 40 more staff as well as set
up 7 regional offices to implement privatization of small service establishments owned by local
governments. However, it needs to be strengthened with trained professionals and outside experts if it
is to develop privatization and enterprise reform strategy, to assist enterprises to prepare financial
accounts and spontaneous privatization plans, help with auctions and take on an expanded program of
privatization of larger tenterprises. The Commission and Board staff need to be trainedi and the Board
needs to develop information databases on enterprises and systems for reporting.
19.   Fi jaLSector. The financial system faces insta'ility during the transition period, and it is
imperative that a new legal, regulatory, operating, and skills infrastructure be put in place as soon as
possible to deal with the critical problems of tie sector. At present, the five state banks control over 70%
of credit, and as these banks are selling shares, ownership issues are not clear. Of the 54 'commercial'
banks started since 1989, over 70% of the shares are held by state enterprises. rhe older state banks
need to overhaul operating procedures and roles, and the new, small financial institutions have almost
no experience with commercial banking. Many of the current practices are unsafe, many of the financial
institutions are insolvent, and most banks are lending excessively to their owners. Banks that are in very
weak financial condition, including the state banks, are selling shares before strong oversight capacity
has been put in place. The government must also deal with the problems of the inherited banking system,
including the outstanding obligations of the savings bank, the stock of non-performing loans in the state
banks and the lack of arms-length relations with enterprises. Enterprises need to move to new accounting
standards so that commercial banks can adopt commercial lending procedures. New financial laws,
infrastructure, accounting standards, prudential regulations, and operating practices are needed to establish
the framework for a safe and stable banking system.
20.   Bank's Role and Strategy. The World Bank aims to assist Armenia in its transition to a private,
market economy. Missions have visited the country to review performance and prospects of the
economy, help design a program of structural reform, identify technical assistance requirements and
immediate needs for energy and housing and infrastructure reconstruction. However, to help the
government achieve its objectives as set forth above, substantially greater assistance of both a short and
longer term nature is required.
21.   During project preparation World Bank staff helped the government to focus technical assistance
requests on highest priority activities required in the near term to assist the transformation of the
Armenian economy and attract cofinancing. They agreed with the government on specific activities which
the World Bank might finance. As Armenia's assistance requirements are immense, however, this project
cannot cover all identified needs. To alleviate the hardships now being experienced, the United Naticns,
with assistance from the governments of the United States and the Netherlands, is leading an effort to
provide humanitarian assistance to Armenia. In addition, technical assistance is being financed by the
European Community's TACIS program, USAID and other agencies. The World Bank has also initiated
project vreparation to assist reconstruction of the area still devastated by the 1988 earthquake, and in
energy and agriculture. The World Bank's programs under this loan and in other areas have been
coordinated with the other assistance being provided.
22.   Under this Institution Building operation two outcomes are expected. The short run objective is
to help the government design and implement economic reform. The longer run objecive is to develop
the government's institutional capacity to manage a private market economy and build up a private sector.



-6-
This first World Bank loan to Armenia will help accelerate the reform process and help the real
restructuring of the economy. Both the government and the World Bank view the technical assistance
under this Institution Building Project as a substitute for specific skill shortages and insufficient local
expertise during a limited period of time while local capacities and institutions are strengthened and
enhanced. Hence training, computerization and other capacity building activities form an important part
of the institutional development activities to be supported.
23.   While the World Bank does not yet have project experience with Armenia, it has had substantial
experience with institutional development operations elsewhere. Reviews of past institutionbuilding loans
suggest that projects are more successful if they are developed within the context of the government's
own institutional development objectives. Other lessons stress the need for government commitment and
involvement in the specification of the program, understanding by government on project administration,
detailed terms of reference for expert assistance and for trainlng to be provided prior to initiation of the
program, and intensive supervision by the World Bank of the operation once implementation has begun.
The design of this operation has taken advantage of lessons learned.
24.   .roect Descrion.  Based on the analysis and conclusions of the Country Economic
Memorandum and in agreement with the government, the Bank-sponsored Institution Building program
would assist the government in economic management, resource mobilization, privatization, and financial
sector reform.
A.    Economic-Managem
a.    Economic Policy Formulation / Aid C ordination:  This component will provide
assistance to the government to help define the appropriate roles and restructuring plans of the
Ministries of Finance and Economy, build needed capacity for macroeconomic and policy analysis
and formulation in the Ministry of the Economy, support the aid coordination and management
capacity in the Ministry of the Economy, and give assistance to the Ministry of Finance to
establish its debt reporting mechanism. Support will be provided in the form of experts,
computers and other equipment, and training. USAID will provide parallel financing for this
activity.
b.    L&gal Refrm: To maintain momentum in the legal and economic reform areas as well
as to help remove legal constraints to the development of the private sector, the technical
assistance under this component will support the design of legislative and regulatory reform.
Support will come in the form of legal advice, reviews, training and information programs.
c.    Social Safety Net / Employment Issues: This component will finance consulting services
to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and the Department of Economic Reform to
develop a system for determining the poverty line and analyze options for social assistance
strategies. It will also assist the Ministry of Labor to prepare and carry out a program for
strengtening and streamlining the services it provides to unemployed people and others in the
labor market. The component will provide expert assistance and training courses both in
Armenia and outside, help design computerization strategies and provide equipment for the
employment service, and finance the establishment of a program to increase capacity for
providing training and retraining, particularly for the unemployed, which is relevant to the new
economic environment. During negotiations, it was agreed that the government would submit
its plan for training and retraining unemployed people to the Bank by April 30, 1994.



-7-
B.    Resource Mobilization
d.    Tax Adjinistration: Assistance to be provided will improve the capacity of the tax
inspectorate to design tax policies and administer the tax program. The project will provide
advice to the government on direct and indirect tax policy and administration, including the VAT
and excise taxes. Trainiag and computerization programs, including providing support for
developing computerization plans, wili complete the assistance package in this field. This
component complements technical assistance being provided by the IMF.
e.    Cusioms AdministatiQn - Tradje Facilitation:  This component will assist the
establishment of a customs administration in line with the transformation to a private, market
economy and on the basis of international standards. This component would provide support to
the goverrnent to: (a) modernize customs laws and regulations; (b) review and reform the
organw  on and procedures of customs operations; (c) provide essential training in customs
functions such as classification and valuation; (d) computerize customs clearance procedures,
accounts and statistics; and (e) promote private sector development through the pilot establishment
of a business service center or trade point. This com.ponent has been prepared and would be
implemented with the assistance of UNCTAD.
C.    Enteprise Refonn
f.    Sutport for Privatization: The loan will finance an industrial sector study to review
policy options and appropriate targeting of restructuring and privatization efforts. In addition,
the program will finance: (a) experts to advise the Privatization Commission and Board on
strategy and methodology; (b) consulting services to market a limited number of large enterprises;
(c) assistance to worker/management-initiated privatizations and implementation of mass
privatizations; (d) in-service and external training and study tours; and (e) voucher printing costs.
The EC will provide parallel financing for this component.
g.    Support for Public Sector Enterprises. For enterprises remaining in the public sector and
those to be privatized in the medium and longer term, the loan will finance experts to strengthen
corporate governance capacities of the governme:it and to help deepen commercial practices.
D.    Fluandal Reforn
h.    Financial Sector Infrastructure: Through provision of expert assistance, training and
equipment, this component will help the government to establish the infrastructure for financial
sector reform. The program will place advisers for banking supervision in the National Bank,
for accounting and auditing in the Ministry of Finance, and to help oversee and manage the state
banks during the transition period. The program will provide short term technical assistance to
the National Bank for policy studies on strategic financial development. This program also
includes training in commercial banking and accounting and auditing to quickly build new skills
appropriate to a private market economy. USAID will provide parallel financing for this
component.
25.   Project Admnigsration. Project implementation will extend over a three year period. This loan
will be administered in Armenia by the project implementation unit in the Ministry of the Economy's
Department of Foreign Economic Relations, which has been staffed with capable officials for this



-8-
purpose, in conjunction with officials of the various beneficiary units. The government has agreed that
the appointment of a project manager shall be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Training of
government staff on procurement matters has been initated with the assistance of % orld Bank
procurement specialists and will continue during project implementation. The administrative burden
piaced on government staff has been minimized to the extent possible by packaging the operation into as
few contracts as possible. In addition, one of the components (customs administration and trade
facilitation) will be executed under directed-source arrangements with UNCrAD. This will reduce the
administrative burden on government as well as World Bank staff and will be done in accordance with
the World Bank's guidelines on the selection of consultants and the employment of UN agencies as
consultants.
26.   As noted above, parallel financing will be provided by USAID (financial sector activities and for
the economic policy and aid coordination component) and the EC (privatization programs). A pre-CG
may be held in May/June to continue coordination efforts.
27.   At this juncture it is not possible to identify all essential assistance requirements of the country,
and it is likely that new needs will arise during the implementation period of this operation which should
be supported by this loan. To provide flexibility in project implementation a small portion of the loan
thus remains unallocated. The government has agreed as well that project funds will be reallocated
among identified project components if such new needs arise or if sufficient movement toward
implementation is not taking place. The criteria for reallocation in this instance are that: (i) no
disbursement against that component/contract has taken place over a 3 month period and (ii) that no
movement is foreseen. If in the future additional grant financing is identified for the activities envisaged
to be supported under this loan, the loan funds could be cancelled or reallocated to other project
components.
28.   The project will be carried out at a total cost of $17.2 million equivalent. The proposed loan,
together with grants from other donors, would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of
procurement and of disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events
and the status of World Bank Group operations in Armenia are given in Schedules C and D. More
detailed information on the project is provided in the Technical Annex. A summary of key project
activities and more detailed project cost estimates are given in tables and attachments to the annex. A
map is also attached.
29.   Environmental aspgeb. As this project is not expected to have any significant negative
environmental impacts, it has been placed in category C for the purposes of OD 4.01 on Enviromnental
Assessment and does not require an environmental assessment. Special environmental problems will be
highlighted in the industrial sector review, and in preparing large-scale enterprises for privatization, the
operation would finance environmental audits for early candidates for privatization in selected cases.
Recognizing the importance of clarifying environmental liability in the process of large privatizations,
under the legal assistance component this project will support activities to help the government design a
strategy for addressing this issue.
30.   Actions Agreed. The government confirmed the scope of work to be financed from the proposed
loan as well as activities for which alternative financing is in place. During negotiations, agreement was
obtained on: (a) a financing plan, including cofinancing from other foreign multilateral and bilateral



-9 -
sources; (b) terms of reference for the principal consultants, the major studies and training programs; and
(c) coordination and implementation arrangements.
31.   Bnirt and Risk. The proposed project would further the structural reform effort in Armenia
by enhancing the administrative capacity of the government to design and implement reform measures.
Through institition building and technical assistance in the areas of economic management, resource
mobilization, privatization and financial sector infrastructure, the project will strengthen the capacities
within Armenia to manage a private market economy and the transition to this new system, and it will
assist the identification of priorities and establishment of a framework for coordinating financial and
technical assistance coming to Armenia. This program will also lay the foundations for further public
administration and clvil service reform which will have to be addressed over the medium-term and for
developing a medium-term investment program.
32.   The main risks concern possible political Instability, including on the exterral front,
creditworthiness and implementation difficulties. The gover-inent is presendy maintaining its power to
set the reform agenda, ,nd in early February changes in government strengthened the posidon of reform
supporters. However, . the military situation were to worsen, if people can no longer count on savings
or intra-family transfers for living expenses, or if the state of siege and the trade/energ;y blockade were
to precipitate a change in political leadership, a new government might halt the reform process. To
address this risk, this project was designed to address needs which would be required in most
eventualities. In addition, we have attempted to build relationsb:ps and a consensus for these programs
at working level. Creditworthiness is a concern given the ongb ng trade embargo which deeply affects
Armenia'q capacity to produce and trade and deters potential investors. Foreign exchange reserves are
minimal, and hence there are short-term liquidity problems. However, over the medium term prospects
should be good given the government's commitment to transformation and to the fact that Armenia's
external debt is now virtalaly nil as the country has given up claim to FSU assets and debt. The credit
risk has been reduced as well by keeping the loan small, attracting cofinancing, and ensuring that the
program directly supports design and implementation of the reform program, which is the most important
means of strengthening creditworthiness and encouraging other institutions to support the country.
Finally, concerns over absorptive and implementation capacity have been addressed during preparation
and in the insdtutional arrangements for the operation. In areas of critical need but where nio alternatives
exist, the project proposes a limited number of longer-term experts, who would generally be in line
positions, to fll specific skill shortages. This assistance would be of limited duration, at most two years,
and include strengthening of institutional capacities as a primary objective. In other areas sufficient
individual and institutional structures exist to make use of short-term consultancies and results of studies
which are planned. Tbroughout the period of implementation, substantial supervision efforts are plamed
and will include temporary resident assignments on the part of World Bank staff.



- 10-
33.  RB nunendafion.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 8, 1993



- 11 -
Schedule A
REM-MLC OF AIIMA
INSTITUTION BU fDIN  LOAN
l.iimated Costs and Financing Plan
Local        F1                 oa
Economic Management
Macroeconomic Policy Formulation and Aid          42           1,200           1,242
Coordination
Legal and Regulatory Reform                       31            900             931
Social Safety Net & Employment Issues            108           3,100          3,208
Resource Mobilization
4. Tax Administration                             16             450            466
5. Customs Administration & Trade                 54           1,550           1,604
Facilitation
Enterprise Reform
6. Support for Privatization                     130           4,700          4,880
7. Support for PSEs                               33             300            333
Fnancial Sector Reform
8. Financial Sector Infrastructure                86           2,500          2,586
Unallocated                                                    1.000           1,0
TOTAL BASE COST                            500          15,700         16,200
Price & Physical Contingencies        _ _UQQ                            1,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         500          16,700         17,200
Government                                 500           -               500
IBRD                                       -           12,000          12,000
USAID_                                                  3,700           3,700
EC                                                       1,000          1,000
QL    A a~50GPi                                               16.700         17,I



- 12 -
Schedule B
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC AOY ARMENI&
INSTITUMION BUILPING LOAN
Procuranent Method
Category                              ICB            Other      N.B.FP       Total
(US$'OOO,OOO)
Equipment                              1.9            2.5W          0.3      4.7
Technical Assistance
(Advisors, Consultants                                4.5          3.6      8.1
and Studies)
Training and Study Tours                               2.1          1.3      3.4
Refinancing PPF                                        1.0                   *.0
Total                                  1.9            10.1          5.2      17.2
A/    Non-Bank financed (cofinancing and government contribution)
hl    International Shopping ($1.2 million), Local Shopping ($0.2 million), Direct
Contracting ($0.1 million) and Limited International Bidding ($1.0 million)



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
INSTItTION BUILDING LOAN
IBRD Disbursements
Category                         Amount        % of Expenditures to be Financed
(US$'O0O)
Consultants' services,             5,330       100% of expenditures
fellowships, and training
Computers, equipment, other        3,670       100% of foreign expenditures,
materials                                      100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
and 75% of expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Refunding of Project Preparation   1,000       Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the
Loan Agreement
Unallocated                        2,000
Total                             12,000
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEINTS
-(   U      S~~~(U$    o    o     o))
FY 93        FY 94         FY 95          FY 96
Annual                               400         2,800        5,700         3,100
Cumulative                           400         3,200        8,900        12,000



- 14-
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
REPUBIC OF ARIA
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US $17.2 million equivalent)
Project Year                     Total
Project Element                   1            2              3        Payment        Remarks
Loan Tinie
Signing & Effectiveness April 1993
Closing              April 1996
Proc&rcnnt (USS '000)
(1) Consultancies               2,010        5,170          2,570         9,750
a. Economic Policy Fornulation
& Aid Coordination        230          525            365         1,120       Bank Guidelines
b. Lega and Regulatory Reform     250          500            100           850
e. Social Safety Net
& Employment Issues       300          700            200         1,200
d. Tax Administation               80          120             80           280
e. Customs Administration
& Trade Faciitation       250          590            260         1,100
f. Ereprise Reform                500        1,235           1,165        2,900
g. Financial Sector Infirastructure  400     1,500            400         2,300
(2) Equipment                     410        3,240            300         3,950
a. Computers and other equipment  410        2,240            300         2,950       ICB/IS/LS/DC'
b. Vouchers                                  1,000                        1,000        LIB
Unsllocated                                  1,000           1,000        2,000
Refinancing PPF                  1,000                                    1,000
Governuent's local cost contibution    150     150            200           500
TOTALS                           3,570       9,560          4,070        17,200
This total is broken down into $1.9 Million ICB, $0.75 Million IS, $0.2 Million LS, and $0.1 Million DC.



- 15 -
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF ARIA
INSTITUllON BUILDING LOAN
Timetable of Kev Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                         6 months
(b)    Prepared by:                                   Government with World Bank
assistance
(c)    First IBRD mission:                            September 1, 1992
(d)    Appraisal:                                     February 8, 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                                  February 10, 1993
(f)    Scheduled Board date:                          March 30, 1993
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness:                 April 30, 1993
(h)    List of relevant PCRs.and PPARs:               Not applicable.



Ih
schedule, D
FtVj'UlUJ IQF'P. INU
I%N !~~O       IVU~N  ON
4 Hin~~wj~  ~y ios n Armenia
litnk lnrdtng tt Armenia had not yet comuenced.
3f, !sVlw I U'NJUS   Q Lu W(  thr  aft en
.At, .! I  ct,%4Af, 1 1. thcef had not been any IFC investments in Armenia.



- 17 -
REPULUC OF AR
INSllTUlONBUHIDING PRO.lECT
Tednicall Annex
A.  nRQJL7T DESCRM=I.
1.    This Institution Building Project would help the Armenian government in four critical areas for
its future development: (a) economic management; (b) resource mobilization; (c) enterprise reform; and
(d) financial sector reform. The project's overall administration would be the responsibility of the project
implementation unit within the Armenian Ministry of the Economy. The project would provide for
advisory services, studies, training and equipment to support economic reform. Implementation would
be spread over a 3 year period. The total project cost is $17,200,000, of which the IBRD loan would
be $12,000,000.
PART ONE: ECONOMIC IANAGEGM
I. ECONOMIC PLICY FORMULATION / AID COORDINAMNIO.
(UJS$ 1,242,000)
2.    The Armenian Ministry of Economy has only very limited capacity to undertake the core task of
determining the framework for public expenditure management, including macroeconomic and sectoral
policy analysis, program development, and the planning and management of the public investment
program. Within the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Economic and Social Development
nominally has responsibility for these tasks, but in practice its staff of 10 officers lacks relevant training
and experience.
3.    In addition, Armenia may begin to receive considerable inflows of external aid to support its
transition to a market economy and to help alleviate the severe economic difficulties that the country now
faces. Effective aid coordination is essential to optimize aid receipts, and aid flows should be integrated
within the country's overall economic management to guarantee greater efficiency. The government has
given responsibility for aid coordination to the recently established Department of Foreign Economic
Relations in the Ministry of Economy.
4.    A further constraint to effective and efficient economic and fiscal management is the present
structure of the Ministries of Finance and Economy. These remain geared to the needs of the former
economic structure rather than the requirements for economic, fiscal and revenue management in a mare
economy. Both ministries are characterized by highly fragmented departnental structures, departmental
responsibilities which reflect inadequately current work demands, and poor communication both between
the two ministries and among departments within each ministry. Addressing these organizational
deficiencies is essential if the economic reform process is to be managed effectively.
S.    World Bank support will involve the four sub-components described below.



- 18-
6.    Organizational Study of the Minities of Finance and Economy:  Short-term consultancy
assistance will be provided to undertake an organizational study of the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of the Economy. This will review and make recommendations regarding rationalization of the
functions and structures of the two ministries, and future staffing levels.
7.    Support for thle Establishment of the Economic Management Department: In order to help
enhance Armenia's macroeconomic policy-making capacity and thereby to contribute to an efficient
allocation and utilization of aid resources, this operation would assist the government to establish an
Economic Management Department, which will be located within the Ministry of Economy. This support
will come in the form of two senior, resident experts for a period of two years. Firstly, an experienced
macroeconomist will be attached to the Macroeconomic Division of the Department of Economic
Management. The macroeconomist will analyze and advise the government on (a) government revenues
and expenditures; (b) the impact of the government's macroeconomic and monetary policies; and (c)
macro policy conditionalities associated with aid agreements. Acting initially as Head of the Division and
reporting to the chief of the Economic Management Department, the expert will progressively transfer
all responsibilities to a national officer. The expert will develop and oversee the work program and
procedures for the Division; provide advice to the Ministry of Economy; and determine the future staff's
job descriptions and their training requirements.
8.    Secondly, an experienced sector economist will be attached to the Sectoral Division of the
Department of Economic Management. The sector economist will initially work as Head of the Division
reporting to the chief of the Economic Management Department, but will also progressively transfer these
responsibilities to a national officer. In particular, this officer will help government develop a public
investment program consistent with absorptive and resource capabilities and which donors could support.
The expert's will develop and oversee the work program and procedures for the Division and provide
advice to the Ministry of Economy or sector ministries on the establishment and/or strengthening
(responsibilities, staffing requirements and training requirements) of sectoral economic policy and
programming units. The expert will also determine the Division staff's job descriptions and training
requirements.
9.    Debt Reporting and Manag-ement System: A short term consultant will be provided to assist the
Ministry of Finance in establishing a debt monitoring and management unit, to undertake debt recording
and servicing tasks, and to ensure that debt servicing is entered into the state budget and that payments
are executed on due date. The consultant will assist in introducing a system to support these functions
consistent with the recommendations made by the World Bank to the government. Computer equipment
and software required for the system will be provided.
10.   Training and Institutional Support: Support will be provided for the development of an in-service
training program for government economists and other staff (including those in the sector ministries).
The program will include basic economics training as well as techniques and practice)of economic
management and analysis in the public sector. The assistance will comprise support for the planning of
the program, curriculum development and training materials development. This will involve a link-up
with a foreign *raining institute or specialists which would provide experts to assist with the planning of
the program and preparation of the curriculum. Subsequently, assistance will be provided with the
development and the teaching of the initial training modules. Six fellowships at foreign training institutes
for short (up to three months) courses covering macroeconomic analysis, sectoral policy analysis and
project appraisal. Training in procurement will be funded as part of the program. (Table 2, Item l(a)).



- 19 -
In addition, the loan will support strengthening of the Statistical Departmnent through provision of
computer equipment.
11. LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
(US$ 931,000)
11.   Although Armenia has enacted a number of new laws supportive of a market economy, gaps and
inconsistencies remain in the legal framework necessary for commercial activities, including privatization,
to flourish. The lack of clear legal rules in many critical areas has emerged as a major constraint to
economic development in the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union.
12.   Some progress is being made in the commercial law area. In February 1992, the Enterprise and
Entrepreneurial Act was passed by Parliament. This law defines the fundamental principles of
entrepreneurial activity as well as the organizational and legal forms of enterprises/companies.
13.   At present the Department of Economic Reforms of the government is responsible for formulating
and drafting all major legislative reform proposals, including proposals regarding private sector
development and privatization. This Department consists of eight economists, and there is need for
assistance as draft legislation needs to be formulated in precise legal language. The Ministry of Justice
provides pro forma comments on drafts prepared by the Department of Economic Reforms. Given the
limited institutional capacity in that ministry and in parliamnent, assistance is required to ensure internal
and overall consistency of new laws.
14.   To encourage a sound environment for commercial activities and development of the private
sector, it is crucial that the legal framework provide clear and predictable rules concerning:
(a) commercial law, including company law, contract law, banking laws, and the related rules governing
settlement of commercial disputes; (b) environmental liability; (c) property rights; (d) market entry and
exit; and (e) trade and competition to inhibit monopolistic practices. This will require legal advisors and
experts in specific areas, training programs for Armenia's legal profession and a limited amount of
equipment.
15.   Ge l LegAi           The goal is to provide adequate legal advice on draft legislation, and to
ensure that new laws are internally consistent, Two long-term legal experts could fulfill these functions.
Firstly, a Legal Coordinator would be resident in Armenia for about 12-18 months and would work in
the Department of Economic Reform. The legal coordinator would head a legal assistance team and
would be responsible for helping to plan long-term strategy in the economic reform area as it relates to
legal infrastructure. The legal coordinator would also be expected to assist in drafting relevant laws and
supporting regulations and decrees when needed and would work closely with officials of the Ministry
of Justice and the pro: implementation unit.
16.   Secondly, the Department of Economic Reform would be assisted by a Legal Expert who would
also reside in Armenia for about 12 months. The expert would have experience in market and former
Soviet economies, with emphasis on legislative drafting, and good knowledge of a broad range of legal
issues. The expert would assist in reviewing all legislation presently in force or in draft form to assess
its impact on private sector development and to suggest appropriate amendments where necessary.



- 20 -
17.   Expert Advice: These experts would be assisted by shorter-term specialists in, e.g., property,
corporate, commercial, banking, bankruptcy, collateral, international trade and labor, environmental law
and dispute settlement mechanisms. Assistance in this regard would total about 6 man-months.
18.   IWning Programs: The training programs wIll be implemented under the direction of the legal
coordinator with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice. They will focus on problems that legal
professionals will encounter in the transition to a market economy, and will be addressed to the entire
legal profession, including law students and parliamentarians, involved in the legal aspects of the
economic reform program. The training would consist of seminars, lectures and other materials provided
by outside legal experts. Training would include sending legal professionals overseas for short-term
internships.
19.   Comutization: Finally, in order to more efficiently implement the work set out above a limited
amount of equipment and supplies will be needed, including: (a) computers and computer software for
a legal database which is to be maintained by the Ministry of Justice; (b) legal text-books and comparative
studies for training courses and seminars; (c) sample of contracts, charters and by-laws which can be used
by lawyers in practical work; and (d) collection of international treaties and reviews of international
commercial practice.
III. SQCIAL SAFETY NET / EMPLOYMENT ISSUE
(US$ 3,208,000)
20.   Armenia has begun to develop a free labor market system, with workers responsible for finding
their own jobs and employers responsible for finding their own workers. It has also begun to develop
the institutions to help in that process. Registered unemployment is currently about 65,000, or about 4%
of the labor force, but the actual level of unemployment is probably much higher and growing as
enterprises begin to shed the labor they are unable to use productively. At least in the short run many
enterprises have no electricity or other fuel as a result of the blockade, and this is exacerbating an already
very difficult situation. People have little incentive to register as unemployed when labor offices have
no funds to pay unemployment benefits, and very few job vacancies to offer. The government is
currently having great difficulty in keeping the level of benefits much above a bare subsistence level, and
has effectively suspended most payments of unemployment benefits and social assistance.  As
unemployment rises, the inflow to the socW insurance fund will fall, and the government's overall
revenue position will remain critical. The government may well not have the capacity to continue paying
even the current levels of benefits.
21.   The new employment service was set up by the Employment Act which came into force at the
end of 1991. It was added to the existing Ministry Social Protection to form the new Ministry of Labor
and Social Protection. It currently has 41 offices and a total of 450 staff. The offices are responsible
for registering the unemployed, paying unemployment benefits, collecting and publicizing vacancy
information, advising and commissioning retraining courses from public or private providers, and paying
means-tested social assistance benefits. Pensions and certain other benefits are delivered via a separate
network of 69 offices with 650 staff.
22.   Social Safety Net Planning: The Ministry of Labor, in conjunction with the Ministry of the
Economy and the Department of Economic Reform, is responsible for setting the poverty line and
determining and delivering income support benefits. Under the present definition of the poverty line,



- 21 -
which was set a year ago, even with open unemployment at only 4% most of Armenia's population lives
in poverty. The government needs to redeflne the poverty line, assess what needs to be done in the
longer term to improve the monitoring of living standards, develop options for better targeting the limited
social assistance funding available, and improve its capacity to deliver benefits effectively. This
component of the loan will finance consulting services to the Ministry of Labor for these purposes.
23.   Ortanizarion of Emplogynt Offices and Staff Trainin : All the staff of the employment offices
are new to the work they are now doing (although some previously worked in the old labor allocation
offices), and have h. 1 very little if any training. Management training is needed at all levels, from the
top of the service to the heads of units in the local offices. For the senior managers, training may require
time to be spent with employment services abroad. Assistance will be given for the preparation of a
training strategy, designing courses and teaching materials, and training a cadre of staff trainers, which
should greatly improve efficiency and effectiveness. Registration procedures would be streamlined,
benefit and social assistance calculations made more efficient, vacancy listing and display improved, and
management information put together more effectively. Studies would also be undertaken to determine
improvements to be made in management and organizational structures.
24.   Training for Unploed Peole: The new Employment Law includes provision for the Ministry
of Labor to fund training for unemployed people. The training can be done either by the existing
technical colleges or by private contractors. In practice very little use has been made of this provision
because no funds have been available from the employment fund. For the future there remains a need
to improve the ministry's capacity to develop policy on skills training to provide a basis for allocation
of funding and to promote the development of demand-responsive skills training more generally. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the government would submit its plan for training and retraining
unemployed people to the Bank by April 30, 1994.
25.   The proposed assistance would fund the establishment of and expert assistance to a unit in the
Ministry of Labor to: (a) develop policy on skills training; (b) draw up and, subject to Bank approval,
implement a plan to enhance capacity in Armenia for training and retraining of unemployed people; and
(c) assist local employment offices with their job of arranging the delivery of suitable courses in their
areas. In addition, the unit will need capacity for desk top publishing, and for reproducing a wide range
of sample training and publicity materials including simple videos and computer-based packages. The
assistance would provide resources to cover the training costs of unemployed people over the next two
years via the establishment of a training fund.
26.   Computeriation: Registration of newly unemployed people, listing of job vacancies, calculation
of benefit entitlement, and payment notification should be computerized. Assistance will be given on
computer analysis and software design, and also on relevant staff training. Taking advantage to the extent
possible of the considerable computing expertise available in Yerevan, this assistance would be delivered
in two stages: development of a computerization plan would take place prior to provision of equipment.
In the longer term pensions and social security benefits will also need to be computerized, but that is less
urgent than the computerization of employment services and unemployment benefits.



-22 -
PART TWO: RESOURCE MOBILIZAD[ON
IV. TAX ADMINISTRATION
(US$ 466,000)
27.   As in most other countries of the former USSR, Armenia introduced a value added tax in January
1992. Partly as a result of the virtual lack of preparation and education of taxpayers or inspectors, the
government received virtually no revenues from the VAT during the first part of the year. A further
problem is that tax administration of direct taxes in the past, for example, has in large part been through
the banking system.
28.   Assistance to be provided would improve the capacity of the tax inspectorate to design tax policies
and administer the tax program. The project would finance short-term consultancies to advise the
government on direct and indirect tax policy/administration and would also include a training sub-
component. This component would complement technical assistance being provided by the IMF.
29.   Expert Assistance on Policies and Administration: The foreign expert assistance will help with
the design and development of both policy and administration reforms. A series of short-term
consultancies would be provided for direct and indirect tax policy and adminitration, in particular to deal
with improvements to the VAT. Excise taxes are becoming of greater importance in terms of their
proportional contribution to overall revenue collections, and would be a priority area for advice. Finally,
given the need over time to move toward a declarative system of income taxation for individuals, advice
on implementation in this regard, including on the establishment of unique taxpayer identification
numbers, would be provided. The expert assistance would also be on call to answer questions on an as-
needed basis.
30.   Trainine of Tax Insperate Trainers. Ofricials and Inspt Training programs are needed
to train trainers as well as to train the tax inspectors and other tax inspectorate staff. The training
assistance under this component would assist the development and provision of a series of in-country
training programs and study tours.
31.   Computers and Other Equipment: The tax inspectorate's equipment needs improvements. For
the head office in Yerevan and the 51 local/regional offices, in which 1600 employees work, there are
presently only 15 computers. After an initial review and determination of a computerization plan, this
component of the Institution Building loan would provide needed equipment for the head office and for
the local/regional offices. Printers would alse be provided, as would copy equipment, fax machines,
software, tax literature and other relevant items.
V. CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION / TRADE FACILITATION
(US$ 1,604,000)
32.   Despite its revenue difficulties, Armenia imposes no tariffs on imports as a means of revenue
generation. The government has recently enacted legislation to empower the customs administration to
collect VAT and excise on non-FSU imports. In addition, based on World Bank and IMF
recommendations, the govermment is considering collecting import duties (a low and uniform tariff) on
non-FSU trade as these would be relatively easily administered and collected. Furthermore, customs
authorities are about to begin to play a greater role in the timely collection of accurate trade statistics.



-23 -
Armenia has little experience with collection and organization of such data, which in the past was
centralized in Moscow. Statistics produced with the present ptocedures are inadequate with a high
incidence of mis- and non-recorded documents.
33.   An independent Armenian Customs Administration, directly under the Council of Ministers, was
established in January 1992, starting off with a staff of 50. Now the service numbers 200 employees and
plans are to recruit another 300. The new recruits receive on the job training for two months frcm the
older staff. However, former centrally-planned Soviet Customs activities in Armenia were very limited
and inadequate for market economy customs services. In addition, there is little familiarity with customs
regimes designed for trade facilitation in a liberalized trading envirotument and export promotion purposes
such as temporary admission, warehousing, drawback, etc.
34.   The proposed technical assistance has two objectives: (a) to provide guidance for developing
trade procedures, laws and regulations compatible with the requirements of market economy and to
establish a modern customs administration; and (b) to facilitate and promote trade by assisting the
Armenian trading community in working within a liberalized trade environment. Tbis component has
been prepared with the assistance of UNCTAD which will administer it in two phases. Under Phase I
which should take six to nine months to complete, UNCTAD staff and consultants would assist the
government to reform the existing customs organization, procedures, laws and regulations. They would
further provide advice on customs policy, and assist the government to train staff. Phase II would
address the computerization of the customs administration upon successful completion of Phase I.
35.   SiMify -and Harmonize Trade Eormalits Procedure and DocumentI: By adopting a single
customs clearance document modeled on the EC's Single Administrative Document and Harmonized
System of commodity classification, the first steps towards international harmonization will be taken with
the assistance proposed. Studies and reform recommendations would be formulated in export and import
licensing, forwarding and cargo handling procedures, and adapting Harmonized System tariff and
documentation to Armenia's requirements.
36.   Organization and Managerial Fraogwork:  The assistance of a high level trade/customs
management expert will be provided to be team leader to supervise the implementation of the program
and who would work with the Director General of Customs and provide advice on customs policy and
on all matters related to establishing a modem Customs Administration including: legislation and
regulations; customs clearance procedures and documents; assessment, collection and control procedures;
rationalizing nomenclature and tariff structure organization and management; procedures for collecting
statistics and preparing management information reports; and preparation for computerization.
37. Cudstoms Laws and Regulations: Customs legislation in Armenia is based on the old USSR
Customs legislation and needs to be revised to ensure it is adapted to the needs of a market-based
economy. A customs legislation consultant would examine and make recommendations for improvement
in the following fields: tariff law; customs code and legislation; and the regulations related to the
organization of the customs department.
38.   Trainiaf: Under the proposed procedures and organization, a large number of the staff will be
provided with extensive training. Crash courses will be needed to provide a minimum of training to key
staff members. A basic instructions course on the various aspects of customs administration would be
organized locally. In addition, customs administration in a liberalized trade environment needs
classification and valuation expertise to ensure efricient duty assessment and trade information collection.



- 24 -
Such expertise is very limited in Customs and among the trading community in Armenia. Regarding such
speciflc customs techniques and their enforcement, the customs expert will coordinate training programs
for a selected number of staff with the EC and UNCTAD. Seminars and workshops In customs clearance
procedures for the trading community would be organized. Selected staff would also receive electronic
data processing training.
39.   Computerization: A pilot project at the Customs Head Office and the Yerevan Cargo office,
would serve as the basis to prepare customs and train staff on computerization. Experts would be
provided to develop a computerization plan and to assist with its implementation. After training and the
plan is developed, computers and other equipment would be provided.
40.   Trade Point: On a pilot basis, an UNCTAD-model trade point, or a business service center,
would be established in Yerevan where a complete range of services would be offered to importers and
exporters. Representatives from banks, insurance companies, transport companies, chambers of
commerce, customs brokers, customs, foreign trade institutes and others would be brought together at
the center to make their services available to the traders. A trade point would be specifically useful for
Armenia where the trading community is young, lacks experience and needs assistance. Given the
customs authorities' interest in this activity, a location for the trade point has already been identified.
Inputs to be financed would include: (a) expert assistance to set-up organizational and legal framework;
(b) preparation of the center and purchase of computers, databases, fax, telex, and other office equipment;
and (c) training for participants and users.
41.   The government has requested that this component be carried out through the selection of
UNCTAD as the consultants. Selection of UNCTAD will be in accordance with the World Bank's
Handbook on the Employment by Bank Borrowers of UN Agencies as Consultants. These guidelines
permit this arrangement when the services are deemed appropriate for the work to be done, when they
would be of comparable technical quality and cost as from other sources and when the services would
be provided on a timely and efficient basis. Selection of UNCTAD would qualify on each of these
grounds, and Armenia will benefit further as similar UNCTAD programs are being set up in FSU
countries and elsewhere, providing assurance of expertise and experience and cross-country consistency.
PART THE: ENTERPRISE REFORM
VI. SUPPORT FOR PRIVATIZATION
(US$ 4,880,000)
42.   The Government of Armenia adopted a revised privatization law in July 1992 which provides a
reasonable legal base for invigorating the privatization program as well as significant enlargement of its
scope. The earlier program which aimed at privatizing small service enterprises had not included
privatization of large-scale industry. The new law calls for the establishment of a Privatization
Commission comprising twenty members, ten selected by Parliamnent and ten by the government, to
provide strategic guidance, develop annual privatization programs, oversee implementation of the program
by a privatization Board and deal with complaints involving privatization transactions. The Commission
has been named and has initiated work.
43.   The Board is responsible for implementing privatization transactions. Currently it has a staff of
90 (about 60 professionals) and plans to recruit about 40 more staff in the near future as well as set up
7 regional offices. A committee under the Ministry of Economy has prepared a privatization program



- 25 -
for 1993 which calls for privatizing small enterprises and service ustablishments as ftrst priority (after
the program has been cleared by the Commission). A second phase will address larger establishments.
The government now hopes to privatize all small-scale establishments and about 25% of the assets of the
larger-scale manufacturing sector by 1995.
44.   The privatization law provides an overall framework for the privatization process but does not
delineate adequately the roles and competence of the Privatization Commission and Board. The
Privatization Board itself will need to be reorganized and strengthened with trained professionals to take
on an expanded program of privatization of larger enterprises at a much faster pace.
45.   Support to the Privatization Commission and Board: The goal is to help these two institutions
in defining strategies, roles, methodologies and staff training programs, and to provide operational
support in implementing privatization of larger enterprises. The Board will need to develop information
databases on state enterprises and computerized internal information systems for reporting. The
Commission needs assistance in developing strategies for privatization and to translate these into effective
annual programs. This assistance will be provided through parallel financing arrangements with the EC.
46.   Implnementing Pivatizatio: The World Bank would provide consulting services to market a
limited number of large enterprises either through worker- or management-initiated privatization and/or
through mass privatization. Foreign investors' participation would be encouraged in about 20 targeted
companies over a period of two years. Initially, five enterprises would be targeted for assistance under
this loan. The Privatization Board would recruit a specialized firm of investment bankers to market these
enterprises. A study of selected industrial subsectors, which has been supported under a Project
Preparation Facility, has been initiated to analyze policy options for restructuring these industries and
provide a strategic framework for the privatization exercise.
47.   In-Service and Exteral Training and Study Tour: The new approaches to privatization will rely
on mass vouchers and possibly the launching of investment or mutual funds, leasing schemes, employee
buy-outs, management buy-ins, formation of joint ventures, and performance contracting. This will
require to develop procedures and staff training for the Privatization Commission and Board. Training
seminars would be organized on topics such as valuation methodologies.
48.   Vouchers: In the privatization program for 1993, the government has indicated its intention to
make use of a certificate or voucher scheme in support of its mass privatization program. The large
enterprises will be transformed into joint stock companies and partially privatized through the voucher
system. Significant policy decisions are still pending with regards to the face value, printing, and trading
regulations of the vouchers. Assistance will be given to the government to help develop the voucher
scheme and to finance printing costs.
VII. SUPPORT FOR PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISE REFORM
(US$ 333,000)
49.   The process of privatization will take several years. In the interim period enterprise performance
should be operated as far as possible in line with private sector practices. The main thrust of the
improved framework, management, monitoring and reform is to ensure that the remaining public
enterprises operate more efficiently and are commercialized. Commercialization includes introduction
of user charges, formulation of a limited set of achievable, commercial goals for enterprises, imposition
of a hard budget constraint, provision of sufficient autonomy to managers at the level of the finm and



- 26 -
creation of mechanisms by which the representatives of the owner can monitor performance, reward
success and reflect failure. Hence the reform of the remaining public enterprises in Armenia needs to
be achieved through implementation of the foilowing principles: (a) provide autonomy to management;
(b) establish greater accountability for them; (c) reward good performance and sanction poor
performance; (d) enforce performance requirements; (e) establish adequate management information
systems; and (t) clarify the role and responsibility of the ministries of Finance and Economy, the sector
ministries and other supervisory agencies vis-a-vis the public enterprises. Assistance will be given to
(i) set up performance planning and evaluation systems for public enterprises including managerial
incentive programs; (ii) introduce systematic utilization of indicators of performance; and (iii) support
preparation of corporate plans for a limited number of large enterprises.
PART FOUR: FINANCIAL REFORM
VIII. FINANCIAL SECTOR
(US$ 2,586,000)
50.   The Armenian financial sector is in a state of flux. The banking system remains highly
concentrated. In addition to the National Bank of Arnenia, there are five specialized state banks
(controlling 70% of the credit), and, since 1989, over 54 new private commercial banks in Armenia.
Over 70% of the shares of the commercial banks are held by state enterprises. The older state banks
need to overhaul operating procedures and roles, and the new, small financial institutions have almost
no experience with commercial banking.
51.   There is tension within the firnancial sector between the greater freedom given to all banks and
the growing pressure on the state banks to continue lending to the public sector direcdy or indirectly.
This conflict in objectives is made even more difficult due to the lack of a legal or operational framework
to protect the safety and stability of the system. Many of the current practices are unsafe, many of the
funancial institutions are insolvent, and the ownership pattern will be a problem as the economy is
privatized. Lax commercial banking policies, which allow for example substantial lending by banks to
their owners as well as access to credit from the National Bank, are allowing problems to develop that
will take years to resolve and will be very expensive for the government.
52.   This technical assistance program will begin work on key financial infrastructure and skills. The
program concentrates on preparing the foundation for banking in a market economy, providing training
in and a capacity to implement basic banking skills and new accounting systems, monitoring and
supervision of areas with greatest potential for instability, and advisory support for the government in
dealing with the immediate problems in the inherited state banks. Other international and bilateral
ageucies will also provide technical assistance to parts of the financial system. The International
Monetary Fund will take primary responsibility for the technical assistance needed by the National Bank
of Armenia. The World Bank financial sector support will focus primarily on the infrastructure needed
for the transition to a commercial banking system.
53.   A former branch of Gosbank-Armenia has assumed all roles of a new Central Bank. This
represents vastly expanded functions and responsibilities for this new National Bank of Armenia. The
IMF will take the lead on giving policy advice and technical assistance to the new National Bank. Tbis
Bank loan would contribute to specialized functions, including the introduction of new bank accounting
standards, support to further refine financial legislation, banking supervision, and resident technical



- 27 -
assistance. Funds from this project will also be used to upgrade equipment in key areas of the National
Bank, including computers for information management and processing equipment.
54.   Banking SuMishon: 'MThe National Bank of Armenia is just beginning to organize an independent
banking supervisory role which represents a dramatic change from monitoring specific regulations on cash
management and a few 'norms' on the financial relations in highly centralized system to a much broader
role of monitoring the safety and stability of the financial system. Several areas are of immediate concern
for the new banking supervision department, including very lax licensing standards, the rapid proliferation
of small banks owned by state enterprises that are lending to their owners, excessive loan concentration,
inadequate prudential regulations and weakness in monitoring the operations of the banks. A full-time
advisor would be posted for two years as the head of the National Bank's new banking supervision
department. Firstly, this advisor will be responsible for developing licensing procedures, prudential
regulations including standards on lending exposure, insider (connected) lending, capital standards,
policies on classification of assets and provisioning, and liquidity requirements. Secondly, the advisor
will help the National Bank of Armenia develop reporting systems for the commercial banks. Thirdly,
s/he will train the banking supervision staff.
55.   Accounting and Auditing Standards: Significant work has been done throughout the former Soviet
Union to develop new accounting standards in harmony with internationally accepted accounting practices.
This work can be adapted for Armenia. A part-time advisor would be posted in the Ministry of the
Economy for a two-year program to coordinate the work in adapting the accounting standards, revising
te legislation, developing programs to implement the new practices, and developing new certification
standards and training programs. The advisor would also help with the program in the National Bank
of Armenia to implement the new standards throughout the financial institutions. Because of the large
work program needed to bring Armenian accounting practices into line with international standards, the
lead advisor would arrange for additional consultants to help in specialized fields.
56.    raeic Planning and Services: The National Bank and the government of Armenia face difficult
strategic policy questions on the framework for the financial sector during the transition from a planned
to market economy. Assistance will be available for technical analysis and evaluation of the policy
options and implications as requested by the National Bank. This component can be used to cover policy
work such as development of the legal and regulatory framework for non-bank financial institutions, or
evaluation of options for coordination of enterprise privatization and financial sector policy, etc. One
area of immediate concern is the policy towards the large state banks that inherited unreconciled accounts,
large loan losses, weak loan portfolios, and operating procedures designed for a centralized allocation
system but totally inappropriate for a private or mixed economy. These problems will grow worse as
the economy declines and is reformed. The government faces difficult decisions on the transitional
operating rules for the banks that remain under state control.
57.   To redress the situation and before rehabilitating any of the state banks, the government will need
information on the implications and costs of the various options for reforming them. The technical
assistance program will support work of the Ministry of the Economy and the National Bank with
diagnostic studies on the state banks, which would have to be followed at a later date with further
assistance program. The objectives of this first phase would be to identify existing losses resulting from
the separation from the Soviet bankdng system, develop a framework to control loan losses resulting from
the decline in enterprise performance, downsize the banks to reflect those losses, and develop plans to
restructure, privatize or liquidate the state banks. The financial status of the state banks will be reviewed
and preliminary recommendations will be presented. Finally, it will be necessary to develop operating



- 28 -
rules and performance standards for the state banks, possible liquidation procedures, and privatization
action plans where appropriate. A special action plan would be developed for the rehabilitation of the
Savings Bank since that institution provides critical depository services for the general population. The
diagnostic studies will be done under the authority of the National Bank and the Ministry of the Economy
and other government agencies responsible for dealing with state banks.
58.   TraIming of Bankers: The core of the institution building program for the financial system rests
on training programs in banking practices for the Armenian banking community. This will include
training in, inter alia, commercial bank management and operations, international accounting standards,
credit evaluation, liability and asset management, interes. rate management, analysis of client and
enterprise accounts, loan and business restructuring, foreign operations, correspondent banking, trade
finance, and accounting and auditing. Training materials and training of trainers programs would be part
of the same package. In addition, support will be provided for training outside the country and
participation in international seminars on specialized topics. The National Bank of Armenia will
coordinate the training program for the commercial bankers. USAID will provide parallel fnancing for
this component.
B.    PROJECT ADMINISTRATON AND IMALENTATION
59.   For this first loan to Armenia, the government has determined that administration will be handled
by a project implementation unit which is a section of the Ministry of the Economy's Departnent of
Foreign Economic Relations Department, in conjunction with the beneficiary agencies within govermnent.
The Foreign Economic Relations Department is headed by a deputy minister who has substantial and
direct access to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy. The
project implementaion unit is a new unit which has been staffed with capable officials for the purposes
of coordinating and administering this first operation. At negotiatons it was agreed that the appointment
of a project manager would be a condition of effectveness of the loan. The project implementation unit
will have three professional staff, and the Ministry's aid coordination unit has five higher level officials
with plans for doubling its staff early in 1993 as it gears up for the increasing amounts of aid which
Armenia may begin to receive. Technical assistance is being provided to the department by the EC which
has placed two experts in the coordinating unit. While the original terms of reference for the EC
technical assistance link its functions to the EC program, the government has requested that the experts
be given the responsibility for providing general assistance on aid coordinion. Training of Ministry of
the Economy staff on procurement and disbursement matters has already begun by World Bank staff.
60.   The administrative burden placed on govermnent staff has been minimized to the extent possible
by packaging the World BaDk operation into as few contracts as possible and attractng parallel financers
to help as well in administration of the programs. One of the components (customs administration and
trade facilitation) will be executed under directed-source arrangements with UNCTAD. This will reduce
the administrative burden on govenment as well as World Bank staff.
61.   Parallel financing will be provided by USAID (the financial sector infrastructure and economic
policy I aid coordination components) and the EC (privatization programs). The program reflects
coordination with the EBRD which is still in the process of developing its programs and with other
donors. A pre-CG may be held in May/June to continue coordination efforts.



-29 -
62.   Preparation of this operation has recognized the question concerning the government's capacity
to absorb the assistance proposed. In areas of critical need but where no alternatives exist, for example
in the financial sector, aid coordination and legal reform components, the project proposes a small
number of long-term experts, who would generally be in line positions, to fill specific skill shortages.
This type of assistance would last for a limited period and include strengthening of institutional capacities
as a primary objective. The existing infrastructure is adequate to host these long-term experts. Similarly
for assistance requirements in other areas, the individual and institutional structures are on balance
sufficient to make use of short-term consultancies and results of studies which are planned. Particular
attention will be paid to this issue during supervision.
63.   At this juncture it is not possible to identify all essential assistance requirements of the country,
and it is likely that new needs will arise during the implementation period of this operation which should
be supported by this loan. To provide flexibility in project implementation a small portion of the loan
thus remains unallocated. The government has agreed as well that project funds will be reallocated
among identified project components if such new needs arise or if sufficient movement toward
implementation is not taking place. The criteria for reallocation in this instance are that: (i) no
disbursement against that component/contract has taken place over a 3 month period and (ii) that no
movement is foreseen.
C. PROJECT COST= FINANCING. DISB5RSEMENT. AND REPORTING AND AUDITING
64.   Project Cos: The total project cosi (shown in Schedule A) is estimated at US$17.2 million
equivalent. Details of the cost estimates have been included in Schedule A.
65.   All estimated local costs have been converted to US$ at an exchange rate of Ruble 400 / US$1.
All costs have been subjected to contingencies of 7.4% to cover both physical and price contingencies
in line with the World Bank's present price projections. The estimates for studies, consultancy
assignments and training are based on typical current costs for such assignments. There would be a
substantial involvement of internationally recruited consultants in all the project components. The project
would provide for a limited amount of equipment.
66.   Financing: A summary of the project financing plan, which was agreed during negotiations, is
shown in Schedule A. The foreign exchange cost requirements are estimated at US$16.7 million. The
local currency requirements (US$0.5 million) would be met by the Borrower from its own resources and
from available grant funding. The World Bank loan would finance about 72% of the foreign exchange
cost, the balance would be provided by the USAID (22%) and the European Community (6%).
67.   Disbursements: Disbursements would be administered by the Ministry of the Economy's project
implementation unit. The proceeds of the World Bank loan would finance 100% of consultants' services,
fellowships, training and translations; 100% of foreign expenditures for computers, equipment and
materials, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally. The loan proceeds would also refinance the Project Preparation Advance made by the Bank
under PPF 200-AM. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures against
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documentation to support these
expenditures would be retained by the Ministry of the Economy's project implementation unit for at least
one year after receipt by the World Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement



- 30 -
was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors (see section below
on 'Reporting and Auditing") and the World Bank upon request.
68.   The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is in Schedule B. The project is
expected to be completed by April 30, 1996, and the Closing Date would be November 30, 1996.
Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million would be provided to cover expenditures, primarily for the
early appointments of advisors, incurred aftor January 1, 1993.
69.   Sial Account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a special
account in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank to
cover the World Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account would
be US$1,000,000 equivalent, representing about 4 months of average expenditures under the loan. At
the request of the Borrower and, based on project needs, the World Bank would make an initial deposit
or deposits into the special account, up to the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for
replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly, or when one third of the amount
deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment
allocations would follow the same procedure as described in the above section on 'Disbursements." In
addition, monthly bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower
should accompany all replenishment requests.
70.   Reporting and Auditin : During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the special account,
all project accounts, and statements of expenditure would be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. Such audits would be carried out in accordance with
international standards undertaken by auditors qualified for this task. Audit reports for the preceding
calendar year would be made available to the World Bank no later than by the end of June of each year.
71.   To enable the project implementation unit to monitor progress of project implementation, it was
agreed during negotiations that the project implementation unit would furnish the World Bank with a
series of reports on a regular basis. These reports will include: (a) quarterly progress reports on
implementation in a format and degree of detail acceptable to the World Bank; (b) audited financial
statements within six months after the close of each Armenian fiscal year; and (c) records, financial
statements, other progress reports or other types of information that the World Bank may request from
time to time.  Based on information provided by the various beneficiary agencies, the project
implementation unit will prepare its contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of
the Closing Date, covering all related activities during project implementation.
D.  PROCUREMET
72.   Procurement would be the responsibility of project implementation unit. The project elements
and their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by the
World Bank are summarized in Table 1. Recurrent and other local costs financed by the government and
the components financed by the cofinancers are shown as non-Bank financed.
73.   Goods and Equipment: All equipment and materials to be financed from the World Bank loan
would be procured in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992).
Armenian manufacturers competing under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-
exempt importers, whichever is less, provided that the value added to the product in Armenia exceeds



- 31 -
20% of ex-factory bid price. Goods, equipment and materials to be financed by the World Bank will
consist of computer systems and peripherals, software systems, telecommunications, office equipment and
printing costs of privatization vouchers.  Computer and other equipment of estimated value of
US$1.9 million for computerization of labor offices (Item 3(c) in Table 2) would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the World Bank's samnple bidding documents modified to
suit the requirements of this package. Since the local electronics and software industries are not well
developed, local bidders for this major contract are not expected to be competitive. However, joint
ventures formed with international companies may be able to secure sub-contracts for software systems
and computer peripherals. The remaining equipment and documentation, grouped in lots estimated to
cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 would be procured through international shopping,
requiring price quotations from a minimum of three vendors from three different countries. To facilitate
coordination of the expert assistance and the equipment required under the Customs Administration and
Trade Facilitation component, UNCTAD will assist the government to procure the needed equipment
through international shopping (Table 2, items 5(b) and 5(c)). Total shopping would not exceed the
ceiling of US$1.2 million equivalent, about 10% of the total loan amount. Contract estimated to cost
less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate cost of US$200,000, may be procured in accordance with local
shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three eligible local suppliers.
Contracts for goods which are of proprietary nature or which require standardization with existing
equipment may be awarded under direct contracting procedures up to a total aggregate amount of
$100,000. Limited international bidding would be used for financing the costs of printing privatization
vouchers ($1.0 million).
Table I: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ nilon)
Procurement Metbod             Total
Proect Element                               ICB      Other   N.B.F.Y    Cost
1. Goods
1.1 Computes and oter equimeat              1.9        1.5       0.3      3.7
1.2 Vouchers                                           1.0                1.0
2. Consultaies and other technical assistace
2.1 Erpert assistance                                  4.5        3.6     8.1
2.2 Training                                           2.1        1.3     3.4
3. Miscellaneous
3.1 Refinancing PPF                                       1.0               1.0
TOTAL                                          1.9       10.1        5.2    17.2
A/ Non-Bank financed (cofinancers and government).
b/ Intemational Shopping ($1.2 million), Local Shopping ($0.2 million) and Direct Contracting ($0.1 million)
2/ Limited Intemational Bidding
4/ For presentational purposes the unallocated portion of the loan has been distributed amongst 1.1, 2.1, 2.2.



- 32 -
74.   Cgnsul=isnd: The specialists for technical assistance, training and studies to be financed
from the proceeds of the loan would be recruited by the government from among individual consultants
or consulting firms in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Consulancy assigunents will also involve assistance to custom administration, which will be provided
by UNCTAD will be on sole-source basis, in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelinesfor the Use
of Consultants and the Handbook on the Employment by Bank Borrowers of UNAgendes as Consultants.
These guidelines permit this arrangement as a means to facilitate international cooperation and economic
development when the services are deemed appropriate for the work to be done, when they would be of
comparable technical quality and cost as from other sources and when the services would be provided on
a timely and efficient basis. There will be approximately eleven assignments ranging between 15 staff-
months and 125 Staff-months, costing between US$300,000 and US$1.7 million. Specific details of
various consultancy assignments appear in Table 2. Use of local consultants will be limited given the
scarcity in Armenia of the requisite experience and background.
75.   Bank Review: Due to the centralization of procurement in the former Soviet Union, the
knowledge of the project implementation agencies in international commercial practices and the World
Bank's procurement procedures is almost non-existent. Therefore, all procurement activities under the
project will be coordinated by the PIU, which will be assisted by procurement consultants. To ensure
compliance with the World Bank procurement guidelines, all contracts awarded through ICB, as well as
the first two contracts under international shopping and direct contracting, will be subject to prior World
Bank review. The terms of reference for all consultant assignments and all contracts for consultant
services valued at greater than US$100,000, including the contract with UNCTAD, would be subject to
the World Bank's prior review and approval. These limits would result in prior review of about 97
percent of total procurement. All other contracts will be subject to selective ex-post review by the World
Bank.
76.   Procurement Administration: Since this is the first World Bank project in the country, PIU staff
members would be given training in procurement through courses conducted by the International Labor
Organization and through other training. Consultants would be retained by the borrower to provide
assistance in preparing and evaluating bids. The PIU would be staffed with a management team
competent to assist with routine procurement administration activities.  For bid preparation and
evaluation, the government plans to retain the services of a procurement specialist / consulting firm, to
be financed from grant funds. World Bank missions would be called upon to assist in reviewing
procurement documentation as part of regular supervision activities.
77.   Country Procurement Assessment Report: A Country Procurement Assessment has not yet been
completed. However, procurement proposed under the project would follow the World Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.
78.   Procurement Information: Statistics regarding procurement administrationwould be collected and
recorded and will include: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the World Bank by the borrower, indicating, inter alia, revised
timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts.



Tob 2: Cost Estimans by Major Contrt an
Schedule of Critical Procwueme Steps
Under th Wodd Bank Loan
CRITICAL PRUEMENT SMEPS
COMPONENT                         CONTRACT TYPE & BASE coWr           tCtMeM MElHtO  of d iddina    1ssn   of lnviations    Si3  oPfI CpoN
_  _    _    __          ,          , _                                   ~~~~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Docomm_  fori
leal  d Regulatoy Refom           Consultants /             50,000  Pte.lify six fima and selction   April 1, 1993          April 20, 1993          June 30. 1993
Training                          based on price only
Compute  nd Equipment             Goods                     50.000  Inernationl Shopping (IS)        August IS. 1993         September IS, 1993      November IS. 1993
lnsitutional Support for Employment  Consultants I         640,000  Short list of six fins= wilh     May I. 1993             May 15, 1993           July 15. 1993
Offices                           Training                          sdection based on tehnia merit
Support for Ttsining of Trainers and   Consultants I       560,000  Same as above                    May 1. 1993             May IS, 1993           July 1S. 1993
dhe Unmployed                     TrininS
Conpute tin_  of LAbor Of fies    Supply and Insl         1,900,0o0   Intenio   Competitive Bidding    May 1, 1994          July 1, 1994            Sepember I. 1994
Tax Administration                CosulUts I               2_ 0.000  Short list of six finns with    May 1. 1993             May 15, 1993           July 15. 1993
Trining                           selection based on technical merit
Equipment for Tax Inspectomle     Goods                    170,000  IS                               August IS I993         Septmber 15, 1993       November 15. 1993
Custom  Admninistration and Trade  Consultants I          1,100,000  Sole souree (UNCTAD)            Apri. 1, 1993           April 20, 1993         June 30. 1993
Facilitin                         Training                                                     . .
Computer System for Customs       Supply and Install       270,000.  IS                              Janwry 1, 1994         Mach 1, 1994             April 15, 1994
Administ rati on_
Equipme  for Trade Facilitation   Goods                    180,000  IS                               August 15, 1993        September tS, 1993      November 15, 193
Eterpise Reforn - Industria Setor  Consultants I           900,0oo   Short list of aix firms with    Febnray 12, 1993       April 1. 1993           May 15. 1993
Resuctudring Study                Training                   .      selection based on technicl  it                          . .
- 33 -



coi cee Gove_mce                  CAsults I                300.000  Sme as above                     August IS, 1993         Setember 15. 1993       November 15. 1993
Odw Enate       Reform technical  Consltan  I            1.700.000  Same as above                    October 1. 1993         November 1. 1993        Fdbuiuy 1. 1994
asis tance                        Teaming_                                                                  _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  __   _   _     _   _  _   _  _  _
Equipmd for Enterpie Reform       Goods                    100,000  IS                               Augst 15, 1993          September 15, 1993      Noveniber 15, 1993
Prtgof Vouchers                   Goods                  1,000.000  Umited utematloa Biddng          Janury 1, ,94       .  Mab 1. 11994             May Y. 1994
-34 -



ARMEA
TECBHNCAL ASSISTANCE lPOJECT
KEY PROJECT ACVTIES
Main G    numiet Obective      Project Co"0pnent Acivities    ReposibeAency                   Exectd Resd I Imact            rmng
PA6T ONli ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
1. MACROECONOMIC POUCY FORMULATION I AID COORDINATION
Build capaciy for              Provision of expert a_sne
_ p d       B       ~      ~ Ipclyad eq*mn fo.
wis ad ftbtn ad
strte aid cood"o               0j) rgnizao shady of the       oMtry of Fiae (MOF)                                            2 monts. bete  Octber
Ministries of Finnce and       and Minstry of Ihe Econouy     ratonalion of functions         1993 and March 1994
Economy                        (MOE)                          and reorgzaton of
0)-  _              Ianalysis    MOE                            Fas d  op    24 mons beggJy
and aid coordnation                                             in           of Maco          l3
Division of De_atent of
FEomomic Maunsgement
(i) scto economic poicy   MOE                                    iand                         24monsbel J*
advice                                                        Independenc of nvestment        1993
-ivision of Depatent of
r  nomic Manage_m
ieablishing a debt             Mhinry of Fnce                 Instoament of an eective        October 1993
reposting nd ma_agement                                       deb reording and seicig
systm                                                         system
Traing in bodo  oonuAcs,       MOE                          S      oved             of        Tning to bein July 1993
tecni_ues zand pracie of                                                  sffOf
ocononuc pamuing and                                          ooonomzc, economic
analysis in dhe publi sector                                   ehnqe,  public sectr
aN  in pomuae                                                 umageme  iss and
-35-



Main Gvrnment Ob jecives      Project Component Acthvities   Responsible Agency             Expocted Resk I hnpact        r ng
It. LEGAL AND REGULA-TORY FRAMEWOREC
Sppot t  desiga and           Provision expert assistance
artiction of a bhuprint for   and equipment:
legitve aNd repualty
reforn, in partuar te         (i) Long4eten Legal            Departmt of Econonic           Comprehensive legal reform    July 1993 - December 1994
develpment of dhe private,    Coodintor heading legal        Refom                          and provision of a sound
m.wet economy                 asnc teanm                                                   legisative and regulatry
etnvionmet for conmercial
(i) Legal Expet with strong   Dqeatent of Economic           activities and the cmerging   Ocober 1993 - October 1994
expertise in corpoate and     Reform                         private sector
commeri law
(ii) senes of short term legal  Dqetment of Economio                                       July 1993 - December 1994
expers o an on as needed basis  Reform
(IV) taining programs,        Depatment of Econonic          Training program throu,g      beginning October 1993
mnars, lectres and oter       Refom an the Miisty of         wbich 250 legal professionals
materials                     Justice                        will have received inruction
-36-



Main Government Objectives    Project Component Activities  Responsible Agency            Expected Result I Impact      Trung
111. SOCIAL SAFETY NET I EMPLOYMENT ISSUES
To develop a system for       Fmance conslting sermce to    Departent of Econouo          Implemetation of a system     July 1993
redefining the poverty line,  define the povet line, assess    Reform and Ministy of Labor   for redefining povert and
develop options for btter     needs to improve moioring                                   analyZing assice optin
targeting the led socid       of living standards and                                     on a systematic basis
safety net assistace, and     produce social assistance
improve capacit to provide    projections, socnarios and
benefits and services         policies
Management consudting         Ministry of Labor             Improed procedur  and saff    Apri 1994
assisance to streamline                                     training in the labor offices
organization and management
of the labor offices
Expert assistance to develop  Ministry of Labor             Establish a tauining          June 199S
taining policy and design                                   infrastcture for the
retraining courses and taing                                unemployed and others
of trainers
Computerization of labor      Mnisty of Labor               Design and implemntation of    Design April 1994
offices                                                     a master plan for
computerization of the 41     Implementation
labor offices                October 1994
- 37-



Main Govenment Objectives      Project Componet Acivities     Responsile Agecy               Expected Result I bpact       Tning
PART TWO RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
IV. TAX ADMINISTRAlION
Improve the governmrt's        Provision of a senes of short-    Tax Inspecrat              Implemention of moae           July 1993 - July 199S
capacity tD desig appropriae   term visits by tax expes                                      efiet tax poics Nd
tax policies and admst  he akns o   cniue
tax progm
In-country traiing progam     Tax Insqorate                  Tr g progam develped           October 1993
for raines and tax officials                                 and opeting
ad inspectors
Provision of compts for tax    Tax Inspectorte               Estblish bas                   Oober 1993
offices                                                      computetion of anl Tax
lospetra offies
-38-



4! 4                 'i     ;T
~~t           11*1    i
I   §      U    U.{ 



Main Government Objectives    Project Coinponent Activities  Responsible Agency            Expected Result I Imp         Tuning
PART THREE: ENTERPRISE REFORM
VI. SUPPORT FOR ENTERPRISE REFORM
Improve the efficiency of the  Expert advice to prepare a   Privatization Board and       Provision of analytical basis  July 1993 - Deember 1993
real produeive sector in      study of eVport-orientd       Ministy of Industry           for setting privatzaton
Armenia through encouraging    indu    b-sectors                                          strategy
and facilitating privatizaton
Provision of strategic advice  Privatizaion Board and       Enhanced capacity of the      July 1993 - July 1995
on privadzaion ftrough long-    Commission.                 Privatizalion Board and
term resident consulta                                      Commisson to underke theik
work.
Consulting services to market    Privatization Board        Piivaizaton of a targeted 5   Aprit 1994 - October 1995
a limited number of large                                   companies
enteprises.
Traimng seminars on           Privatization Board           Develop procedures and stff   October 1993 - October 1995
valuation methodologies.                                    training for the Privatization
Board.
Expert assistance in          Privatization Board           Launching mass privatization  July 1993 - April 1994
detmining the voucher                                       through the voucher system
scheme and provision of their
printing costs.
Improve efficiency of the     Expert assistance to develop  Ministry of the Economy       Establishment of monitoring   January 1994 - December
productive sectors through    and implement actions to                                    capacity of public entepre     1994
inWproved performance of      improve management and                                      sector paeform e
public sector enterprises     financial performance for
enterprises remaining in the
public sector
- 40 -



Main Government Objectives    Project Component Activities   Responsible Agency             Expected Result I Impact      Timing
PART FOUR: FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
VU. FINANCIAL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE
Assist the government to deal    Provide senior advisors for  National Bank of Armema       Enhanced capacity at NBA for    July 1993 - July 1995
with operational problems in  baning supervion                                              banking supeviion
the short mn that must be
overcome to stabilize the     Finance expert ssstance to     Ministry of Finance            Greater capacity in           July 1993 - July 1995
finaniel sectr and establish  assist implementation of                                      government to assist
the infiastruoture needed for  intrnationa standard                                         commerca banks and state-
financal sector reform and    accounting and auditing                                       owned enterprises to report
developmert                   standards for Armeia's                                       thdeir financl data according
commercia banks and                                         to internstional accounting and
enutrprises                                                  uditing standards
Finance expert assistance to  Misry of the Economy and       Improved management           July 1993 - July l995
help government manage the    Natdona Bank                   capacity of the tat banks
state bans
Undertake strategic policy    Ministry of the Economy and    Background information and    April 1994
studies on financial systems  National Banik                 analysis for use by
development                                                  government agencies in
formulating financial sector
shiegy
[nstitute trinig programs for    National Bank               Training employees of         July 1993 - April 1994
commercia banking skills and                                 comnerci banks in
accouning                                                    commercial banidng sklVs and
strengthened accounting skills
in he economy
- 41 -



IBRD 23943F
GEORGIA         44D     T. D -o"i                45 hbo .Y-                                  RUSSIAN                     '                                   43
s.g h o                  T. ooW*                                                     FEDERATIO  N
k,kp   pok                                                   ,To5koook T - h h
41                                                                                   'P1  -k1gX  Tchk d o 
' OVAJ                                                    N~~~~~~LJ 
<                                           &> s. _f A RM E N IA A
ro  T.M-S                   Dams
o TOWNS /VLLAGES
To. r8adoM           ®) MAIN CITIES
*NAllONAL CAkPITAL            ~-
I -                                                                             AZERBAIJAN                     RNEORAD                                     40
-SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
T,.fi S        r             1|_ hlJb  I INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TURKEY                                   
\  X   AZERWiAN        <<                        \           A
CE   ISLAMIC        ResA *              T.hroec 48          /      t    hZanJ                                        R
_t 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC                                                                                           "i; gs  ,  1o    20  30 40
Sx-3                                 O F  IRAN                                                                                I,  .    ,          I      I   10 :   o o2 04 l 0T
44'                                 45'                                                                     47'                                 48t
|   t  |                              |                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1993



