Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3585 AM
Loan Agreement
(Institution Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 7, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3585 AM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
obtain: (i) grant funds in an amount equivalent to $3,700,000 from the United States 
Agency for International Development (USAID); and (ii) a grant in an amount equivalent 
to $1,000,000 from the European Community (EC) (USAID and EC hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the Cofinanciers) on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"PIU" means Project Implementation Unit established within the Borrower's 
Ministry of the Economy, Department of Foreign Economic Relations;
(b)
"Project Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower's ministries and 
other governmental agencies referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Employment Offices" means, collectively, the local agencies providing 
employment services and subordinated to the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social 
Protection;
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
2, 1992 and December 4, 1992 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twelve million dollars 
($12,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank,including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1996, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out, through the respective Project 
Agencies in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
Section 3.02. For the purpose of overall administration of the activities to be 
carried out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services required 
thereof, the Borrower shall maintain within the Ministry of the Economy the PIU to be 
headed by a full-time project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be 
acceptable to the Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers and having appropriate skills.
Section 3.03. Not later than April 30, 1994, the Borrower shall submit for the 
Bank approval a plan referred to in Part A (3,(c)) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  5
(a)
The USAID grant funds shall have failed to become available to ensure the 
carrying out on a timely basis of the activities described in Parts A(1) and D of 
Schedule 2, provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply 
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(b)
The EC grant funds shall have failed to become available by April 30, 
1994, to ensure the carrying out of the activities described in Part C (2) and (4) of 
Schedule 2, or such later date as the Bank may agree, provided, however, that the 
provision of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on the terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have appointed a project manager 
for the PIU in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of the Economy
Government House
Republic Square, 375010
Yerevan, Armenia
Fax:
Telex:
 
(7885) 252-4332 
243331 LADA SU
215-1069
215-1036
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  6
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shugarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               5,330,000        100%
    services,
    fellowships,
    and training
(2) Computers,                 3,670,000        100% of foreign
    equipment, other                            expenditures,
    materials                                   100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Unallocated                2,000,000
(4) Refunding of               1,000,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
         TOTAL                12,000,000
Page  7
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1993.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower's institutional 
capacity to design and implement economic reform; to help accelerate the reform 
process; and to help the restructuring of the economy by hastening the pace at which 
rehabilitation and investment operations can take place.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Economic Management
 
(1)
Economic Policy Formulation/Aid Coordination:
 
(a)
The design and development of a program for strengthening of the Ministry 
of the Economy capacity for macroeconomic and sectoral policy analysis and formulation 
and supporting its aid coordination capacity;
(b)
Carrying out of a study to clarify the relative roles and functions of 
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy;
(c)
The establishment of the debt reporting mechanism in the Ministry of 
Finance; and
(d)
Strengthening of the Statistical Department through provision of the 
equipment.
(2)
Legal Reform: The design and establishment of a legal and institutional 
framework for the private sector through the provision of legal advisory services, 
legal training and equipment necessary for the foregoing.
(3)
Social Safety Net/Employment Issues:
 
(a)
The design and implementation of plans to improve the capacity of 
employment service and to computerize the activities of the Employment Offices;
(b)
The development of a system for determining the poverty line and analysis 
of options for social assistance strategies; and 
(c)
The design and implementation of a plan for building capacity for 
providing relevant training and retraining for unemployed people.
Part B:
Resource Mobilization
 
(1)
Tax Administration: The provision of advisory services, training and 
computerization plans to improve the capacity of the Tax Inspectorate to design tax 
policies and administer the tax program.
(2)
Customs Administration/Trade Facilitation: The establishment of a customs 
administration in line with the transformation to a private, market economy and on the 
basis of international  standards through:
(a)
modernizing customs laws and regulations;
Page  8
(b)
reviewing the organization and procedures of customs operations;
 
(c)
providing essential training in various customs functions, such as 
classification and evaluation;
(d)
computerizing customs clearance procedures, accounts and statistics; and
 
(e)
promoting private sector development through the pilot establishment of a 
business service center or trade point.
Part C:
Enterprise Reform:
 
Carrying out of a program of enterprise privatization and restructuring by 
provision of:
(1)
consulting services in undertaking an industrial sector study to review policy 
options and appropriate targeting of restructuring and privatization efforts;
(2)
advisory and experts services to the State Privatization Commission and 
Privatization Board on strategy and methodology in preparing and implementing 
privatization transactions;
(3)
consulting services to market a limited number of large enterprises;
 
(4)
assistance to worker/management-initiated privatization and implementation of 
mass privatization;
(5)
in-service and external training and study tours; 
 
(6)
financing of voucher printing costs; and
 
(7)
consulting services in developing and implementing actions to improve management 
and financial performance for enterprises remaining in the state sector.
Part D:
Financial Reform:
 
The establishment of the infrastructure for financial sector reform through 
provision of expert assistance, training and equipment in the following areas:
(1)
banking supervision;
 
(2)
introduction of international standard accounting and auditing standards for 
commercial banks and enterprises;
(3)
training in commercial banking skills; and
 
(4)
financial sector strategic planning and services.
 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1996.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Agencies Responsible for
Execution of the Project
Part of the Project                  Agency
Part A (1)                           Ministry of the Economy
                                     Ministry of Finance
                                     Statistical Department
Part A (2)                           Department of Economic Reform
                                     Ministry of Justice
Part A (3)                           Ministry of Labor and Social
                                     Protection
Part A (3,b)                         Department of Economic Reform
Page  9
Part B (1)                           Tax Inspectorate
Part B (2)                           Customs Administration
Part C                               State Privatization
                                     Commission
                                     Privatization Board
                                     Ministry of the Economy
Part D                               National Bank of Armenia
                                     Ministry of Finance
                                     Ministry of the Economy
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1998                         225,000.00
March 15, 1999                             235,000.00
September 15, 1999                         240,000.00
March 15, 2000                             250,000.00
September 15, 2000                         260,000.00
March 15, 2001                             270,000.00
September 15, 2001                         280,000.00
March 15, 2002                             290,000.00
September 15,2002                          300,000.00
March 15, 2003                             310,000.00
September 15, 2003                         325,000.00
March 15, 2004                             335,000.00
September 15, 2004                         350,000.00
March 15, 2005                             360,000.00
September 15, 2005                         375,000.00
March 15, 2006                             390,000.00
September 15, 2006                         400,000.00
March 15, 2007                             415,000.00
September 15, 2007                         435,000.00
March 15, 2008                             450,000.00
September 15, 2008                         465,000.00
March 15, 2009                             485,000.00
September 15, 2009                         500,000.00
March 15, 2010                             520,000.00
September 15, 2010                         540,000.00
March 15, 2011                             560,000.00
September 15, 2011                         580,000.00
March 15, 2012                             600,000.00
September 15, 2012                         625,000.00
March 15, 2013                             630,000.00
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
Page  10
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to 
bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid 
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the 
other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be 
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Armenia may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items for Part C(6) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
through limited international bidding procedure on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids invited from a list of potential qualified suppliers broad enough 
to ensure competitive prices (at least three) eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000 
but less than $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Contracts for goods which are of proprietary nature or which require 
Page  11
standardization with existing equipment may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under International Competitive 
Bidding set forth in part A of Section 1 of this Schedule 4 and the first two 
contracts procured under international shopping and direct contracting procedures set 
forth in part C(2) and (4) of Section 1 of this Schedule 4, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  12
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Page  13
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
