                                                 Document of
                                             The WorldBank
                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                      Report No: 25921-LA




                                   PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA


                                            PROPOSEDCREDIT


           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 0.8 MILLION(US$ 4.82 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                   TO THE


                               LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC


                                                    FOR


                                  SECOND LANDTITLING PROJECT


                                                May 29,2003




RuralDevelopment and Natural ResourcesSector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




T h i s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange RateEffectiveMay 29,2003)
                             Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                                    LAK 1 = US$.0000938
                                  US$l.OO = LAK 10,650.00

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 October 1 -- September 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CES      Community Educationand Services
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CRS      Community Relations Services
DAO      District Administration Offices
DAFO     District Agnculture andForest Offices
DLO      District Land Office
DOF      Department of Forestry
DOL      Department of Lands
DONLUPAD Department of NationalLandUsePlanning andDevelopment
DSA      Department of State Assets Management
EMP      Environmental ManagementPlan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FINNIDA  Departmentfor International Development Cooperation,FinnishMinistry of Foreign
         Affairs
FMR      Financial Monitoring Reports
FMU      Financial ManagementUnit
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GAD      Gender andDevelopment
GIS      Geographic Information Systems
GOL      Governmentof Lao PDR
GPS      Global Positioning System
GPAR     Governanceand Public Administration ReformProgram
GTZ      GermanAgency for Technical Cooperation
HDSLA    K g hDiploma inSurvey andLandAdministration
HRD      Human Resources Development
IAPSO    Inter -Agency ProcurementServiceOffice
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IF1      InternationalFinanceInstitution
I-PRSP   InterimPoverty Reduction Startegy Paper
IRR      ImplementingRules and Regulations
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPI      Key PerformanceIndicators
Lao PDR  Lao People's Democratic Republic

                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
      LTP       FirstLandTitling Project
      LTPII SecondLandTitlingProject
      LTPO      LandTitling Project Office
      LUPILA    LandUse Planning and Land Allocation
      LWU       Lao Women's Union
      MAF        Ministryof Agriculture andForestry
      M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
      MOF        Ministryof Finance
      M o U      Memorandum of Understanding
      NCB        NationalCompetitive Bidding
      NEM        New Economic Mechanism
      NGD        NationalGeographic Department
      NLPC       NationalLandPolicy Committee
      NPEP      NationalPoverty Eradicaction Program
      NPV        Net Present Value
      PER        Public Expenditure Review
      PFD        Planning and FinanceDivision of D O L
      PFS        Planning and Finance Section of the ProvincialLandOffices
      PFU        ProjectFacilitationUnit
      PPFU       ProvincialProject Facilitation Unit
      PLO        ProvincialLand Office
      POC        Project (Provincial) Oversight Committee
      PSC        Project Steering Committee
      PSU        Project Support Unit
       QCBS      Quality Cost-Based Selection
       SA        Special Account
       SAT       Surveying and Adjudication Team
       SBCQ      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
       SIDA      Sweden InternationalDevelopment Agency
       SOE       State-Owned Enterprise
       TLUCS     Temporary LandUse Certificates
       VIS       Valuation InformationSystem




                                   Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director:     IanC. Porter, EACTF
                                   Sector Director:    MarkD.Wilson, EASRD
                               Task Team Leader:       Wael Zakout, EASRD


This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                            LAOPEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                               SECONDLANDTITLING PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                         Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performanceindicators                                                           2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   11

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  13
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       14
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
   4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements                                         16

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            18
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         19
   3. Lessons leamed and reflectedinthe project design                                    19
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    21
   5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                          21

E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                            21
   2. Financial                                                                           22
   3. Technical                                                                           23
   4. Institutional                                                                       23
   5. Environmental                                                                       25
   6. Social                                                                              27
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  32

F.Sustainability andRisks

  1. Sustainability                                                                    33
  2. Critical risks                                                                    33
  3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                                                     34


G. MainCredit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           34
  2. OtherConditions                                                                   35

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                         36

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                           36



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        37
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                   43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary, or Cost-EffectivenessAnalysis Summary           57
Annex 5: FinancialSummary for Revenue-EarningProject Entities, or Financial Summary    63
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                                                   64
          (B)FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                            73
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                    82
Annex 8: Documents inthe ProjectFile                                                   83
Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits                                                 84
Annex 10:Country at a Glance                                                           86
Annex 11:Community Education and Services                                              88
Annex 12: Environmental Analysis                                                       93
Annex 13: LegalFramework                                                               99
Annex 14: InstitutionalIssues                                                          101
Annex 15: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                    107

                                  LAOPEOPLESDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                       Second Land Titling Project
                                    Project AppraisalDocument
                                       East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                 EASRD

Date: May 29,2003                                    Team Leader: Wael Zakout
Sector Managermirector: Mark D.Wilson                Sector(s): General public administration sector (50%),
Country Managermirector: Ian C. Porter               General agriculture, fishingand forestry sector (50%)
Project ID: PO75006                                  Theme(s): Land management (P)
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)
       -
 Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan      [XI Credit    [ ]Grant     [ ]Guarantee        [ ]Other:
~




 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Amount (US$m): 14.82

 ProposedTerms (IDA): Standard Credit
 Grace period(years): 10                             Years to maturity:40
 Commitmentfee: Standard                             Service charge: Standard%



D A                                                                                                     14.82
AUSTRALIA: A U S T W I A N AGENCY FOR                       1        0.00
                                                                     9'69    1         5'13
                                                                                       6.84    1        6.84
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT
Total:                                                              11.61             12.31            23.92

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The proposed Second Land Titling Project (LTP II) be the second phase of the long term land titling
                                                      will
program aiming at the development of the land administration capacity to support the country's economic
development and poverty reduction goals. The project would contribute to the government's National
Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP) under preparation. The objectives of the project are to (i)   improve
the security of land tenure; (ii)develop transparent and efficient land administration institutions at the
national and provincial levels; and (iii)improve the government's capacity to provide social and
economic services through broader revenue base from property related fees and taxes. These objectives
would be achieved through formulating and approving land policy and regulatory changes, strengthening
institutional capacity and project management, accelerating land titling activities in areas of high
demand, developing and implementing an efficient and transparent land registration system, and
strengthening landvaluation systems.


2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators include measures of improved land tenure security, such as reduction in land
disputes, increased investment in urban areas, and growth in agricultural productivity. They include
benchmarks for more efficient land administration institutions, such as an increase in formal land
transactions registration, performance and service standards indicators for land offices, as well as
benchmarks for increasing government revenues from land related taxes and fees. Output indicators
include number of titles issued, number of land office buildings with established and efficient
Community Education and Services (CES) and forward-planning processes for land titling, number of
land offices with established property valuation system, and number of students having graduated from
the HighDiploma in Surveying and Land Administration offered by the Polytechnic School.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19098-LA        Date of latest CAS discussion:April 20, 1999

The CAS for the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), which was submitted to the Board of
Directors of the International Development Association (IDA) in March 1999, outlined IDA assistance
strategy for the period 2000-2002. The fundamental objective of this CAS was to focus on poverty
reduction efforts with the ultimate goal of accelerating GDP growth. The first Lao Land Titling Project
(LTP) is mentioned in this CAS as one of the main elements of the strategy to achieve poverty reduction
and private sector growth. LTP was designed to directly support the achievement of two of the five
objectives of the last CAS, which are to: (i)support the development of the private sector; and (ii)
investing in rural development and natural resources management and improving agriculture productivity
to increase economic growth. However, LTP IIwas not identified at the time of preparation of the last
CAS (since it was scheduled for FY2004) and, therefore, not mentioned as part of the specific lending
program for the CAS period. Nevertheless, the proposed LTP IIi s the second phase of a long-term
land-titling program to develop the land administration capacity to support economic development and
poverty reduction goals, and its objectives are fully consistent with the last CAS. A new CAS i s under
preparation to cover the period 2003-2005, and the land-titling program (including the proposed LTP II)
will certainly be an integral part of the strategy. The new CAS will support the implementation of the
National Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP) under preparation (as Lao PDR's PRSP). Although the
NPEP has not been finalized yet, the I-PRSP included an analysis of poverty in Lao PDR which



                                                    - 2 -

highlighted the importance of land policy and land management to provide the basis for poverty
reduction and economic growth. The proposed project will provide secure land titles in urban areas,
which provide security for property development and access to credit for the property sector. The titles
could also be used as collateral to access credit for the purpose of developing businesses. In addition, the
proposed project will also provide secure land titles for peri-urban areas, most of which (75%) i s
agricultural land, and lowland agricultural areas, providing incentives for rural land holders to invest in
agricultural land and in sustainable agricultural practices. The titles could also be used to access credit
for agriculture inputs and land improvement. Several rural development projects in Laos financed by
donors (such as irrigation projects) request for land titles to be provided to the beneficiaries before the
start of these projects. The information dissemination and community participation activities of the
project will ensure that the most vulnerable households are aware of the risks and benefits of usingland
as collateral, and the project will seek, through information campaigns, studies and/or collaboration with
other partners, to promote better linkages with the finance sector. In addition, as part of its land policy
development component, the project will support research on customary practices around land rights and
communal land tenure to prepare the ground for addressing, at a later stage of the country's land reform
program, the broader issues associated with land management in rural areas not yet covered by the
project.

The Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) country strategy also has a focus on
poverty alleviation, with strategic support to the Government of Lao PDR (GOL) own reform agenda.
The strategy highlightsthe need for the equitable distribution of the benefits of development as well as
the need to enhance GOL's effective management of available resources. The project i s therefore in line
with AusAID country strategy.

2. Mainsector issuesand Government strategy:

Land,People andthe Economy
With an estimated per capita income of US$320 in 2001 (see Table l), Lao PDR is the poorest and
                                                                          the
least developed country in the East Asia regon, and one of the poorest in the world. Bordered by
Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, China, and Myanmar, landlocked Lao PDR covers 236,800 square
lulometers with a population of 5.3 million growing at 2.5 percent per annum. More than three-quarters
of the population lives on less than US$2 a day. Of the Lao inhabitants, about 80% resides in rural areas,
and 39% (in 1997/98) lives below the national poverty line. Social indicators are among the worst in the
region, and closer to the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. With its vast natural resources of forestry,
minerals and hydro-electric power, and its geographical position at the center of the rapidly growing
Mekong region, Lao PDR i s well positioned to accelerate growth and redress poverty. However, Lao
PDR i s still heavily reliant on external support; indeed, a significant amount of public investment
expenditures are financed by donors. In Lao PDR agnculture remains the major sector of the economy,
contributing 50.9 percent of GDP and employing over 80 percent of the labor force; the industrial and
service sectors in total account for just 49.1 percent of GDP in 2001 (23.4% for industry and 25.7% for
services).

The population density of the country has risen from 15 personshi2 in 1985, to 23 personshi2in 2000.
While the country i s predominantly agricultural, it is the urban areas that are experiencing the fastest
growth, both in total population and household formation. For example, the national population grew
from 3.6 to 5.2 million or an increase of 39 percent, inthe period 1985 to 1997 (1997/98 LECS2), but the
Vientiane municipality population increased by 50 percent, from 381,000 to 572,000 people during the
same period. The difference was more pronounced in tenns of household or family numbers. Nationally,
the number of families or households increased from 601,797 to 783,376, or 30 percent, from 1985 to



                                                     - 3 -

 1997, compared to an increase of 49 percent for Vientiane Prefecture, which increased from 61,561 to
 92,000 households. The National Statistics Center's 1997/98 LECS2 Report determined that the average
 household size in urban areas was 6.3, and slightly larger (6.5 persons) in rural areas. As the population
 and economic activities increase in urban areas, so does demand for land and the need to improve
 efficiency of land use and land administration.


 Two basic types of land parcels can be distinguished in the country: home plots or parcels used for
 residential purposes, and agricultural land parcels. In 1993-94, there was a total of 394,417 hectares (ha)
 of land in use and subject to tax. Paddy and rice fields comprised 65 percent of the total area. Some 15
 percent o f the Lao households were in possession of irrigated land and 64 percent possessed dry land.
 Only 29,928 ha of land were utilized for urban uses. According to the 1997/98 National Agncultural
 Census, the average size of cultivated holdings for Lao households i s about 1.6 ha, with an average of 2
 parcels per holding. 36% of land holdings have less than 1ha of land, 36% of holdings have between 1
 and 2 ha of land, and 27% have 2 ha or more.


        Landholdings
        Number of agricultural households ('000)            798
        Number of agncultural holdings ('000)               668
        Number of urban households ('OOO)*                  149
        Number of urban holdings ('000)"                    200
        Farmpopulation ('000)                              4,058
        Urban population ('OOO)*                            1,142.61
        Average householdsize                              6.5
        b
        Landuse (% of land)**
        Arable land                                         3
        Permanent Pasture
           orest                                           1:,
        Other land (includes urban areas)                  40
        LandTenure (AgriculturalandUrban)
        LandTenure (% of land)
        -- other land
           inowner-like possession                          97
                                                            3
        Percent of holdings rentingland (%)                 5




Historyof Land Titling

Landtitles were originally established with the creation of the Land Book in 1912 and were kept in force
under a Royal Order of 23 May 1958. These titles certified ownership of land and were supported by
cadastral plans and maps for the towns of Vientiane, Pakse, Savannakhet, and Luang Prabang. While
these original records were not maintained, there were a number of subsequent initiatives made for the
establishment and maintenance of cadastral systems but they could not be sustained and were eventually
abandoned after 1975. Since 1975, despite the fact that all land became vested in the State, and the fact
that approximately one quarter of the urban population fled to neighboring countries, land use rights were
informally recognized and a process of administering and recording transactions with those rights
developed. This basic process i s still in place today and, although land use rightsnow have legal standing



                                                     - 4 -

 and registration of transactions with those rights i s required by law, the system i s one of registration of
 transactions not involvingcertification of title. However, this system i s not in place uniformly in all areas
 of the country and, in those areas in which it is inplace, it is not being fully usedby the people.

 The number of parcels in the country is not known with accuracy. Estimates made during the preparation
 of the first LandTitling Project (LTP) suggesteda total number of about 1.6 million parcels.

 The objective of the LTP was to develop the legal and regulatory framework for land administration, and
 issue land titles to around 300,000 parcels in Vientiane Prefecture and the provinces of Vientiane,
 Savannakhet, Champassack, and Luang Prabang. A brief description of the first project, including its
 achievements and lessons learnedthrough its implementation thereof i s includedbelow.

 Rationalefor LandTitling

Since the introductionof reforms under the New Economic Mechanism (NEM)in 1986, the Government
has been transforming the economy from a centrally planned to a market-oriented system. The structural
reforms and sound macroeconomic management initiated under the NEM fostered a steady movement
towards macroeconomic stability, production growth, the emergence of a small private sector, and
increased foreign direct investment and trade flows, particularly with neighboring countries.

A major element of the Government's policy insupporting the transition from centrally planned to market
economy has been the development of efficient markets for land, capital and labor to complement
improvements in the capacity of the public sector to both plan and implement development programs.
Efficient land markets and security of land tenure, on which they depend, are important in order to permit
land to get allocated to its most efficient use and users and to encourage land-related investments and
sustainable use of land. While land markets are now in existence inLao PDR, they are not yet considered
to operate efficiently, effectively or openly. Land i s being traded but the turnover figures, as measured by
recorded land transactions, are not high and transactions are hampered by the problems of establishing
occupancy and use ownership rights. There i s a prevalence of illegal possession, sale and use of land and
a large number of court cases relating to land, many of which are hampered by lack of ascertainable
rights to and clear information on land; all these represent symptoms of an inefficient land market.
Moreover, the great majority of the sale transactions are not registered. And since land registration i s not
common, there are foregone opportunities of usingland as collateral to obtain loans from banks.

Another missing link in the necessary framework for efficient land use has been the absence of a land
valuation profession and capacity in Lao PDR. A land valuation function i s important for both the
Government and the private sector in their activities related to economic development. With the creation
of thevaluation Information System (VIS) through the LTP, this problem i s being addressed, albeit that
there remains much scope for further development and expansion of the coverage of the existing system.
The Government i s already benefiting from the improved valuation capacity, as it assists in determining
the value of land and other properties for purposes of assessingrental tax, land registration fees and land
tax. It i s important for the Ministry of Finance' (MOF) Department of State Assets Management (DSA) to
have a valuation capacity to enable it to determine the most appropriate lease terms for the properties that
are being leased out to the private sector as well as compensation values for properties acquired by the
Government. On the private sector side, the banlung industry represents the largest known demand for
valuation related services. Mortgage lending activity has been very small, due in part to the lack of a
complete and trusted system of registration but also due to the lack of reliable estimates of value (in
particular, outside of Vientiane Prefecture and a few of the larger towns in the country) on which to base
the loan. There are indications that the LTP is impactingpositively on the banking sector, in particular
with regard to raising certainty in the system. The recent "Banking and Financial Sector Note of Lao


                                                     - 5 -

PDR" (July 15, 2002, Bank of Lao PDR/ADB/World Bank) included a chapter on the legal framework
andjudicial enforcement covering the question of "secured transactions" and the use of land as collateral.

The Institutional Frameworkfor LandAdministration

The Law on Land of 1997 sets out the main institutional responsibilities for land management and
administration in Lao PDR and defines seventeen specific functions of land management which
government must fulfill. Management responsibilities for these functions are assigned in a general way to
a set of ten ministries, with the Ministry of Finance assigned to "take charge of centralized management
through land registration, land titling and land leasing". Within the ministries in charge of land
management functions, specific areas such as landtitling are the responsibility of individual departments.
The Lao government is undergoing a process of decentralization, based on the Governance and Public
Administration Reform Program (GPAR), supported by UNDP. The joint PER conducted in 2002 by the
World Bank, IMF and ADB discusses further implementation of the decentralization process and
analyzes fiduciary implications. Central government departments now typically oversee policy and
planning functions while provincial and district level agencies are responsible for implementation. They
report to and are funded by provincial government.

The Department of Lands (DOL) under the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The DOL i s the core national
agency responsible for the design and implementation of land administration programs. D O L i s the
agency that has been responsible for the implementation of the first project. The mandate of DOL, as
defined by the Prime Minister's Office Decree (No. 104) dated 6 July 1993, i s to carry out, under the
direction of the Land Re-Management Committee, the design and supervision of national land
registration and titling programs through the offices of the provincial services. The DOL, while expanded
and strengthened during the implementation of the first project, still has limited resources and
capabilities, a factor that needs to be fully recognized in the formulation of a national land registration
program. The total staff of DOL has expanded from 19 at the begmning of the LTP to around 45 in the
central office and another 360 staff directly involved in land titling inthe provinces.

The Department of National Land Planning and Development (DONLUPAD) under the Office of the
Prime Minister. The newly created DONLUPAD has the responsibility of assisting the Government in
ensuring coordination and implementation of national policy, legislation and regulation of land
administration and management, state management and administration (macro-management) of land
survey, land use planning and land development throughout the country (Office of the Prime Minister,
Decree 237 of 11December 2001). It succeeds and takes over some of the responsibilities of the former
Land Re-Management Committee. The Department consists of 4 divisions, namely the Division of Land
Legal Documents, the Division of Land Control, the Division of Land Development and Promotion, and
the Administrative and InformationDivision.

The main functions of this new Department are to:

e   disseminate and implement legislation, regulations etc. relating to land management and
    administration;
e   coordinate with other agencies concerned with drafting policies, legislation and regulations to be
    submitted to the Government and NationalAssembly for approval and promulgation;
e   undertake surveys and planningin order to determine and manage land categories:
e   co-operate with agencies and Ministries concerned with strategic planning for land use and
    development;
e   at the request of macro-agencies and local administrative authorities, study and put forward
    suggestions for the resolution of land disputes;


                                                    - 6 -

0   implement projects and programs assignedby the government;
    monitor projects and activities of central and local government agencies and report to the
    Government before taking decisions on land use for parcels under Government authority;
0   control the implementation of existing orders, regulations, etc. to ensure compliance;
0   make contact and cooperate with other countries and international organizations concerning land
    issues, based on the direction of the government; and
0   manage personnel in compliance with regulations, assign staff to positions in a suitable manner,
    suggest ways to improve organization structures of land agencies at local government level.

Provincial Divisions of Finance. Administratively, the country is divided into 17 Provinces plus one
special region and further divided into 129 Districts. At provincial level, the Division of Finance carries
out the major functions relating to land administration. The actual implementation of the LTP was done
through the Division of Financein the project provinces.

The National Geographic Department (NGD) under the Office of the Prime Minister. The Department
has the responsibility for carrying out mapping services, such as the establishment of the geodetic
control, aerial photography and orthophoto mapping. The Department has played a key role in supporting
the surveying and mapping activities of the LTP and i s expected to continue to play a key role in the
second project, through the provision of control points to support systematic adjudication and the supply
of base maps.

Department of State Assets Management (DSA) under the Ministry of Finance. The DSA is responsible
for the registration, supervision and maintenance of the assets in the form of property, land and
enterprises owned by the State. The DSA i s the holder of the national Government's shares in enterprises
which are divested through privatization, and has been the major player in the privatization program. The
Department maintains a register of national Government entities that have been privatized. The DSA i s
responsible for registering and maintaining a register of leasesbetween foreign investors and Lao entities
relating to state property. Provincial level state State Assets Divisions carry out the same functions for
provincial Government owned assets and, as a result, considerable overlap in functions occurs
particularly in Vientiane Prefecture where DSA carries out a hands-on registration program in parallel
with the Prefecture administration. The DSA has received support from the ongoing Land Titling Project
mainly through Technical Assistance (TA) provided by the Australian government in developing policies
on state land leasing. Implementation of these policies can however only take place once the Prime
Minister issues the decree on state land leasing.

Department of Forestry (DOF) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). DOF is
responsible for implementing the program of land use planning and land allocation (LUPLA) which is
being undertaken in rural areas. Through the District Agriculture and Forest Offices (DAFO) and District
Administration Offices (DAO), Temporary Land Use Certificates have been issued to over 330,000
households. At least another 300,000 such certificates are expected to be issued. Registration of these
rights,however, is the responsibility of DOL.

The LegalFramework

Since the early 1990s, the government has moved to formalize the land administration system. The 1991
Constitution affirmed the rights of individuals to use land. The Fifth Party Congress (March 1991)
identified the need to accelerate land registration and issue land title certificates so that the use rights for
each parcel of land were be clearly defined. Land management and administration policies are reflected
mainly in the decrees that followed the promulgation of the Constitution in 1991. The LTP has supported
the development of most of the existing legal and regulatory framework for land administration:


                                                    - 7 -

(a) Laws: the Property Law (Ownership Law of 1990), and the Land Law (33/PO of 1997). The Land
Law of 1997 has six parts. Part One establishes that all land in the National territory i s owned by the
State. The State may grant several types of right to citizens: protection right, use right, usufruct right,
transfer right and inheritance right. Use rights can be temporary or permanent. Talung land as a
commodity for buying and selling, and land speculation are prohibited, but holders of permanent use
rightshave the right to transfer them.

Part Two on land management defines a number of national land management functions and sets up a
classification scheme for all land in seven categories (Agricultural land; Forest land; Construction land;
Industrial land; Communication land; Cultural land; Land for national defense and for peace-keeping;
Water-area land). Each class of land is to be managed by a corresponding Ministry. Maximumsize limits
for various types of agricultural land are established. Part Two also establishes provisions for land
registration. Land registration i s officially carried out in the Land Register Book at the provincial or
municipal level on the basis of either systematic or sporadic registration. Land certificates are established
as the record of provisional use rights. The rights recorded on the land certificate may be inherited but
not transferred or used as guarantees or share capital. Land titles are established as the record of
permanent land use rights.Land titles can be inherited, transferred, mortgaged and used as share capital.
Landcertificates may be convertedto landtitles based on application.

Part Three of the Land Law regulates the different rights and establishes that foreigners may only lease
land, for a maximumperiod of fifty years. Part Three also establishes that Lao who have fled the country
have no land claims. Landrights established duringthe war are also invalid.

Part Four of the LandLaw establishes that control of land use i s the responsibility of the seven ministries
who manage land according to the seven classes established in Part Two. The Ministry of Finance is
designated to be responsible for land registration, land leasing and land allocation. Part Five of the Land
Law concerns dispute settlements and violations. Part Six contains Final Provisions.

The Land Law of 1997 expressly repealed a number of previous laws - the articles 22/CPM of 1989 on
the management of agricultural land, 129/PM of 1979 on "The land and houses of reactionaries
sentenced by the Court" and 99/PM- the Land Law of 1992 (Article 86). This article also specifies that
other regulations inconsistent with the Land Law are repealed.

(b) PresidentialDecrees on LandTax (03/PD of 2000).

(c) Prime Ministerial Decrees on Document Registration (52/PM of 1993), transforming State land use
rights and ownership of houses, vehicles and essential household equipment to Government personnel
ownership (194/PM of 1994 - apparently amended by 3900NoF of 1996), on implementing the Land
Law (22/PM of 1999), on the implementation of the Presidential Decree on Land Tax (150/PM of 2000),
and on the organization and activities of the Department of National Land Use Planning and
Development (237/PM of 2001).

(d) Ministerial Directions on the fee for issuing titles (2232NoF of 1997), on land parcel registration
system (996NoF of 1998), on systematic adjudication of landuse rights (997NoF of 1998), on sporadic
adjudication of land use rights (998/MoF of 1998), on the position, roles and functions, rights,
organizational structure and worlung method of the D O L (1362NoF of 1999) and on cadastral surveying
and mapping (748NoF of 2000).

The seventh Congress of the Party (2001) highlighted the need to develop the land policy framework as


                                                     - 8 -

 regards land use and land allocation, inparticular inagricultural areas. It further emphasized the potential
 impact of land management in laying the foundation for the country's economic development.

 The First Land Titling Project (LTP)

The objectives of LTP were to foster the development of efficient land markets and to facilitate domestic
resource mobilization in order to achieve the ultimate goal of strengthening the basis for long term
sustainable economic and social development in Laos. The project included the following components:

(a) the completion of the development of the landpolicy and legal framework for land administration and
management;
(b) the implementation of an accelerated landtitling program;
(c) improvements ininfrastructure, facilities and land administration systems;
(d) improvements inlandvaluation;
(e) support for institutionalstrengthening; and
(f)studies on community land tenure and registration, definition of forest boundaries, cost recovery, land
rightsissues on nationalized land and the socio-economic impact of land titling.

The project was appraised in 1995 and presented to the Board in early 1996. The Credit became effective
around mid 1997. Delay in effectiveness was due to the late mobilization of TA, caused by different
processing schedules of AusAID and IDA. The project cost was around US$29 million; around US$20
million was financed by IDA, US$6 million by AusAID and the remaining US$3 million was financed by
government counterpart funds.

This project has been successful in the development of the regulatory framework and the implementation
of the property valuation component. The revised Land Law was passed in 1997 and several decrees on
land administration and property valuation have been prepared and enacted. The project was less
successful in the issuance o f land titles. The project was designed to issue land titles to around 300,000
parcels in Vientiane Prefecture and the provinces of Vientiane, Savannakhet, Champassack, and Luang
Prabang. Later, four more provinces were added for semi-systematic land titling. The number of titles
issued under the project has been much lower than initially planned, due to factors that include the lack
of government counterpart funds during the period from 1997 to 1999, weak staff capacity and
bottlenecks in the technical processes. An assessment of the impact of the first project and lessons
learned was undertaken inFebruary 2002. A summary of the assessmenti s providedbelow.

Review of the Socio-EconomicImpact of the First LandTitling Project

The design of the LTP included several studies to assess the socio-economic and environmental impact
of the project. Following procurement delays, the Land Tenure and Forest Lands study was only
completed in May 2002, and the Social Assessment study in December 2002. A comprehensive
socioeconomic impact assessmentwill be conducted in the year 2003.

Inview of these delays, and in order to get initial insights about the impact of the project and to identify
some lessons for the design of the second project, a review mission was sent to Lao PDR in February
2002 to conduct a brief assessment of the socioeconomic impact of the first project. In view of time and
financial resources limitations, the review mission focused on Vientiane Prefecture. In addition to
conducting a small household survey in six urban and peri-urban villages, the team interviewed numerous
government officials in the Prefecture (at central, provincial and village level), representatives from four
banks, and one realtor. As land titling has only occurred fairly recently, and relevant socioeconomic
statistics are generally laclunginLao PDR,it was difficult to isolate and measure the economic impact of


                                                    - 9 -

titling.However, the study made the following observations, which were later on confirmed by the Social
Assessment study:

(a) There i s strong demand for land titles in urban areas. There are numerous reports of individuals
registering land individually at considerable cost. There are also demands being made on central
government by provinces to expand the coverage of the Land Titling Project. Demand for land titling in
unserved provinces i s strong, with people havinggenerally good knowledge of benefits and risks.

(b) Government land administration revenue has been boosted through the land-related taxes and fees
introduced through the project. The titling project has assisted government officials (and in particular
district officials) in verifying land tax registers and setting collection targets. (the systematic titling
system and the fonnal recording of parcel ownership prevent landlords from understating the number of
taxable parcels they possess and therefore the size of taxable land). Although land tax revenue at this
point in time still represents only a relatively small portion of total government revenue, it has increased
from around Kip 10 billion in 1999/00 to around Kip 26 billion in 2001/02. In addition to the land tax
and fee revenue income to the Government, the Department of State Assets in the Ministry of Finance
gets an income from the lease and sale of government property. The VIS, and in particular the zoning
tables established through the LTP i s perceived as a useful tool to assist the State in determining realistic
property values on which to base rental rates.

(c) Some individuals who received titles under the project have used the titles as collateral to get bank
loans, and used the loan money to expand existing businesses or establish new (small) businesses. With
titles as collateral, obtaining longer term loans from banks has to some extent been made easier (family
and money lenders prefer giving shorter-term loans). This has apparently promoted larger projects
investments such as building apartment blocks, etc. Bankers considers the VIS as a useful credit
assessment tool, together with reliability of land titles and ease of verification. However, at this point,
unlike what has been the case inThailand, titling has not yet had any measurable impact on interest rates.

(d) There is some evidence suggesting that land titling has positively impacted on property transactions
and building and construction activities in the Vientiane Prefecture area. The number of registered
property transactions (registration of dealings in land use rights) in the 100 village area included in the
VIS appear to have increased significantly since 2000 (aftedduring titling in much of the area). Building
and construction activities may also have in part been stimulated by titling - the number of building
permits issued for example rose substantially between 1996/97 (shortly after the project was launched)
and 1997/98, but this is not conclusive. Economic benefits in terms of increased sale and mortgage value
of titled land are visible but these cannot be isolated from overall growth in business due to the longer
time span required for economic impact.

(e) The LTP appears to have stimulated discussion about the rights of women with regard to owning land
use rights, as well as inheritance issues. It has also promoted the involvement of the Lao Women's Union
(LWU)incommunity outreach. The number of titled landparcels registeredjointly and inthe names of
women exceeded the number registeredin the name of males, as opposed to provinces not covered by the
project. Inaddition, the Social Assessment study found out that the project has improvedwomen's access
to resources as nearly half of the mortgaged lands in the survey sample belonged to women. C o m i t y
Relations Services (CRS) has played a key role in information dissemination to the beneficiaries,
especially women, about project processes, benefits and risks. In particular, community outreach
activities have raised the issue of risks associated with land titling, especially the danger of titleholders
making land sales without full understanding of the transaction.

(f)In addition to the above, the project has in some instances forced simmering land disputes into the


                                                     -10-

open, and has assisted in resolving a number of these in an orderly fashion. The Social Assessment study
confirmed that there has been a decreasein land disputes and a greater sense of tenure security among the
beneficiaries after landtitling.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The experience and lessons learned under the LTP point toward a set of three issues in the land
administration and management sector which should be areas of focus for LTP II.       These issues are:

(a) Continuing insecurity of tenure. Notwithstanding the accomplishments of the LTP, the majority of
property holders in Lao PDR still lack legally recognized, long-term rights for their property. The ability
to make legally bindingtransactions and to use land as collateral for loans i s still not available to most
property holders in both urban and rural areas. The demand for titles is especially high in areas of high
population density and growth, undergoing rapid commercial and industrial development and a
concentration of economic development activities and employment opportunities, such as urban and
peri-urban areas. Where investments in the development of agricultural land and intensification of
agncultural practices are underway (e.g. irrigation projects), there i s also a strong demand for the
provisionof land titles. The use of systematic land titling and registration procedures inproject areas will
ensure that all households, including the poorest ones, have access to land titles at an affordable cost.

(b) Lack of resolution inpolicy and regulatory decisions. Many important policy decisions (for example,
the extension of the period for disposal of excess land ownership, or the conditions under which
temporary land use certificates will be convertedto titles) have been delayedfor years. The Government's
ability to define policy positions based on research and consultation, to create consensus among agencies
involved, and to effectively implement them is admittedly holding back the resolution of a number of
problems. Furthermore, a number of issues in implementing the Land Law have emerged since its
passage, mostly because of the lack of explicit instructions for procedural handling of the law's
provisions during first registration. This lack of legal and procedural clarity applies to situations of
disposal of land under foreign ownership, land in excess of the size limits prescribed by the Land Law,
parcels covering planned roads, land under corporate ownership and the land of Lao who fled. The land
of Lao who fled i s in many cases occupied by a relative, and i s a politically charged issue with much at
stake for Lao living outside the country. A draft ministerial order which would recognize the rights of
peaceful occupants has been under review for some time without action. The draft decree would also
provide instructions for handlingthe other issues duringfirst registration untilcomprehensive procedures
for resolving these cases are put in place.

(c) Institutional weaknesses. The current institutional setting in D O L and provincial and district land
offices, including the separate arrangements for the implementation of the LTP, i s not conducive to the
sustainable strengthening of the D O L and provincial and district land offices and to the long-term
development of the land administration. Project management and implementation functions need to be
mainstreamed in DOL'S structure to avoid duplication of functions. The lack of sufficient and skilled
staff, including in provincial land offices, i s negatively affecting the quality of services delivered, in
particular the capacity to develop forward-planning processesfor land titling, good coordination between
CRS and the adjudication process, and eventually the number of titles delivered. In addition, in order to
ensure the sustainability of the land administration system and to maximize the benefits of land titling for
the Lao people and the government, CRS activities need to be upgraded and revamped to cover the whole
range of land administration activities and to respond to the demand for "post-titling" information and
advice about legal issues and other issues related to the use of titles (e.g. access to credit). The functional
line of command between D O L and provincial land offices also needs to be strengthened to avoid
staffing and human resources management conflicts, as experienced duringthe first project.



                                                   -11   -

Strategic Choices

Important factors in ensuring the success and longer term sustainability of the Land Titling Project are
the development and clarification of the land policy and regulatory framework, the strengthening of the
land administration system, the establishment of partnerships with other donors operating in Lao PDR,
and a carefully phased expansion of project activities based on demonstrated capacity of the land
administration to move to new provinces.

Support to landpolicy and regulatory framework development

Despite some progress in the development of the legal and regulatory framework for land administration,
lack of clarity in the legal framework and lack of resolution of a number of policy issues have been major
obstacles to meeting the objectives of the first project. The government has showed its commitment to
improving and clarifying the legal and policy framework for land administration and land management
by creating DONLUPAD under the Prime Mmister's Office, with a clear mandate for coordinating the
development of the national land policy framework. More recently, in March 2003, the government has
also approved the establishment of a National Land Policy Committee (NLPC) to facilitate inter-agency
coordination on landpolicy issues. DONLUPAD will act as the Secretariat of the NLPC. The project will
help build DONLUPAD's capacity to coordinate the development of the national land policy and
regulatory framework, and will support the formulation and adoption of key land policies for land
administration and management.

Institution strengthening

The first project has focused on the development of the legal and regulatory framework, on developing
the procedures, guidelines, and the capacity for systematic land adjudication and issuance of land titles
and the associated CRS, and on cadastral surveying and mapping and other technical processes. These
achievements need to be consolidatedby the development of the institutionalcapacity of the central D O L
and provincial and district land offices, the improvement of service delivery and land office functions,
and human resources development in all aspects of land administration. The proposed project will
therefore put strong emphasis on restructuring DOL, provincial land offices and, in selected areas,
district land offices, including staffing and human resources development both at central and provincial
level, upgrading land offices functions, and further developing partnerships with communities through
redesigned and expanded CRS activities renamed Community Education and Services (CES). To ensure
that the improvements introduced are sustainable, all project activities will be implemented through the
normal structure of DOL and provincial and district land offices. In addition, strong emphasis will be put
on encouraging community participation in the project, integrating gender issues and considering the
impact on ethnic communities.

Phased implementation

Although the number of land parcels in Lao PDR i s not known, an estimate of about 1.6 million was
determined during the design of the LTP. In preparing the first project, it was anticipated that it would
take 25 years to complete the task and a decision was subsequently made to phase project activities, with
the first phase placing significant emphasis on building the institutional capacity to enable the
Government of Lao PDR to complete the registration of all rights in land over a 25-year program.
Weaknesses in government project implementation capacity, identified during the first project, do not
allow to consider the immediate expansion of the project to new provinces. The expansion of the project
to new provinces would be reassessed during implementation based on demonstrated indicators of the


                                                   - 1 2 -

 government's capacity to support such an expansion. These indicators are described in more details in
 Annex 2.

Areas covered by the project (urban, peri-urban, lowland agricultural areas)

Within provinces already covered by the first project, the proposed project will focus on strengthening
the capacity and upgrading functions of land offices, and continue titling and registration in urban and
peri-urban areas. The project would also gradually move to cover lowland agricultural areas, when
sufficient clarification and development of the land policy framework allows it. Sequencing of activities
will be carefully planned so that systematic titling does not take place on land with unclear status until
after the status i s agreed with all stakeholders. The selection of areas to be covered will be based on a
forward-planning process to ensure that agreed criteria for area selection are met. Community mapping
before titling activities take place, through the CES activities, will further ensure that these criteria are
respected. It i s expected that the project will not issue individual titles in upland areas nor lowland rural
areas where ethnic groups live in indigenous ways; however, it i s not possible to completely rule out the
possibility that the project may encounter, in lowland agricultural or peri-urban areas, communities
including ethnic peoples living in indigenous ways. Should the case arise, community mapping and
further consultations with the community concerned will help determine whether and where individual
titling may or not be appropriate.

Working with other donors

The Australian government i s co-financing the LTP and has expressed an interest in co-financing the
second project. In order to ensure good coordination between the Bank and AusAID, it was agreed that
AusAID and Bank task teams would work very closely duringthe entire project processing cycle.

Inaddition, there are a number of recent and current projects relatedto landregstration inLao PDR. The
ADB is supporting a program in the financial sector. The EUand SIDA have supported the Land Use
Planning and Land Allocation program in rural and forest areas. Since 2002, Swedish assistance has
focused on projects for conservation and intensification in upland agriculture. GTZ i s active in two
regional rural development projects which have land management activities. The Memorandum of
Understanding between the German and Lao governments concerning technical cooperation drafted in
2002 allocated 500,000 Euro for support to land use planning. FINNIDA and JICA have been supporting
the NGD, respectively through an Urban Mapping Project and a Geographic Information System (GIS)
for the Mekong River Basin Project.

The strategy for the proposed project is to operate in cooperation and coordination with existing and
planned donor activities in the land sector to ensure complementarities. In particular, the possibility to
involve other donor agencies in supporting complementary activities such as NGO legal and advisory
services on the use of titles as collateral and credit development will be further explored.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown) :
Component 1:Development of the Land Policy and Regulatory Framework
(a) Development of government's capacity to formulate land policies;
(b) Landpolicy formulation and development of regulatory framework;
(c) Establishment of a coordination mechanismfor land information.



                                                     -13-

Component 2: Institutional Development
(a) Longterm institutional development of the D O L and Provincial LandOffices;
(b) TrainingandHumanResourcesDevelopment;
(c) Education in the areas of land administration, land management, and property valuation.

Component 3: Development of a Modem Land Registration System
(a) Strengtheningof land offices to achieve agreed service standards;
(b) Community Education and Services;
(c) Strengthening landvaluation to support landregistration;
(d) Support to the Department of State Assets Management (DSA).

Component 4: Accelerated Land Titling through Systematic Registration
(a) Community Education and Services;
(b) Systematic landtitling.

Component 5: Support to Project Management and Implementation
(a) Technical Assistance to support capacity building;
(b) Support to project management and implementation; and
(c) Monitoring andEvaluation.                                                            I  Bank-         Yo of
                                                                                         financing        Bank-
                                                                                           (US$M)       financing
  A. Development of LandPolicy andRegulatory                          3.13        13.1
  Framework
  B.Institutional development                                         2.13         8.9
  C. Development of a Modem LandRegistration System                   2.24         9.4
  D.AcceleratedLandTitling through Registration                       7.98        33.4         6.91
  E.Support to Project Management andImplementation 1/                8.44        35.3         1.27
                                            Total Project Costs     23.92       100.0         14.82        100.0
                                 Total FinancingRequired            23.92        100.0        14.82        100.0
 1/ About US$6.84 million proposed to be financed by bilateral grant funds

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will seek policy and institutionalreforms in two areas:

Policy Formulation and Oversight.

The LTP supported several key developments in the legal framework for land administration, including
the adoption of the new Land Law (1997) and several sub-decrees. However, as discussed above,
clarificationof the legal framework i s still needed in certain cases. Inaddition, substantial work i s needed
to develop the broader land policy framework, such as linhng the land administration system to land
management and the allocation of land. There has also been a lack of regular oversight o f the project by
policymakers. The government has now clearly given to the new DONLUPADthe responsibility for the
coordination of land-related policy. As part of project preparation, dialogue and inter-agency
consultations on appropriate institutional arrangements to facilitate the development of the land policy
framework were initiatedby DONLUPAD. On March 25,2003, the Prime Minister approved the creation



                                                    -14-

 of a NLPC, with representation of line agencies involved in land administration and management, to
 provide an effective oversight mechanism to resolve policy matters as they arise and to facilitate the
 development of a comprehensive land policy framework. The project will support the work and operation
 of the Committee and of its Secretariat, which will be inDONLUPAD.

 Institutional Strengthening

Under the first project, agreement was reached on the need to restructure D O L and land offices and
strengthen staff capacity, training, recruitment and staff retention, to allow it to effectively perform its
functions and implement the project. In addition, the lack of management expertise in the DOL has been
an issue for the implementation of the first project, in particular weaknesses with regard to planning,
budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).The implementation of the proposed project through
DOL'Sstructure will ensure that the benefits of further capacity building, training, and ingeneral, human
resources development, as well as further upgrading and development of land administration activities
and procedures accrue directly to D O L and its provincial and district offices, and that the improvements
introduced are therefore sustainable. The proposed project will support the implementation of the
restructuring plan for D O L and provincial and district land offices, which was approved by the Minister
of Finance on May 12, 2003. The regulations adopting the new structure of DOL, the functions and
responsibities of the various divisions, approval of the long term staffing requirements, and appointment
of senior management i s a condition for Credit effectiveness.

3. Benefitsand target population:
By securing land tenure rights, the project will help to promote social stability, contribute to poverty
reduction and stimulate economic growth. By improving the land administration system, the project will
stimulate the development of more efficient land markets, thereby facilitating the allocation of land to its
best use. Increased govemment revenues from property related fees and taxes will improve the
government's capacity to provide social and economic services through a broader revenue base. About
200,000 households in urban, peri-urban, and lowland agncultural areas will receive titles to land under
the systematic land titling program, bringingthe total number of households having benefited from land
titling since the beginning of the program to about 300,000 families. The beneficiaries of land titles
would enjoy the benefits associated with land titles, by way of increased tenure security, access to credit
and opportunities to increase investments and productivity. Many of the expected beneficiaries are the
poor and vulnerable who cannot afford to obtain land titles through the existing system. In addition, the
first project also demonstrated the positive impact of land titling on women's access to titles and
subsequent access to financial resources. The emphasis on information dissemination and community
participation will be strengthened in LTP IIto ensure, in particular, that women and other vulnerable
groups are fully aware of their rights, and of the benefits and risks associated with the use of land titles as
collateral. In view of the current weaknesses in the legal and policy framework for land management, the
project will not issue titles in areas under shifting cultivation, other upland rural areas, and where ethnic
communities live in indigenous ways, where an important share of the rural poor live. However, through
its landpolicy development component, the project will support the clarification of the policy framework
to allow, at a later stage of the development of the country's land titling program, to address these issues,
and to explore options to improve land administration and management inrural areas.




                                                    - 1 5 -

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
Project Coordination and Management. Overall project management and coordination of project
implementation by all executing agencies will be the responsibility of the D O L under MOF, through its
central and decentralized structures at the provincial and district levels (provincial and district land
offices, PLOs and DLOs). The Minister of Finance has given formal approval to a restructuring plan with
the objective of strengthening the agency's capacity for project implementation as well as ensuring its
long-term sustainability. Based on the experience gained under LTP, the implementation of this
institutional restructuring program will merge the Land Titling Project Office (LTPO), established for the
implementation of LTP, into the new institutional structure of DOL. The final institutionalrestructuring
plan (including detailed description of the new structure, functional responsibilities,job descriptions, and
staffing plans), as well as the regulations for its implementation, will be adopted by MOF as a condition
for credit effectiveness. The staff responsible for the management of the on-going project will be
re-assigned to the new Planning and FinanceDivision (PED) of DOL. Therefore, the Director General of
D O L will also be the Project Director, directly responsible for overall project implementation, thereby
ensuring effective support to all units inthe D O L national structure.

The PFD of DOL would be headed by the Deputy Director General, who will be also appointed Project
Manager. This unit, in direct contact with the Project Director, will be responsible, on a daily basis, for:
(i)planning of project activities, including work plans and budgets; (ii)accounting, financial
management and internal control systems; (iii)       coordination of project activities with provincial and
district offices, as well as other executing agencies; (iv) monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, including preparation of progress reports; and (v) acting as Secretariat for the Project
Steering Committee (PSC). The PFD will count on the staff re-assigned from the LTPO (already having
significant experience in project implementation), and additional support from the technical assistance
activities includedinthe project, either financed by IDA or by the AusAID.

Similarly, at the provincial level, the existing Provincial Facilitation Units will be transformed into the
Provincial Planning and Finance Sections (PFS) of the Provincial Land Offices (PLOs), with the
responsibilities, at the local level, for: (i)planning and coordination of activities with other executing
agencies; (ii)maintaining project accounts and verifying expenditures; and             (iii)participating in
monitoring and evaluation activities. These decentralized units will be strengthened through additional
staff, as well as training and technical assistance.

Project Steering Committee (PSC).At the national level, PSC will be established to oversee the overall
implementation of the project, review and approve annual work plans and budgets and provide guidance
to improve project effectiveness. The Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Finance and include
the Director General of DOL, the Director General of DONLUPAD, the Director General of the
Department of State Assets, the Director of NGD, the Director of the Polytechnic School and the
Director General o f the Women's Rights Department of the Lao Women's Union (LWU). The PFD of
DOL will serve as Secretariat for this Committee. Similarly, at the provincial level, provincial Project
Oversight Committees (POC, called interchangeably Provincial or Project Oversight Committees), will
be established to oversee the implementation of the project in each project province. These POCs will be
chaired by the Vice Governor and include representatives from the relevant provincial agencies,
reflecting the composition of the central PSC. The provincial PFS will serve as Secretariat for the POC in
each project province.

Project Implementation. The newly-created DONLUPAD, in the Office of the Prime Minister, will be
responsible for the implementation of Component Iof the project and would play a central role in the
development of land policy and the legal framework, as well as coordination of land information. In


                                                     - 16-

 addition to its responsibilities for project coordination and management, DOL will be directly
 responsible for implementation of Components 11,ID,IV,and V. Several agencies will be participating in
 the implementation of important subcomponents or activities included in the project under the
 coordination of DOL. The Polytechnic School, under the Ministry of Education, will implement the
 subcomponent on the development of the High Diploma education program in land administration
 (Subcomponent II.3), as well as contribute to important aspects of the project training program. The
 LWU will assist in planning and implementation of the CES activities (Subcomponents III.2 and IV.1)
 and will continue to play a key role in supporting the information dissemination and community
 participation program under the project. The National Geographic Department (NGD), under the Prime
 Minister Office, will implement the subcomponent dealing with the provision of control points and base
 maps to support systematic adjudication and titling (Subcomponent IV.2). Finally, the Department of
 State Assets Management (DSA) will support the implementation of the subcomponent on state land
 registration. In order to ensure that responsibilities and obligations of each partner for project
implementation are clear and agreed upon, a Memorandum of Understanding ( M o w will be signed
between the D O L and each of the agencies and institutions involved in project implementation. Signature
 of the MoUs between DOL and, respectively, DONLUPAD, NGD, LWU, and the Polytechnic School is
a condition for credit effectiveness.

FinancialManagementand Disbursement

Arrangements of accounting system and audit. The PFD to be created under the new structure of the
DOL will be responsible for overseeing overall financial management functions for the project. The PFD
will ensure flow of funds to all components, supervise the financial management of the central and
provincial units, and be responsible for preparing and consolidating financial reports and reporting to the
government and the Association. The financial reports of the project will at least consist of the annual
financial statements and the quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs). Project records and accounts
will be maintained centrally by the PFD. The accounting system will be computerized and processed by
an accounting software with specifications acceptable to the Association. Supporting documentation will
be made available at PFD for subsequent audit by IDA and independent auditors. The selected external
auditor has to be acceptable to the Association, and will audit the project financial statements on an
annual basis according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA and following internationally acceptable
auditing standards.

Fund flow Arrangements. The funding sources for the project will come from IDA, AusAID and
government counterpart funds. A US dollars Special Account will be opened at the Central Bank of Lao
PDR to receive the project funds from IDA. it will be used exclusively to cover the eligible portion of
project expenditures as stated inthe DCA. The Special Account will be operated by MOF.

Under the project, DOL will maintain separate project accounts covering all financial transactions for
project activities. Initial advances pre-financed by GOL to the existing project sub-accounts under LTP
will continue to be used by the associated institutions, NGD and LWU,and all 9 project provinces, i.e.,
Vientiane Municipality, and the provinces of Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Xayabouly, Borikhamxay,
Khammuane, Savannakhet, Saravane, and Champassack. Two additional sub-accounts with initial
deposits pre-financed by GOL will also be opened for DONLUPAD and the Polytechnic School. To
ensure adequate financial level of autonomy to DONLUPAD,it was agreed that DONLUPADwill have a
higher level of initial deposit advanced to its sub-account by GOL, equivalent to at least 90-days of
implementation. The sub-accounts are denominated in local currency (KIP) and will be kept at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The proposed fund flow arrangements are presented in the full
financial management assessmentannex (Annex 6(B)).



                                                   -17-

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection:
Expanding project coverage to new provinces. Under political pressure and strong demand for the
project from the provincial governors, the government expressed interest in expanding the project to
cover all 17 provinces (and Vientiane Prefecture). Because of the limited capacity of the D O L to support
all the provinces at once, the project will consolidate land titling and registration activities in the
provinces covered by the LTP (now 8 provinces and Vientiane Prefecture). Expansion to other provinces
would only be considered once the government completes the needed institutional reform of the
Department of Lands and demonstrates that it has the capacity and budget to support systematic
registration in a larger number of provinces. Criteria to be met before considering the expansion of the
project to other provinces have been agreedupon during project appraisal, and are described in Annex 2.

Financingthe project through a learning and innovation loan (LIL)or an adjustable program loan
(APL). The project will be the second phaseof a long-termprogram estimated to last up to 25 years. The
achievements of the first phase (the six-year Land Tiling Project financed through a specific investment
credit) already go beyond the scope of a learning and innovation loan or the first phase of an APL. In
addition, under the first project, technical assistance was funded by the Australian government (AusAID)
through parallel financing. The duration and procedures of the specific investment credit have proven
adapted to allow coordination with AusAID's own processing procedures and schedule, and coordination
between IDA and AusAID processes has been gradually improved. The proposed project would be
implemented under similar arrangements with AusAID. At this stage of the program, and in view of the
level of activities reached under the first project, a specific investment credit i s the appropriate lending
instrument to support the project.

Including a land allocation component under the project. The government is currently implementing
an agriculture and forest land allocation program by distributing forest and agriculture land to eligible
beneficiaries. The program i s under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agnculture and Forestry and its
provincial divisions. Supporting these activities under the proposed project project was rejected for the
following reasons: (i) titling i s focusing on recognizing existing rights to land and therefore, land
                        land
allocation does not fit with this criteria; and (ii)  land allocation i s implemented through government
agencies other than the Department of Lands (the project implementing agency), and this makes
coordination difficult. Under its Land Policy and Regulatory Framework Development component
(Component l), project will study modalities for upgrading the Temporary Land Use Certificates
                  the
(TLUCs) issued under the land allocation program to full land titles. Conversion of TLUCs to full land
titles will only be considered once these modalities has been developed and adopted by the government.

Supporting state land leasing. The project will only provide very limited support to the DSA. This
support will be limited to strengthening DSA record management processes, including measures to
ensure that these processes are compatible with similar processes used for land registration in land
offices, and assisting the establishment of a system to register State land leases in the Provincial Land
Offices. This will enable the government to keep all land use certificates and land leases under the same
office. While more comprehensive strengthening of State land lease management i s an area of potential
economic benefit, it i s also an area in which major steps in policy and legislation are required before
further support can be considered.




                                                    - 1 8 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bankand/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                  Latest SI Iervision
               Sector Issue                            Project
                                                                             (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                                    (PSR)    atings

                                                                            Implementation     Development
 Bank-financed                                                               Progress (IP)    Objective(DO)

 LandManagement, Titling and              Laos Land Titling Project                S                S
 Administration
 LandManagement, Titling and              Thailand LandTitling Project             S                S
 Administration                           I,andIU
                                            II
 Land Management, Titling and             IndonesiaLandTitling Project             S                S
 Administration
 Land Management, Titling and             Cambodia LandTitling Project             S                S
 Administration
 Forest Management                        Sustainable Forestry
 Forest Management                        District UplandDevelopment               S                S
                                          Project
 Judicial Reform
 Financial Sector Reform
 Other developmentagencies
                                                                           Highly Unsatisf:

3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design:

InFebruary 2002, an independent review mission was sent to Laos to review the performance of LTP and
identify lessons to be incorporated into the design of LTP II.The main findings are summarized below.

Project Achievements. While the project was successful in the development of the legal and regulatory
framework, it was less successful inbuildingthe capacity of DOL. Inaddition, the number of titles issued
under the project i s far less than what was anticipated duringappraisal. This i s due to lack of counterpart
funds from 1997 to 1999; weak capacity of the Project Support Unit; and the unavailability of technical
staff to join the adjudication teams, as well as bottlenecks in technical procedures. Performance of the
project has significantly improved recently (achieving the project target inPY5), as some of the technical
constraints identified are gradually being addressed; the number of titles issued in PY5 has exceeded the
total number of titles issued from year 1to 4.

Government Capacity. In general, GOLs capacity to implement projects i s weak. Project
implementation requires a high level of expertise in policy development, community development,
procurement and financial management and a large number of staff in surveying, mapping and
adjudication. Planning i s also an area were capacity has proven to be weak, including for the
development of forward-planning processes for land registration. The capacity of staff with regard to the
above i s very low and it took much longer than initially envisaged to train new staff. Also, government
salaries have depreciated rapidly during the period 1997-1999, resulting in government jobs becoming
less attractive to qualified candidates. Furthermore, D O L needs to hire a large number of new staff to
undertake its recently expanded mandate, but a government freeze on hiringof civil servants has limited



                                                    -19-

DOL'S ability to recruit the essential staff. The proposed project will support the implementation of the
agreed restructuring plan for the D O L and provincial and district land offices, including training and
HRD,staffing plan, and the development of stronger planning and M&Eprocesses. Strong emphasis is
put on buildingthe Government's capacity to implement the project and thereafter sustain the project's
achievements in the longer term.

Policy FormulationProject Oversight. Lack of clarity inpolicy formulation has negatively affected the
implementation of the LTP.Little progress was made indeveloping landpolicy in the wider context such
as linking the land administration system to land management and the allocation of land. There has also
been a lack of regular oversight of the project by policymakers. Experience from other projects shows
that projects focused narrowly on titling before a national consensus on land policy has been reached
rarely succeed in meeting their objectives. A better approach i s to include land titling as part of a
comprehensive policy and regulatory framework for land administration and management. The
coordination of land-related policy i s now the responsibility of the new DONLUPAD. As part of project
preparation, dialogue and inter-agency consultations on appropriate institutional arrangements to
facilitate the development of the land policy framework were initiatedby DONLUPAD. The creation of a
National Land Policy Committee (NLPC), with               representation of line agencies involved in land
administration and management to provide an effective oversight mechanism to resole policy matters as
they arise and to facilitate the development of a comprehensive land policy framework, has been
approved by the Prime Minister on March 25,2003.

Emphasizing stakeholders participation. Experience shows that active participation of all stakeholders
i s critical to the success of land titling and registration programs. There have been achievements in the
CRS and Gender and Development (GAD) activities under the LTP, but there i s room for improvement.
As part of project preparation, the effectiveness of communication tools with the various groups and how
to best obtain their active involvement and participation in the project have been assessed, and the
recommendations have been included in the design of information dissemination and community
participation activities, renamed CES. Specific recommendations include broader coverage of CES
activities, institutionalizing CES in DOL, clarifying roles of central and provincial level CES staff,
introducing community mapping activities, strengthening participatory approaches, training and raising
awareness of CES staff about gender and ethnic group issues, improving the diversity of CES staff, and
improved communication materials, including for non-Lao speakers. Ways to allow communities to in
turn guide the course and contents of the project and on an ongoing basis contribute to the development
of landtenure policy and strategies are also includedin the project design. The restructuringplan of D O L
will include ways of ensuring that qualified and skdled staff are attracted and retained for CES activities,
and that additional (and better targeted) CES materials are developed in a professional manner, with
appropriate M&E, and distributed widely within the project areas. Activities to improve the effectiveness
of the LWU in supporting the CES, such as training and capacity building, improved mechanisms for
collaboration with LWU, and improved approach to gender issues in CES, have been included under the
proposed project.

Lessons from other projects. Strong government commitment at the highest level i s required to build
consensus on sensitive issues of land rights and to provide the conditions for efficient coordination of
land-related agencies. The creation of the DONLUPAD is a clear indication of the government's
commitment to improving the coordination of land agencies and the development of the land policy
framework. The decision to restructure the D O L also demonstrates the government's commitment to
reach the objectives of the project.




                                                     - 20 -

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Lao PDR has showed its commitment to the proposed project in several ways. The
government requested IDA and AusAID to finance the proposed project and requested IDA to apply for a
PHRD grant to support project preparation. A government team worked very closely with the consultants
who undertook a review of the first phase and assisted the government in preparing project objectives
and tentative components. The government held a high level workshop at the vice minister level
(including all concerned government agencies and vice governors of key provinces) to review and
endorse the proposed project objectives and components. The Minister of Finance has approved in
principle the restructuring plan for the Department of Lands and provincial and district land offices, as a
basis for the longer term development of the land administration system, which provides a clear signal of
the government's commitment to the project objectives and design. Formal approval by the Minister of
Finance of the new structure of D O L and provincial and district land offices i s a condition for
negotiation. As indicated above, the creation of the DONLUPAD i s another indicator of ownership and
commitment of the government to move forward the land policy agenda. More recently, the creation, in
March 2003, of the NLPC provided another confirmation of the government's commitment to the
project's objectives. There have also been serious discussions within the government to about further
reformof land agencies, although a final decision has not been taken.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

IDA support to the proposed project will consolidate the achievements of the first phase by focusing on
institutional strengthening of the land agencies (DOL, NGD, and DONLUE'AD)            to ensure the land
administration system i s sustainable once donor support ends. The co-financing arrangements between
IDA and AusAID will build on the experience of the first phase, will reduce the management burden on
the government and facilitate the provision of technical assistance (TA) essential to ensure successful
implementation of the project. Finally, IDA and AusAID have developed extensive experience working
together in supporting land titling/administration projects in the East Asia region and in integrating
policy, institutional and technical aspects to improve land tenure security, as well as to promote the
development of landmarkets.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

0
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
    Cost benefit       NE'V=US$19 million: ERR= 21 % (see Annex 4)
0   Cost effectiveness
0   Other (specify)
A cost benefit analysis was carried out for the proposed project usingexisting evidence from studies and
field surveys conducted under the LTPto derive assumptions on the economic impact of the project. The
cost benefit analysis includes the total project costs. Benefits were estimated for urban areas, where it
was assumed that the increase in land price would provide a good proxy to estimate the benefits of the
project; conservative asumptions were used as regards the increase in land prices (15% over five years),
compared to increases observed in other countries in the region. Benefits in peri-urban areas, where 75%
of the land i s used for rice cultivation (paddy fields), and in lowland agricultural areas, where
information on prices i s laclung, were not included to estimate total project benefits. The estimated
economic rate of return and net present value are therefore considered to represent lower bounds of the
real ERR and NPV. Based on these assumptions, which are described in detail in Annex 4, the overall
economic rate of return of the project over a 35 year period i s estimated to be 21%, with a net present
value of US$19 million. Sensitivity analyses have been conducted and the results show that, with



                                                  -21  -

 significant changes of either project costs or benefits (increase or decreaseby 20%), the proposed project
 still remains economically sound. A socioeconomic impact study, to be carried out as part of the LTP,
 will provide data that will allow to review and consolidate the findings of the economic analysis
conducted as part of the preparation of the LTP II.        The basic methodology i s to collect land price
information plus other control variables, such as household characteristics and plot characteristics, in
both LTP project area and control area. An empirical analysis usingeconometric techniques can then can
be carried out. B y usingthis method, Economic Rate of Return (ERR) can be calculated but not the Net
Present Value (NPV). The information generated by the proposed beneficiary survey would be used as a
basis to undertake an ex-post cost benefit analysis for the LTP and an ex-ante cost benefit analysis for the
LTP II.The quantifiable benefits will mainly be in terms of land price since the focus of the LTP on
urban and peri-urban areas.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$4.4 million; FRR = 14 % (see Annex 4)
The objective of the financial analysis is to assess whether the net financial benefits expected from the
project are attractive enough for the different stakeholders. Inthe proposed LTPII,there are two main
categories of stakeholders: the landholders and the Government.

Financial benefits and costsfor landholders:

As in most cases, there are two major incentives for landholders to obtain land titles through the
proposed project: i)to improve land ownership security and ii)to access a cheaper and larger amount of
credit from formal financial institutions by using land titles as collateral. As a result of improved land
tenure security and improved access to formal credit, the landholders will increase their investment in
land and hence increase their productivity and income. The decision by a landholder to participate in the
LTP 11would depend on whether the expected financial returns are higher than the payment for a land
title. The majority of land titles will be obtained through systematic adjudication. To ensure a high
participation of landholders on a voluntary basis, the cost of land titling has been kept at a level
significantly lower than the cost of producing a title. The affordability of the poorest landholders i s one
major criteria for setting an appropriate registration fee. The difference between the actual titling cost
and the fee charged to landholders is subsidized by the Government, and the Government will recover the
subsidy by charging registration fee on subsequent land transactions. This arrangement i s similar to the
one used under the LTP, and has also worked well in other countries. A careful study of the fee structure
and levels of land-related taxes was conducted under the first project, to finda balance point between the
need to attract people to register land and subsequent transactions and the need for cost recovery and
sufficient government revenue.

Financial benefits and costsfor the Government:

For the government, the financial benefits come from increased revenue from sources such as initial
registration fee, subsequent transaction registration fee, increase in land taxes, etc. The financial costs to
the Government are the project cost and the Government's future management costs associated with each
title issued by the proposedproject.

The major assumptions are described in Annex 4. As for the economic analysis, the estimated FRR and
financial NPV are considered to be represent lower bound figures.They are based on estimated project
costs and estimated benefits of the LTP. The estimated financial rate of return of the proposed project i s
14%, with a net present value of US$4.4 million. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out to test the
robustness of these results to changes in turnover rate, landtransaction value, and number of titles issued.


                                                    - 22 -

 The sensitivity analyses shows that changes in the total number of titles issued and in transaction value
 (increase or decrease by 20%) will have a significant impact on the project's financial results.


 FiscalImpact:
 Inthe short term, the fiscal impact of the proposed project will beneutralgiven the low percentage of the
 total project costs to be financed by the Government. Inthe long-run, it i s expected that the fiscal impact
 of the proposed project will be very positive, as shown by the high financial rate of return. The cost
 recovery arrangements (fee structure) will strengthen the demand for services provided by the project,
 and the affordability for the poorest has been taken into account. Therefore, the cost recovery
 arrangements of the proposed project will have a positive impact on distribution of project benefits and
 will promote the efficient use of the outputs (titles) from the project.

 3. Technical:
 The technology to be applied in LTP 11is based on the same technology utilized in the LTP, that in turn
 was based on other titling projects in the region. Processeshave been refined to better suit circumstances
inLaoPDR.

Refinements in LTP IIinclude a greater reliance in systematic adjudication on Global Positiong System
 (GPS) technology and less on orthophotos and the use of total stations. In addition, software applications
including the VIS, First Registration application and the scanning of key land records will be introduced
in further land offices following trials in the Vientiane Municipality Land Office (the largest land office
inthe country).

As was the case in the first project, the selection of technology was based on strilung a balance between
providing appropriate levels of accuracy and minimum cost, all within the constraints of available
slull-levels inLao PDR and the legalrequirements for boundary surveys.

4. Institutional:
Sustainability of the land administration system in Lao PDR will depend, among several factors, on the
ability of D O L and their provincial offices to undertake institutional and human resources reforms to
adopt to their new expanded mandate in the coming years. It i s unlikely that the land administration
system will be sustainable unless the government takes serious steps to strengthen DOL and their offices.
The development of a new structure and restructuring plan of D O L have been supported as part of project
preparation. The approval of the new structure and of the restructuring plan of the D O L and provincial
and district land offices by the Minister of Finance has been introduced as a condition of negotiation of
the proposed credit for this project. In addition, the proposed project will be implemented in a phased
manner, and expansion of project activities to new provinces will be subject to the full implementation of
the proposed institutional changes and demonstrated government capacity to support further development
of project activities. Specific criteria for project expansion to new provinces have been agreed upon
duringproject appraisal. Improvedcoordination among agencies (especially DOL'Scentral office, with its
provincial and district land offices, and DONLUPAD) i s a priority, and the ongoing upgrading of human
resource capabilities in these lead agencies will be supported under the project. In the medium-term, the
land administration and management education program supported under the project will supply the
human resources needed to runthe landregistration system.
4.1 Executing agencies:
In addition to project coordination, the DOL, under the MOF, is responsible for the implementation of
Components 2 through 5. Other agencies such as the NGD under the Prime Minister Office, the LWU,
and Polytechnic School under the Mmistry of Education, will be supporting DOL in carrying out specific


                                                     - 23 -

activities under DOL'S coordination. The DONLUPAD, under the Prime Minister Office, will be
responsible for the implementation of Component 1.
4.2 Project management:
Under the LTP, project implementation has been done through the Project Support Unit(PSU), a parallel
structure under the DOL. Other divisions inD O L were not involved inproject implementation. Under the
proposed project, the existing PSU structure will be mainstreamed in DOL's new structure to enable the
project to directly support the capacity of DOL to fulfill its new mandate. The PFD of D O L will be
responsible for project coordination, financial management, and M&E, with the actual implementation
undertaken through the various divisions of D O L and their provincial land offices departments. The
structure and mandate of the various divisions are being developed as part of the development of DOL's
restructuring plan.

Experience from the first project suggestedthat the PSUwas very weak and required strong support from
the project administration contractor. The AusAID-financed technical assistance has been providing
technical and policy support, in addition to the IDA-financed Project Administrator who has provided
management support to the PSU for the first two years of the LTP. Because of the frequent turnover of
PSU staff, the PSU has not been able to manage the project efficiently following the departure of the
Project Administrator. Buildingon this experience, adequate support and technical assistance i s proposed
under the project to enable DOL to be able to manage project implementation effectively.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement system in Lao PDR is based primarily on the Decree no. 95/CM dated December 5,
1995 and the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) issued by the MOF which i s the Government's
entity for overall control and supervision of public procurement. The IRR has a waiver which mandates
the application of International Finance Institution (IFI)procurement rules for IFI-financed procurement.
In general, the procurement system is consistent with IDA'Sguidelines with some exceptions i.e. two
envelope system, negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder to reduce the price when bids exceed the
cost estimate, rejection of bids if there are no suitable bids (less than three bidders) and giving domestic
preference for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Because of the waiver noted, specific
requirements for public procurement of goods, works and consulting services have been added to the
DCA.

The D O L in MOF, has been implementing the first phase of the Land Titling Project with financial
assistance from IDA and technical assistance from AusAID since 1997. Most of the procurement has
been centrally performed by the Procurement Unit of the Project Support Unit in DOL with the
assistance of a Procurement Advisor financed by IDA for the first two years o f LTP. Although the PSUis
now familiar with IDA procurement procedures, long delays in procurement activities under the current
project indicate that the PSU does not yet have sufficient experienced staff to handle procurement
satisfactorily. Therefore, to ensure efficient project implementation and mitigate the risks from weak
procurement capacity, a regional Project Implementation Advisor, with solid knowledge and proven
international procurement experience, will be hired by D O L using IDA funds to provide support and
hands-on training. Hiring of the Project Implementation Advisor i s a condition for Credit effectiveness.
Inaddition, a senior staff intensive procurementtraining will beimplementedbyDOL.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) has been prepared by IDA and the report was
shared with the government in mid 2002. The overall fiduciary risk in Lao PDR i s considered to be high.
Despite the fact that there are some built-in controls within the government's financial management
system, there i s insufficient transparency related to public finances and the general attitude towards fiscal


                                                     - 24 -

discipline i s not strong. The budget process i s not yet transparent and public access to government
financial information is limited. These weaknesses are compounded by an inadequate awareness of
modem practices of internal control in the public sector. While an elaborate control system i s in place,
involving many pre-approval and checking processes, it needs to be made more effective. The
govemment's decentralization initiative needs to be supported with a sufficiently robust institutional
framework that clearly defines the new responsibilities at lower levels. Technical capacity of staff at
these levels needs to be strengthened. The oversight functions and the National Auditor Office need
improvement. The accounting and auditing profession and institutions remain undeveloped. To address
these deficiencies, the government has agreed to implement several recommendations of the Public
Expenditure Review (PER) and CFAA. The Financial Management Capacity Buildingproject, as well as
the government initiative supported by ADB are expected to bring the fiduciary risk to an acceptable
level.

Fiduciary risks relating to financial management and the internal control framework were identified and
would be mitigated through the proposed system. The major risks include low salary and compensation
levels of civil servants, which make it difficult to attract and retain well qualified and motivated staff.
The project financial management capacity at provincial level i s weak and counterpart fund arrangements
are laclung particularly at provincial level. The financial management system the externally funded
projects remains weak and need substantial improvement. A number of key issues and weaknesses
regarding IDA funded projects were identified as follows i)inconsistent and inadequate financial
management standards, procedures and softwares in project implementation units; ii)delays to project
implementation resulting from management of Special Accounts by MOF; iii)delayed audit and lack of
consistent extemal audit standards and procedures; iv) project implementation units' accounting
departments that have been poorly staffed and equipped at start-up; v) poor internal control procedures
and absence of internal audit in line agencies; and vi) lack of financial management capacity at provincial
and district levels. These risks are considered as manageable due to the risk-mitigation measures agreed
to be taken under the project.

During project pre-appraisal in February 2003 and appraisal in May 2003, the proposed financial
management and disbursement arrangements, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing and
fund flow for the project were reviewed by IDA. The mission also assessed the existing financial
management capacity of the LTP (CR.2832-LA) to ensure its capacity and system will be adequate and
fit with the proposedproject. The review concluded that the project would meet minimumIDA financial
management requirements subject to implementation and completion of the following actions before the
start of the project: (i)completion of the design format of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
acceptable to IDA before negotiation; (ii) of a short-term expert to assist in developing a
                                               hiring
computerized accounting system and revisingthe financial and administration manual; (iii)   installation of
equipment and accounting software to be ready for testing; (iv) completion of the development of the
accounting system with chart of account capable to capture project expenditures by provinces,
components, disbursement and procurement category, and funding sources; (v) adoption of a project
financial management manual acceptable to IDA; (vi) completion of staffing arrangements within the
PFD of DOL with an adequate number and mix of slulled and experienced staff who understand the
project and relevant accounting concepts and government regulations; and (vii) hiring of an external
auditor under qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Actions (ii)to (vi) should be
completed before Credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.




                                                   - 2 5 -

An independent environmental consultant was hiredby the DOL duringproject preparation to assess any
environmental issues encountered under the LTP, to evaluate the potential environmental impact of the
project and to identify, where necessary, mitigation measures for any potentially negative environmental
impact. A summary of the environmental analysis i s presented inAnnex 14. Duringthe preparation of the
environmental analysis, the consultant undertook consultations with the various stakeholders in the
country. The environmental analysis was sent to the World Bank Info Shop and to the World Banks
Vientiane office for disclosure on March 18, 2003. The document i s also available through DOL in
Vientiane and has been sent to Provincial Land Offices in project provinces.

The project is classified as safeguards category B/S2 because it is not expected to have significant
adverse environmental or social impacts. Other than rehabilitation or construction of small land offices,
the project will not support any major civil works. Furthermore, the project will not support land
conversion, resource extraction, industrial production or any other activity which could damage the
environment. The project will not provide titles in upland areas or areas covered by forest, protected
areas or other sensitive natural habitats. The titling activities will be limited to land areas which have
already undergone significant utilization such as urban and peri-urban areas, and lowland agricultural
areas adjacent to urban villages.

Indeed, the overall environmental assessment shows that, land titling will most likely facilitate a number
of land management changes that have potentially high positive environmental impact. Positive impacts
of the project on the environment include: the preparation of maps and identification of land ownership
which are often used for environmental management, improvement in land tenure security which would
provide incentives for using land in a sustainable manner, clarification of tenure rights in cultural
heritage sites to prevent encroachment on these sites and, if accompanied by adequate land use planning,
more efficient provision of urban and peri-urban infrastructure, enforcement of environmental
regulations, better drainage and protection of environmentally sensitive sites.

Nevertheless, the environmental assessment indicates that certain risks may be present if these
precautions are not met. For example, in the absenceof efficient landuse planning and enforcement, land
titling may be a contributing factor to uncontrolled urban development which could lower the
government's ability to enforce environmental regulations.

Regarding the project's small-scale civil works, measures will be followed to ensure that adverse
environmental impacts do not arise. First, to the extent possible all buildings will be located on existing
government lands that have already been developed. Second, all proposed civil works will be screened
using a simple checklist of potential impacts during the design stage. Based on the screening review, a
recommendation will be made as to whether a limited environmental assessment (IEE) or Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) will be required. Inthe unlikely event that an IEEor EMPi s needed, it will be
completed prior to issuance of construction bid documents. For all sub-projects requiring IEE or EMP,
IDA will review these documents prior to construction. Inmost cases however, adverse impacts will be
negligible. Finally, all bid documents for all civil works will include standard clauses to ensure that
appropriate measures for waste disposal, sedimentation, dust and noise control are included in
construction contracts. Contractors will be obligated to comply with the agreed measures.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate?


The project has been designed to promote environmental management and mitigate any potentially
negative impact arising from project activities. To minimize negative impact on the environment, land
titling would be limited to urban, peri-urban areas and lowland agricultural areas surrounding urban


                                                    - 26 -

 villages. N o land title will be issued in forest, reserved or other environmentally sensitive areas. The
 project will support DONLUPAD in developing clear guidelines for the treatment of environmentally
 sensitive areas by the land administration system, and a clear policy on which certificate would be used
 for these areas. The project will also support DONLUPAD in reviewing land use planning procedures
 and enforcement guidelines to ensure that the development and implementation of these guidelines are
coordinated with land titling activities. The environmental screening and review and oversight of
construction contracts will be the responsibility of DOL.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                      Date of receipt of final draft: January 2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation took place with various government departments, donors active in the sector and several
NGOs during the preparation of the environmental assessment. At present, other donors involved in land
and land-relatedissues include SIDA, AusAID and GTZ. The LWUhas also been consulted.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A baseline survey to measure the socioeconomic andenvironmental impact is beingundertaken under the
LTP. A follow-up survey will be undertaken in year 4 of the proposed project with the objective to
measure the socioeconomic and environmental impact of the project. Environmental indicators are
included in the baseline survey and the follow-up survey. Project supervision teams will periodically
monitor the use and effectiveness of environmental screning mechanisms used for civil works and
construction supervisors will ensure that waste, dust and noise management controls are followed during
civil works construction.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Duringproject preparation, a social assessment was carried out that covered areas served by the first
project, as well as unserved areas. In general, the social assessment found that the first project had had
satisfactory outcomes. Most people surveyed felt that they had benefited in terms of greater security and
the power to transfer rights of ownership. They reported a decrease in the number of land disputes, and
general satisfaction with the way the project had been run. The economic benefits and associated
improvements in well-being were less clear. Although mortgage and land sales values have been
increasing, it i s difficult to determine what proportion can be attributed to land titling rather than other
general improvements in infrastructure and the rise inbusiness activity.

Other activities carried out during the LTP or the preparation of the second project that have provided
information for this social analysis include the Land Tenure and Forest Boundaries Study, and results
from the CRYGAD review workshop which took place in March 2003. The following are the social
issues raisedinthe assessmentsthat have been conducted:




                                                       - 27 -

 (a) Vulnerability of the poor to the project's risks. Results from the Social Assessment indicate that the
benefits of the project may accrue more to the better-off land owners, while the risks may be greater for
 the poor. One of the benefits i s that land titles can be used as collateral for loans giving title holders
 greater access to credit. However, formal institutions are more likely to provide loans to those with a
regular income and/or thriving business ventures. Also, the indications are that the better-off are
borrowing money to start or expand their business enterprises. For the poor there are two areas of risk.
The first is that even with the land titles the formal institutions may be reluctant to provide them with
loans, forcing them to turn to the informal money lenders where interest rates are much higher. In
addition, it may be the case that the poor are more vulnerable to the impact of economic shocks caused
by illhealth, failed crops, or other family emergency. In these circumstances they may seek loans for
non-income generating purposes that place them in a situation where they are unable to repay the loans
and may eventually be forced to sell their land. It was certainly the case from the social assessmentthat
almost all of those selling land that they had received titles for, were poor -and many were poor farmers.
Special attention will be placed on providing services through the improved CES, that will mitigate the
possible risks for the poor, and enhancethe benefits.

(b) Land disputes. The indications are that the procedures used inthe project have forced early and open
discussion of potential land disputes and hence more frequent resolution of these issues. However, there
are two areas of potential disputes that have been flagged. The first i s where there has been a tendency
for some of those who have received titles to fence in their land. In some cases, this has been to the
detriment of their inner neighbors who may loose their access across the land. This risk can be mitigated
by increasing the intensity of community participation at an early stage and using community mapping
techniques to raise awareness of potentialproblems and findsolutions early on. However, the project will
continue to provide title the complete block of land owned. If the community wishes to discuss voluntary
contributions of land for community purposes such as access or drainage, these discussions should take
place after the title has been issued for the complete plot and therefore outside of the project. The second
potential dispute risk is that as the value of land and titles increases, inheritance disputes may increase in
number or intensity. B y increasing the information given out on inheritance rights, and providing legal
advisory services, the CES can help to reduce the risk of dispute and find solutions.

(c) Transparency and accountability. The need to improve accountability and transparency has been
raisedat several levels. At the community level, there have beenreports of communities, who are not told
official fees, being charged some additional expenses not previously agreed. Also there i s often
confusion over their rights and entitlements. At the district and provincial level, there has been a lack of
clarity between the different stakeholders, especially between the LWUand the project teams, about their
roles, and the budgets attached to the different activities. This also extends to the provincial and central
levels where it i s important to clarify expectations in a more transparent way, and to encourage greater
accountability for delivering the budgets, services, or resources, that havebeen promised.

(d) Land previously owned by Lao whofled. Land previously owned by people who fled Lao PDR is
officially titled as State land. With regard to the rights of those that fled, many have now changed their
nationality, and as land can only be titled to Lao nationals, they no longer have claim to the land. People
livingon or usingthe land prior to the Land Titling Project, and who may or may not be relatives of those
that fled, are granted long term leases. This arrangement gives those living or using the land right to
continue to do so, while not permanently removing the possibility of previous owners making a claim in
the future should this ever be entertained by the State.

(e) Community land titles. Land on which temples or other community assets are built, i s titled as State
land. There i s no current category of community land although under the policy component of the LTP


                                                     - 28 -

II.Thepossibilityofintroducingsuchacategorywillbeexplored.Communitylandcategorymayalso
be appropriate for areas where ethnic groups traditionally manage land on a communal basis and wish to
maintain communal rights to the land. It i s not possible to completely rule out the possibility that this
kindof communal land use will be found in the areas included in the project. In order to preserve these
rights,initial screening will identify if there are ethnic minorities usingland communally in each project
site, and these areas will be excluded from titling. In the event that a policy and law i s introduced for
granting community titles, and this law is acceptable to IDA, then it may be possible to pilot community
titlinginthose areas identifiedand previously excludedunder the project.

(f) Gender Mainstreaming. The LWU have played an important role in increasing significantly the
number of parcels of land titled to women and this work needs to continue. Both the legal and customary
environment are favorable for this. Legally, the constitution and national laws promote equality by
entitling a marriedwoman to one half of property acquiredduring marriage. Several cultural groups have
matrilineal traditions including female land inheritance, and it i s customary in many areas for parents to
leave their main land-holding to the child that stays at home to look after them in their old age - this i s
usually a daughter.

While issuingtitles in the name of women or joint names i s undoubtedly important, women have also
expressed through the social assessment survey that they were not given sufficient opportunity to
participate throughout the project process and to fully understand their rights with respect to land
ownership and inheritance. An improved approach would be one that took a much broader approach to
mainstreaming gender throughout the project. At the village level, this will mean adopting procedures
that are adapted to the needs of women - separate meetings, different methods of communicating
information, and timing activities to fit in with women's schedules. It will also mean reviewing all other
aspects of the project, such as the policy and capacity buildingcomponents to ensure gender sensitivity.
Details of how this can be done are included in the Social Annex.
(g) Working with Mass Organizations. Mass organizations, such as the Lao Women's Union, or the Lao
National Front for Development, offer opportunities to reach out to, and include groups of people that
might otherwise be excluded. Including representatives of these organizations in policy discussions and
consultations will also ensure that opportunities are provided for the voice of these marginalized groups
to be taken into consideration. However, working with these organizations requires carefully developed
procedures to ensure a balance between being effective service delivery mechanisms for the State, and
effective channels of voice-representing and responding to the real needs of their members.

(h) Ethnic group issues. A Land Tenure and Forest Study was undertaken duringthe first project and the
findings indicated significant issues that would need to be overcome before the project moved into these
areas. Therefore they will not be covered in LTP II.     B y restricting implementation to urban, peri-urban
areas, and lowland agricultural areas, it i s unlikely that there will be adverse impacts on ethnic groups
covered under the Bank's policy on indigenous peoples. Since there i s still the possibility that ethnic
groups may in some cases be affected by the project, a policy framework has been prepared which aims
to a) ensure the informed participation of ethnic groups in the project activities; and b) ensure that ethnic
groups are not adversely affected during the development process in accordance with the World Bank's
policy on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). In order to identify ethnic groups the CES teams will be trained
to assess the communities and identify if groups meeting the criteria are present.

In addition to the specific focus at community level, ethnic groups should be encouraged to apply for
positions on the project teams, and also for the courses at the Polytechnic School. Ethnic groups should
be represented in policy consultations, through the inclusion of the Lao Front for National Development
in these discussions.


                                                    - 29 -

(i) Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement. Some new offices or buildings may be constructed
under the project, although in most cases minor rehabilitation of existing buildings should be sufficient.
In the event that individuals are evicted from landbecause of the needto use such land for carrying out
civil works under the project, a resettlement policy framework has been prepared with the government.

(j) Right of Way. Where land has been occupied prior to the establishment of state-designated Right of
Way, the titles will be issued up to the boundaries of the existing land rights. If the land i s then required
later for road widening, ditches, or other service provision, the title holder will be eligible for
compensation from the State in accordance with the guidelines on involuntary resettlement.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?


The primary beneficiaries are landowners currently without a formal title to their land. The systematic
adjudication process proposed for the project i s one that i s based on a participatory approach whereby all
landowners in the area are involved in the process. Similar to other projects in the region, stakeholders
will be involved in the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the project as follows: during
preparation, stakeholders have been involved in the social assessment and in several consultation
workshops and seminars related to project design. During implementation, community groups will
participate in the CES, a key activity inthe project, which will be used to disseminate information, build
community relations, and encourage community participation and public awareness in general.
Furthermore, it i s proposed that the project develop and establish a mechanism to monitor project
implementation at local level, involving the participation of community members, local representatives,
Lao Women's Union, and senior citizens groups.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?


A major partner and participant in the project will be the LWU.Currently, it is proposed that the LWU
will be involved in several ways, and have a number of different roles in the project: i)as project
implementer and sewice provider, the LWUrepresentatives will work alongside the adjudicating teams
in the villages and have specific responsibility for ensuring that women understand their rights and
entitlements under the project, and with respect to the current Land laws of the country;               ii)as
representatives of women, they will be involved in discussions on future land policies, iii)as project
monitors, they will be encouraged to monitor the performance of other agencies involved, and the use of
the funds. B y concentrating all these roles in one organization several areas o f conflict of interest are
introducedthat may limit the effectiveness of the project and needto be carefully assessed.

A second group that will be involved will be the Lao Front for National Development who will be
consulted as the representatives of ethnic groups in the discussions on policy and approaches to ethnic
groups.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?


In the first project, the involvement of the LWU was considered to be sufficient in itself to ensure
community participation and gender sensitivity. However, without a formally recognized role, formal
procedures, and the resources to undertake the significant area of responsibility that was assigned to


                                                   - 30 -

them, they were limited in their ability to achieve the social development objectives, despite their huge
commitment and very considerable efforts to do so. The second project will formalize the responsibility
for the community participation, education, and services, within the structure of the project teams.
Consultants and contracted staff with clear Terms of Reference will be included. Procedures will be
carefully developed, staff will be trained and sensitized, and accountability mechanisms in place. The
Lao Women's Union will continue to play a significant role, but with their role as service provider on
behalf of the govemment reduced, they should be encouraged to work more on behalf of those they
represent in ensuring the services reach their constituents, lobbying on their behalf, and holding the
service providers accountable.

Key to buildingcapacity to address many of the social development objectives will be the introduction of
a community mapping activity as an entry point to workmg with communities in each village. The
activity, done jointly by men and women in the community, will identify those who are vulnerable to
risks (for example, poor families for whom selling their land would constitute disposal of the majority of
their assets, ethnic minority groups that will need to have special consideration, those who may be
blockedin without access if all their neighbors constructed fences, and female heads of household). The
CES detailed methodology i s being worked out and the adoption by the M O F of the CES Operations
Manual, which will detail the CES design and working arrangements, i s a condition for credit
effectiveness. In addition, project staff will be trained in implementation of CES activities, and also in
developing service approaches to assist those that have been specifically identified as vulnerable. Annex
11provides an outline of the CES strategy under the project.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?


The baseline survey for the first project was considerably delayed, and with some redesign can now be
used also as a baseline for the second project. The second project includes a socioeconomic survey in
the fourth year that will measure impacts of the project. Furthermore, the general monitoring an
evalutation system of the project, under the responsiblity of the PFD of DOL, will be strengthened,
including specific output, outcome, and impact indicators of social development.

Inaddition, the community mappingexercise offers the opportunity to collect basic data from the villages
as the project proceeds and some simple community monitoring approaches could be introduced that
would help to identify issues as the project proceeds.




                                                    -31 -

7. SafeguardPolicies:
        -




    PestManagement(OP 4.09)
    Cultural Property (OPN11.03)                                                    Yes 0 No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                                       Yes 0 NO
    Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                            Yes 0  NO
    Safety of Dams(OP4.37, BP4.37)                                               0Yes      NO
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)                       0  Yes    NO
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)"                            0Yes      NO


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

Involuntary Resettlement:
The new buildings proposed in the second project include new offices for DONLUPAD in Vientiane, a
new two story building and drawing laboratory at the Polytechnic School in Vientiane, and construction
or rehabilitation of existing offices in nine districts in five provinces. Two or three alternative locations
have been identified for the two new buildingsin Vientiane. Both buildingswill be on State land, within
the boundaries of the existing office/Polytechnic School land. Only one of the possible sites identified so
far has a family living on and using the land. Sites in the districts have not been identified, but are all
expected to similarly be on State land close to or within the boundaries of existing office lands.
Resettlement within the project will be limited and only a few families, if any, will be affected.

A National Policy and a Decree on Resettlement and Compensation have been drafted by the Science,
Technology and Environment Agency with technical assistance provided by the ADB. The policy has
been widely discussed, and has been submitted with the Decree to the Prime Minister's office. Approval
of both documents i s expected in May, and technical guidelines are also drafted to be adopted once
approval has been given. As the policy and decree have not yet been approved, and in order not to risk
any associated delays that would affect the project, a separate resettlement policy framework for the
project has been prepared with the Government for the project. The Resettlement Framework and
Guidelines are in line with those being proposed for adoption by the Government under their own
national policy.

Indigenous People:
The project has determined that it will not provide individual titles of land in areas inhabited by
indigenous minorities. Instead as mentioned above, relevant studies will be undertaken and appropriate
measures will be put inplace in order to facilitate future land titling to these groups.

The teams contracted to undertake community outreach and mapping in the project sites will conduct the
screening to determine the presence of people who would meet the criteria as indigenous minorities to be
covered by IDA'Spolicy, in the area. Consultations will take place with these groups to explain about the
project and to informthem that land titling of their areas will take place at a later date or during the next
project.


                                                     - 32 -

Cultural Property:
Laos has sites of great cultural significance, not all of which are currently known. The project will not
issue titles to lands the government deems as highpriority for further study. It i s expected that under the
project, the boundaries of these areas will be delimited and title will be issuedin the name of the state.

Social and Environmental Guidelines have been prepared to ensure that appropriate policies and
procedures are defined and applied to avoid or mitigate any potential negative impact of the project on
vulnerable groups and on the environment, in particular when safeguard policies are applicable. The
Social and Environmental Guidelines was approved by the Minister of Finance prior to negotiations.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A number of actions will be taken to ensure project sustainability. Firstly, to ensure that benefits of the
first-time registration are sustained through the registration of subsequent transactions, the project will
include public information campaigns to explain the importance of registering land transactions for
maintaining land tenure security and gaining access to credit. Secondly, the project will support the
development of institutional and human resource capacity that will sustain titling and registration
activities which will help build capacity to manage title transfers after the project i s completed. Thirdly,
the project will study and formulate land policies aimed at eliminating factors that discourage people
from registering land transactions, such as high transfer taxes and the requirement for three levels of
registering transactions (village, district and province). Finally, Component 1 of the project (Further
development of land policy and regulatory framework) will conduct a specific study on the financial
sustainability of the land registration system, with a view to formulating recommendations on options to
strengthen the long-term sustainability of land administration.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
                     Risk                        Risk Rating                 Risk MitigationMeasure
 from Outputsto Objective
 lomestic market conditions with regard               S          Externalto the Project.
 o demand and prices remain stable.
 ;inancia1 sector i s not strengthened.               S          The FinancialSector ReformProject will assist
                                                                 instrengthening the financial sector.
 iocial and political stability.                     M           Externalto the project.
 :ramComponentsto Outputs
 :he government i s not committed to land             S          IDA is maintainingan active dialogue with
 jolicy reform.                                                  DOL and other implementing agencies to keep
                                                                 abreast of the developments in government.
                                                                 The project will be scaled back if commitment
                                                                 to reforms flags.
 ;takeholders are not able to reach                   S          The project would include support to the
 oncensus on the priority policy areas.                          government to undertake consultations with the
                                                                 main stakeholders on landpolicy issues to
                                                                 facilitate consensus building.The scope of the
                                                                 land policy component will be reduced if it i s
                                                                 clear that the government i s not able to reach
                                                             -   consensus.


                                                   - 33 -

The government i s not committed to                   S            IDA is maintaining an active dialogue with
institutional reform.                                              D O L and other implementing agencies to keep
                                                                   abreast of the developments in government.
                                                                   The project will be scaled back if commitment
                                                                   to reforms looses momentum.
Government counterpart funds are not                  H            Continued dialogue with the Ministryof
available.                                                         Finance.
Skilled prefessionals are not available to            M            The project will support the development of a
join land adjudication and surveying                               highleveldiploma insurveying and land
teams.                                                             administration.
Government is not committed to gender                 M            Technical Assistance will be provided to
mainstreamingin project activities.                                develop gender mainstreaming activities under
                                                                   the project and provide adequate awareness at
                                                                   all levels of the importance of gender
                                                                   mainstreamingto achieving the overall
                                                                   objectives of the project.
Government does not fulfill the                       S            Continued dialogue with government. The
commitment to increase the number of                               scope of the land registration component will
government staff in provincialand                                  be reducedif the government i s not able to
district land offices.                                             fulfill its commitment.
Community are not aware of the benefits               S            Extensive public relations would be
of landregistration.                                               implemented under the project to explain the
                                                                   benefits of landregistration.
Overall Risk Rating                                   S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Association will consider the Credit effective when:
    The Borrower has adopted the Procurement Manual, the FinancialManagementManual, and the
    Community Education and Services (CES) Operations Manual (PAD, Annex 2 and Annex 6 (A) &
    (B);DCA Article VI(a) and Schedule 4, para. 4).
    The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, has adopted the RestructuringPlan and appointed
    essential personnel in accordance therewith in its Department of Lands, satisfactory to the
    Association; (PAD, Section C.2;andD C A Article VI (b)).
    The Borrower has hired a Land Policy Advisor to provide support to DONLUPADin the
    implementation of component Iand has hired an Implementation Advisor to support D O L in project
    implementation (PAD, Annex 2; DCA, Article VI (c) and Schedule 4, para. 1 (b)).
   D O L has executed the MoUs betweenDOL andLWU,DONLUPAD, the Polytechnic School, and
   NGD (PAD, Section C.4; DCA Article VI(d), and Schedule 4, para. 6).
   The Borrower has established within PFDDOL a computerized financial management system, which
   includes accounting software capable of generating FMRreports and financial statements, all
   acceptable to IDA; and hiringand training three additional financial management staff at PFD(2
   accountants and 1cashier), as well as two additional staff at DONLUPAD (1accountant and 1


                                                    - 34 -

     cashier) (PAD, Annex 6 (A) & (B); D C A Article VI (e) and Schedule 4, para. 1).
0    All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AusAID Grant Agreement have been fulfilled,
     other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement (DCA Article VI (f)).

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]
Other Conditions

A Project SteeringCommittee (PSC) will be established by November 30,2003, to oversee general
project implementation, and will be maintained over the life of the project; in each project province, a
provincialProject Oversight Committee (POC) will be established and will be maintained over the life of
the project (PAD, Section (2.4; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 2).

    D O L and DONLUPAD will, by November 30, 2003 and August 31 of each year thereafter, furnishto
    IDA for its review and comments, an annualwork plan andbudget, a procurementplan, and a
    training plan for each agency, and implement them takmg into considerationthe comments received
    from IDA (DCA Schedule 4, para. 3).
    D O L and DONLUPADwill submit ajoint mid-term review report no later than February 28,2005 in
    preparation of the first Mid-Term Review, to be undertaken no later than March 30, 2005. The
    Mid-Term Review report will include an assessment of the project performance, re-calculation of
    project costs and procurement arrangements, and discuss the need to adjust or restructure the project
    design based on the experience of the first half of the project implementation period. D O L and
    DONLUPADwill submit similar reports for the secondMid-TermReview no later than September
    28,2006. The second Mid-Term Review will be undertaken no later than October 31,2006 (DCA,
    Schedule 4, para. 13 (b) and (c).
    D O L and DONLUPADwill, by August 31, and February 28 of each year, beginningFebruary 28th,
    2004, furnish to IDA and other co-financiers ajoint six-monthly progress report outlining progress in
    project implementationin the previous six months, any issue which requires attention, and a plan for
    the next six months. The progress reports will also include a section on the key indicators and
    another section on FinancialManagement. The format of this report will be developed and submitted
    to IDA for its review and comments no later than December 31, 2003 (DCA Schedule 4, para. 14).
    An annual financial audit will be conductedby an independent auditor acceptable to IDA,following
    terms of reference approvedby IDA, and in accordance with international auditing principles. Such
    audits will be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year (PAD, Section C.2,
    and Annex 6 (B); DCA, Schedule 4, para.15).
    DOLand DONLUPAD willjointly submit a government contribution to the Implementation
    Completion Report within six months after project completion.

Conditionsfor Component I
0  DONLUPAD will, by April 1, 2004, initiate public consultations for the development of a national
    land policy. The national land policy paper will be completed by September 30, 2005, and the a
   revised land law based on the national landpolicy will be submitted to the National Assembly by
   September 30, 2006 (PAD, Annex 2; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 7 (b).
0  DONLUPAD will develop a strategy on coordination and sharing of land information no later than
   December 31,2004 (PAD, Annex 2; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 7 (c).

Conditionsfor ComponentI1
   Implementationof the restructuring plan of D O L shall be completed by October 31, 2003. The
   yearly staffing plan for D O L and the provincial land offices will be fully implementedby December
   31 of each year (PAD, Annex 14; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 8).


                                                    - 35 -

Conditionsfor ComponentI11
   D O L would develop, adopt, and monitor service standards for the operations of provincialland
   offices by June 30,2004 (PAD, Annex 2; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 9).

Conditionsfor ComponentIV
   DOL will, by May 31, 2004, submit to the Association for its review and comments, a timebound
   action plan inrespect of the community education and services activities to be carried out under the
   Project. DOL will, by June 30,2004, commence, the implementation of the saidplan (PAD, Annex
    11;DCA, Schedule 4, para. 10(a) and 10(b)).

Conditionsfor ComponentV
   A monitoringand evaluation system will be developed inDOL to monitor project inputs, outputs,
   outcome and impact. The system will also report on progress on the activities undertaken by
   DONLUPAD. The system will be completed by June 30,2004 (PAD, Annex 15; DCA, Schedule 4,
   para. 11(c)).
   The second round of the socioeconomic and environmental impact assessment will commence no
   later than October 31, 2006 (PAD, Annex 2; DCA, Schedule 4, para. 12(b)).

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0  1.a) The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start of project implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory

04.   quality.
      The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




1.Compliance with Bank Policies
   1.This project complies with all applicableBankpolicies.
c] 2. The following exceptions to Bankpolicies arerecommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                       MarkD.Wilson                            Ian C.Porter
                                       Sector Manager/DlreCtor                 Country ManagerlDlrector




                                                 - 36 -

                                    Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
              LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project
                                     Key Performance

jector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:
Zeducingpoverty and
mhancinggeneraleconomic
yowth through: (i)  Promoting
nvestmentinnatural resource!
nanagementand improving
igricultural productivity; (ii)
romoting the development of
xivate sector.



JrojectDevelopment             OutcomeI Impact                  Jrojectreports:
Ibjective:                     Indicators:
ro improve the security of     Increasing resolution of land    jovernment reports.        Domestic market conditions in
and tenure; to develop         disputes.                                                   regard to demandandprices
ransparentand efficient land                                    Socioeconomicand           remain stable.
ldministration institutions at Generalsatisfaction in land      mvironmental impact
he national andprovincial      office services.                 tssessment.                Financial Sector is
evels; and to improve the                                                                  strengthenedand banks are
;overnment's capacity to       Equal access of women to land ,and office records.          able to extend loansto clients.
rovide social and economic     office services and landtitling
,ervicesthrough broader        activities.                      'roject progress reports.  Social andpolitical stability.
evenuebase from property
elated fees and taxes.         Increaseinthe number of
                               formal landtransactions(both
                               sales andrentals).

                               Increaseininvestment inthe
                               property sector.

                               Increaseinformal lending,
                               increasesize of loans, and
                               reduction ininterest rate.

                               Increasedhousehold income in
                               project areas.

                               Increasein government
                               revenuesfrom landand
                               property taxes andfees.




                                                           - 37 -

3utput from each           Output Indicators:               Voject reports:            From Outputs to Objective)
>omponent:
Cey landpolicies are       NationalLandPolicy               3ovemmentreports.          lighlevel govemment
ormulated and associated   Committee establishedand                                    ommitment and strongpolical
,egulatoryinstruments      functioning effectively.         'roject Progressreports.   upport to policy reform.
Ieveloped and adopted.
                           Proceduresfor policy             3ank supervision reports.
                           developmentbasedon                                          ibilityof key government
                           consultation with key                                       .genciesrelated to land
                           stakeholdersdeveloped and                                   esourcesto reachconsensus
                           adopted.                                                    Inthe priority policy areas.

                           Government capacity to study                                ncreased civil society
                           and formulate land policies                                 nformation and awarness of
                           improved.                                                   andpolicies.

                           Policies, regulatory
                           framework, and
                           implementation procedureson
                           key landpolicies approved by
                           government.

                           Enhancepublic awarenessof
                           land policy issues.

                           Guidelines for the treatment of
                           environmentally sensitive
                           areas inland administration
                           developed and implemented.

                           A strategy on landinformation
                           sharing developed and
                           approved; a pilot of land
                           information sharing i s tested.

)OL has the institutional  Restructuring plan of DOL is                                ligh level government
apacity to undertake its   approved and implemented by                                 :ommitment for institutional
nandate inan effecient,    October 1,2003.                                             eform.
ffective and sustainable
nanner.                    Provinciallandoffices
                           establishedandwell
                           functioning.

                           Land Tax Division of DOL
                           strengthenedand separated
                           from DOL in year 3 of the
                           project.

                           Relationship betweenDOL
                           andtheir provincial and
                           district landoffices is



                                                       - 38 -

                        streamlinedand line of
                        reporting on technical and
                        administrative matters
                        improved.

                        Project implementation is
                        streamlined through the
                        normal structureof DOL and
                        the provincial land offices.

                        Human capacity (number of
                        staff graduatedfrom the high
                        leveldiploma program); and
                        number of graduatesretained
                        by the government.

                        [ncreasedpercentageof
                        womenstaff inDOLand their
                        provincial anddistrict land
                        offices.

                        Increasein the percentageof
                        women and ethnic groups
                        peopleenrolled in the high
                        level diploma.

                        M&E systemsand procedures
                        ieveloped and implementedto
                        supportproject management
                        mdassessmentof impact and
                        service delivery and
                        stakeholderperception.




Vel1functioning land    Vumber of provincial and          Land office reports and        Zounterpart funds are timely
:gistration system.     listrict land offices established statistics.                    tvailable.
                        nproject areas.
                                                          Project quarterly anmd special jovernment fulfilled the
                        Service Standardsfor land         reports.                      :ommitment to increase
                        ,egistrationtransactions                                        ;overnment staff inprovincial
                        leveloped, agreed,                Socio-economic impact         tnddistrict landoffices.
                        mplemented andmonitored.          assessment.
                                                                                         Zommunities are aware of
                        Streamlinedproceduresland         Bank's supervision reports.    )enefitsof land registration.
                        egistration procedure
                        leveloped andimplemented.

                        h e r 80% of subsequent land
                        ransactions are registered.

                        Ievelopment and


                                                     - 39 -

                          implemention of a community
                          relations program, including
                          active program of monitoring
                          community satisfaction.

                          Development and
                          implementation of landrecord
                          managementstrategy.

                          Increasedpercentageof
                          women staff inthe provincial
                          anddistrict land offices.

                          Effective community
                          education and services
                          program implemented,
                          includingbroad social
                          awareness, impact monitoring
                          and full LWUparticipation.

                          Number of villages coveredb j
                          the VIS system.


Vel1functioning systemfor Effective community             jocio-economic and        ivailability of government
ssuinglandtitles.         education and services          nvironmental assessment.  :ounterpartfunds
                          program implemented
                          includingbroad social           ,and Office Records.
                          awareness, impact monitoring                              ivailability of skilled
                          and full LWUparticipation.      'rogress Reports.         rofessionals to be hiredfor
                                                                                    .djudications and surveying.
                          Number of titles issued.

                          90% of issuedtitles collected
                          by the beneficiaries.

                          Productivityof SAT teams.

                          Number of titles issuedin
                          nameof women or joined
                          titles.

                          Cost per title is less than
                          US$25.

                          Titles production and
                          distribution in less than 4
                          months after adjudication.

                           'ercentage of women in
                           idjudication teams.

                           :orward planning processfor
                           rea selection is inplace and
                           :fficient.


                                                     - 40 -

mproved capacity of DOL     khancedDOLcapacity in       ProjectProgressReports.  lvailability of counterpart
indlandoffices to implement xoject management, including                         'unds.
mdmanageproject activities. irocurement, finance,       SupervisionReports.
                            Aanning, budgeting and                               :ulfillment by MoF of
                            nonitoring.                                          :ommitment to hireadditional
                                                                                 itaff inDOL.
                            3stablishmentof anM&E
                            iystem; M&Ereports
                            iroduced regularly.

                            Zontractingof the second
                            .oundof socioeconomic and
                            mvironmental impact
                            issessmentby October 31,
                            !006.




'roject Components/         nputs: (budget for each     Droject reports:         from Componentsto
iub-components:
.Developmentof              :omponent)                                           htputs)
                   land     JS$3.13 million
iolicy and regulatory
ramework

a) Development of
overnmentcapacity to
mnulate landpolicies;

b) Landpolicy formulation
nddevelopmentanddrafting
fregulatory framework;

2) Establishmentof a
oordination mechanismfor
mdinformation.
.InstitutionalDevelopmenl   JS$2.13 million

1) Longterm institutional
evelopmentof DOL and
'rovincialLand Offices;

J) Training and Human
LesourcesDevelopment;

:) Education inthe areaof
md administration, land
magement, and property
aluation.
.Development    of a modern JS$2.24million
indregistrationsystem




                                                    -41 -

 (a) Strengtheningof land
 offices to achieve agreed
 service standards;

 (b) Community Education and
Services;

(c) Strengtheningland
valuation to support land
registration;

(d) Support to the Department
of StateAssets.

4. Accelerated Land Titling JS$7.98 million
through Systematic
Registration

(a) Community Education and
Services;

(b) Systematiclandtitling.


5. Support to Project        JS$8.44 million
Management and
[mplementation

[a) Technical Assistance to
support capacity building;

[b) Support to project
managementand
implementation;

:c) Monitoring and
Evaluation.




                                               - 42 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
            LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Second LandTitling Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$3.13 million
                      -
Development of LandPolicy and Regulatory Framework

This component will support the development of the land policy and regulatory framework through (i)
the development of government capacity to coordinate the formulation of land policies: (ii)the
formulation of key policies inthe areas of land management and administration, and the development and
drafting of decrees and ministerial instructions to implement them: and (iii)       coordination of land
information. Technical Assistance for this component, which i s essential to ensure capacity building in
the recently created DONLUPAD, will be financed by IDA. An International Land Policy Advisor will
be hired as a condition for Credit effectiveness.

A. Development of the government's capacity to formulate landpolicy

This subcomponent will strengthen DONLUPAD to formulate land policies and propose revisions of
laws and regulations. The subcomponent will facilitate the operation of the new National Land Policy
Committee (NLPC) in order to coordinate policy and regulatory development. The NLPC includes
representation from the various agencies concerned with land administration and management, with its
secretariat located inDONLUPAD.

The sub-component will finance a new building for DONLUPAD, vehicles, office equipment and
furniture, contractual staff, public consultations, seminars and events of the NLPC, government and
contractual staff travel costs, and publication and dissemination of policy papers, laws and regulations.
The subcomponent would also finance technical assistance.

B. Land policy formulation anddevelopment of legal regulatory framework.

This subcomponent will support the formulation of key land policies for land administration and
management, and the drafting of required regulatory and legal instruments to implement them. The
subcomponent will provide support for reviews of policy and where necessary studies on these issues,
policy development and any changes in regulations or amendments to laws, including the Land Law. A
number of policy issues have been tentatively identified in the discussion paper "Issues and Options for
Policy and Strategy Program for Land Administration and Land Use Planning in Lao PDR." This
subcomponent will be implemented by DONLUPAD, which has responsibility for land policy
development and coordination of land agencies.

Broad landpolicy development i s the responsibility of DONLUPAD and the NLPC. Proposals for policy
revisions and legal measures will be developed by DONLUPAD, discussed by NLPC and forwarded to
government, and where appropriate to the National Assembly. In the short term, DONLUPAD will be
conducting consultations leading to legal measures to deal with issues arisingunder Articles 3 and 85 of
the LandLaw. These measures should be proposed to government by September, 2003. Ina second stage
of work, from September 2003 through September 2004, DONLUPAD in consultation with the NLPC
will develop a National Land Policy. There are a variety of policy issues noted in the Issues and Options
paper that need attention, identified under broad categories of i)land administration; ii)land allocation
and settlement: iii)land management and land use planning and development; and iv) landtaxes, fees and



                                                  - 43 -

 valuation. The National LandPolicy would chart key directions for change in these areas, for approvalby
 government. Subsequently, detailed proposals for policy revision would be prepared for priority topics.

 For each priority topic a proposal for policy revision would be prepared. Where necessary, this would be
 preceded by a study. Each policy revision proposal would be subjected to public consultation, and based
 on the recommendation of the NLPC a final proposal would be sent forward to government for approval.
 Legal instruments needed to implement the policy change would then be prepared and approved. Priority
 areas for policy revision on which work would begin in Year Iof the project have been identified as: i)
 community ownership of land, ii)land allocation, and iii)land markets. In Year II, issues would
                                                                                      priority
 be iv) land classification and regulations, and v) land based revenue. A study would be required for
 policy development on the second topic. In Year ID,a study would be carried out on vi) sustainability of
 the land registration system. A framework for Terms of Reference for development of these studies and
 proposals i s included in the project preparation report. Further priority areas for policy revision work
 during Years IV and V are expected to be identified as policy development proceeds, including the
compatibility of the existing legal framework with customary practices, including inheritance and family
 separation.

This sub-component will finance consultants services to undertake studies and policy analysis,
consultations workshops, contractual staff, travel cost for government and contractual staff, incremental
operations cost, training, education and overseas study tours, and technical assistance.

C. Coordination of landinformation

This subcomponent will support the development of policy for the coordination of the collection and
sharing of land information by land-related agencies. The sub-component will initially support the
development of a general strategy to coordinate land related data. The project would support the
implementation of the first phase of the strategy to focus on coordinating land information in Vientiane
Prefecture.

The component will finance consultant services to develop the land information strategy, equipment and
furniture and incremental staff cost. If the implementation of the first phase i s successful, and in
agreement with IDA, the subcomponent will finance the creation of a National Land Information Center
(focusing on Vientiane Prefecture) through data acquisition, creation of a meta-data system for indexing,
accessing and standardizing land information sources, procurement of GIs and image processing
software, and the publication and dissemination of promotionalhnformational material about the Center.
The component will also finance the establishment of an Infoshop to sell the data to public and private
users. Government policy on data sharing and charge back will be developed before proceeding with the
implementation of the establishment of the National Land Information Center.

Project Component 2 US$2.13 million
                      -
Institutional Development

This component will provide support to three main areas: (a) restructuring of the DOL and of the PLOs
and DLOs, to provide the basis for the long term institutional development of a modem and efficient land
administration agency; (b) training and human resources development for DOL and other institutions
involved in project implementation at central, provincial and district levels; and (c) support to the
Polytechnic School's education programs in land administration, management, and property valuation.




                                                   - 44 -

A. Long term institutional development of the Department of Lands (DOL) and its provincial land
offices

Weaknesses in the organization and functioning of D O L were identified as key constraints to the
successful implementation o f the LTP. As part of project preparation, a workshop was held in DOL to
agree on a re-structuring plan, in accord with previous analytical work, for the department and its
provincialand district offices.

This sub-component will support the implementation of the agreed restructuring plan for DOL and
provincialand district land offices. Major elements of the restructuring plan include:

 (i) integrationoftheProjectSupportUnit(PSU)inDOLandoftheprovincialProjectFacilitation
     the
Units (PFUs) in the PLOs. At central level, staff of the PSU will be transferredto the new PFD of DOL
and carry out the functions of project management, including planning, budgeting, procurement,
disbursement, monitoring and reporting, and overall coordination of project activities. The Technical
Monitoring Unit of the PSU will be transferred to the Cadastral Surveying Division (CSD); at provincial
level, the Provincial Project Facilitation Units (PPFU) will be merged with PLOs' Planning and Finance
Section (PFS). The PFS of PLOs will be responsible for project management, including planning,
budgeting, local procurement, sub-account management, supervision of project activities (including
Surveying and Adjudication Team (SATs), monitoring and reporting; similar structures would be
adopted and implemented in district land offices;

(ii) streamlining the functional and administrative relationships between D O L and the provincial and
district land offices;

(iii)staffingplanforprojectedstaffrequirementsinDOLandinprovincialanddistrictlandoffices,
     a
and analysis of training and Human Resources Development (I-IRD) needs. Staff will be redeployed to
the new divisions and units o f DOL, and to the new sections of PLOs and DLOs, with a total incremental
number of staff of 187 over five years, including 49 civil servants and 138 contract staff. Most of the
increase will occur at provincial and district level. In addition, SAT team composition will be
strengthened by the recruitment of new CES staff. Recruitment of new CES staff will be based on criteria
and slulls requirements developedduring project preparation; and

(iv) strengthening the monitoringcapacity of provincialland taxation units including the establishment of
tax database, in preparationfor the transfer of land tax functions out of D O L in the medium term.

The preparation and approval of Ministerial regulations covering the functions and responsibilities of the
new structure will be completed prior to the start of LTP II.Further work i s also required to review skill
needs, update and refine job descriptions and develop criteria for staff redeployment and recruitment.
The international HRDhraining adviser under the current project will assist DOL in preparing the
necessaryministerial regulations, HRDrequirements and a training strategy.

Support under this sub-component would include long-term inputs from an international institutional
advisor and a national HRD advisor to implement the restructuring plan and build capacity in DOL. The
sub-component will finance incremental contractual staff at DOL, PLOs and DLOs. The sub-component
will also provide funds for furniture, office equipment and vehicles, and operating costs for the new
Technical Support Unit and Central Training Unit,and fund the development costs of a land tax database
system in land tax sections of PLOs.




                                                   - 45 -

B. Trainingand HumanResources Development

Deficiencies in human capital and specific skdls, as well as in HRDplanning, practices and management
were a major cause of delays in the implementation of the LTP. Addressing these weaknesses i s central
to the capacity buildingfocus and to achievingthe objectives of LTP II.

The implementation of the restructuring plan of D O L and provincial and district land offices and the
development o f project activities will require strengthening of current training activities to meet the
training needs o f current and new staff of D O L and other departments and institutions involved in project
implementation (DSA, NGD, Polytechnic School, LWU,DONLUPAD) at central, provincial and district
level.

The planning, management, coordination, outsourcing, monitoring and evaluation of training programs
under the project will be the responsibility of the new Central Training Unit of DOL. The Central
Training Unit will access and manage technical expertise from within DOL, the Polytechnic School and
the private sector for the purposes of assessing training needs of stakeholders; preparing training
modules, manuals and materials; delivering training; and evaluating training courses.             Technical
assistance (international and national) will be required to support train-the-trainer programs in most
technical areas of the project until sufficient trained trainers become available. Training will be
conducted at central and provincial level and cover the needs of all project implementing agencies. Short
course training requirements are expected to include land policy, land registration, valuation, CES,
project management and planning, training management and human resource management as well as
computer and Englishskills.

An outline training strategy has been developed during project preparation. This training strategy will be
further developed by the -/training     adviser in the current project, prior to the start of LTP II.

The project will finance a long-term international institutional advisor and national HRD adviser who
will assist the Central Training Unit implement the training strategy. The project will also finance the
cost of conducting training programs as well as funding 10 scholarships for staff of DOL, PLOs, DLOs,
NGD, LWUand DONLUPAD to attend the 3-year HighDiploma in Survey and Land Administration at
the Polytechnic School. A further 10 scholarships will be provided for contract and/or non-project
students. Special attention to gender balance will be given in granting scholarships and in all training
programs to ensure equal opportunities for women.

This sub-component will also include further support for strengthening of HRD management and
planning practices in relation to merit recruitment, operating procedures and standards, job descriptions,
establishment register, performance appraisal, etc.

C.Educationinthe area of landadministration and managementand propertyvaluation

Under the LTP, support was provided to the Polytechnic School, under the Ministry of Education, for
curriculum development and training to enable the School to offer a High Diploma in Survey and Land
Administration (HDSLA). The new final year curriculumhas been specially designed to include modules
relevant to LTP II including land policy, project management, valuation, land administration and CES.
The annual intake for the HighDiploma i s 35 students.

The project will support implementation of the HDSLA through financing of short-term international and
national education advisors to upgrade teaching, education management and technical slulls of the
Polytechnic School staff. Scholarships would be provided to two lecturers from the Polytechnic School


                                                   - 46 -

for study in a country in the region. The project will also support the construction of a new lecture
buildingand a drawing laboratory, the renovation of dormitories and lavatories, the provisionof teaching
material, equipment and vehicles. The sub-component will also finance, on a declining basis,
maintenance and operating costs incurredby the program.

ProjectComponent3 US$2.24 million
                      -

Development of a modern LandRegistration System

This component will continue to strengthen the land registration system, the associated work flow
procedures and in particular the operation o f land offices as this i s the means o f ensuring a transparent
and efficient system that i s sustainable and accessible to all citizens of Lao PDR. The component has
four sub-components.

A. Strengthening of landoffices to achieve agreed service standards

This subcomponent will focus on the operation of the land offices to ensure that they can meet the
demands of a significantly increased number of transactions arisingfrom the 200,000 titles issued under
the LTP and the 320,000 titles to be issued under LTP II.Appropriate service standards will be
identified, land office processes re-engineered, and new workflow processes will be implemented. The
regulatory framework and work instructions for land registration will be regularly reviewed to identify
opportunities for improvement and to overcome problems that may arise. Physical proximity and access
to land offices will be assessed as many people do not live close to provincial land offices and for this
reason, the role of district land offices will be carefully examined. Selected district land offices will be
established to test the best way to provide land office services at the district level. Once the experience i s
tested and evaluated, a decision on further support to district offices will be evaluated duringthe mid-tem
review of the project. In selected provinces where "mobile SATs" are proposed to operate, land offices
will be upgraded to enable the establishment of the Land Registration System.

The sub-component will finance office renovations and new land offices in selected provinces and
districts, the development of land office computerized applications, associated hardware and software
and training and equipment, training and incremental operating cost. The sub-component will also
finance the costs of contractual staff, and travel cost of contractual and government staff. Technical
assistance support for this subcomponent involves inputs from a land registration advisor, a cadastral
advisor and an Institutionaland HRDadvisor.

B. Community Education andServices (CES)

This subcomponent includes support for community education and services, and information
dissemination and community participation activities in all components of the project including land
office services and operations. Provincial land offices will be where most of the CES activities are
planned and coordinated and CES staff in those offices will need to have further training to cover the
wider scope of CES in LTP II. Lao Women's Union will continue their role as a contractedagent for
                                The
the delivery of certain CES activities although coordination mechanisms will be improved. As women
make up a significant proportion of Land Office customers, strategies to deal with relevant gender issues
will be incorporated into all CES activities. A communication strategy will be developed by DOL, that
will take into account the expanded role of CES in LTP JI. Existing CES material will also be revised
accordingly. Monitoring the effectiveness of CES activities will be improved through regular, rapid
participative evaluations and a customer feedbacklcomplaints mechanism in land offices so that CES
processes and materials can be modified to better meet customers needs.


                                                   - 47 -

 One aspect of this sub-component is the development of advisory services for land title holders. It will
involve finding ways to develop on-going links with communities who have already received titles to
follow up on those identified as vulnerable so that they get additional support, and to ensure that
registrations are kept up to date. This may involve on-going links with LWU and village leaders, and
periodic communication campaigns to remindpeople about the benefits of updating registration.

The sub-component will support information dissemination through mass media and producing other
information materials such as posters. The sub-component will finance the costs of contractual staff,
travel cost of contractual and government staff, and incremental operations cost. It will also support the
training of CES staff, office equipment and the contracting of the LWU's CES activities. Technical
assistanceincludes provision of a CES advisor.

C. Support valuation services

This subcomponent will support valuation capacity buildingthrough educational and training initiatives
so that Lao PDR has sufficient valuers to ensure the robustness of the current Valuation Information
System (VIS) and associated processes that support the land registration system, as well as the capability
to provide a wider range of valuation services to support a modern land administration system in the
future. Inaddition, duringthis phase of the project, the current VIS will be established in further selected
provinces where systematic registration has occurred and expanded to new districts in provinces in which
the VIS already exists.

The project will finance contractual staff, travel cost of contractual and government staff, training,
valuation map production, office equipment (including computers), motorbikes, and incremental
operational costs. Technical assistance support for this subcomponent involves inputs from a valuation
advisor.

D.Supportto the Department of StateAssets Management (DSA)

Over 20% of urban land parcels are state land. The integnty and completeness of DOLs Land
Registration System i s dependent on DSA participating in all aspects of the land registration process.
Currently, while ownership of land by the State i s recorded, the occupier's rightsto lease the land are not
recorded. However, DSA has indicated that it intends to register State land leases with DOL. In order to
assist in the establishment of a system of registering State land leases with DOL, this subcomponent will
support the improvement of DSA record management processes including measures to ensure that these
processes are compatible with similar processes used in land registration in land offices. As part of this
support, the means of providing access to land office information for the DSA will be explored to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of DSA and avoid duplication of effort.

The project will finance office renovations, office equipment and training. Technical assistance support
for this subcomponent involves inputs from the land registration advisor.

Project Component 4 US$7.98 million
                      -

AcceleratedLand Titling through Systematic Registration

The component will include two sub-components: (i)          community education and services: and (ii)
systematic land titling.



                                                   - 48 -

A.        Community Educationand Services

Inthe LTP, the information activities were carried out under a CRS component. Inthe secondproject an
expanded range of activities are identifiedin the CES strategy and are integratedinto several components
of the project. A major part of the CES strategy i s the community mapping and participation that will be
undertaken as part of the systematic registration component. The community mapping will identify the
social and ethnic profile of the communities before the commencement of the land titling activities. This
information will be used to: (i)  identify whether the community lives in indigenous setting and therefore,
individual land titling may not be appropriate; (ii)  assess whether the community uses part of the land as
communal land, and therefore, this area should not be provided individual titles; and (iii)  assess whether
there i s a need for refining the CES strategy for this community to address their specific needs.

Information dissemination and community participation in support of systematic registration will be
planned and coordinated through provincial land offices. The LWU will continue to play an important
role. The sub-component will also improve transparency and involve communities in the process at an
early stage in helping to identify potential problems and address these jointly. Simple information about
the community will be collected as part of the community mapping which will provide an opportunity to
disseminate information about the landrights, benefits and risks of titling, and the project process.

B.        Systematic Land Titling

This component will continue to support the program of accelerated land titling. It will be based on
improvedmethods that take advantage of the lessons leamt in the LTP and new methods, such as the use
of total station and GPS technology. In the second phase, systematic registration will focus on urban and
peri-urban areas and lowland agncultural areas in the eight original LTP provinces and Vientiane
Municipality and will use the same 22 systematic adjudication teams (SAT). The system of forward
planning will be strengthened and be based on defined area selection criteria. Forward planning will
include the coordination with NGD to ensure adequate maps and control points are available before
SATs are deployed in new areas.

Expansion to further provinces will only occur where there i s confidence that there i s capacity and
fundingavailable. A new approach, "mobile SAT" will be piloted in one province where an existing SAT
will be deployed to work in new areas in another province. Should this trial be successful, up to 3 SATs
will be transferred to work on areas identified and agreed with the supervision missions before the
mobilizationof these teams to the adjudication sites.

Inprovinces where the "mobile SAT'S" are to operate the Land Registration System will be established
to support the current titling activity and future activity with titled land.

NGD will service the need for control points for systematic registration (as well as basemaps to support
VIS). This work will be supervised by the Cadastral Survey Section of DOL.

Technical monitoring will continue to be an important task and will be undertaken by the Technical
Monitoring Unit of DOL. Reports from the technical monitoring will form an integral part of the six
monthly progress reports.

The project will finance contractual staff, travel cost and other field allowances for government and
contractual staff, office and survey equipment, vehicles, aerial photography and orthophoto production to
support systematic land titling, training, supplies and materials. Technical assistance support for this
subcomponent involves inputs from the land registration advisor and the cadastral survey advisor.


                                                    -49   -

Attachment Iincludes the project provinces and the list of criteria for assessment of a possible expansion
to other provinces. Attachment II includes the number of land titles to be issued in each of the project
provinces per year.

 Project Component 5 US$8.44 million
                      -
Support to Project Management and Implementation

This component includes three sub-components: (i)     Technical assistanceto support capacity building: (ii)
Support to project management and implementation; and (iii)    Monitoring and evaluation.

A. Technical Assistanceto support capacity building

The considerable technical assistance from the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) under LTP has been instrumental in helping DOL buildits capacity and implement the first
project. Continued technical assistance to support the management and implementation of LTP II i s
essential to allow the project to consolidate the achievements of LTP and support the development of the
new functions of the D O L and its provincial and district land offices, as well as other agencies and
institutions involved in the project.

InLTP II,it is expected that AusAID will finance long-term technical assistance in the areas of project
management and planning, institutional development, HRD, CES and land registration (subject to
ministerial approval).    Short-term technical assistance will be provided in the areas of surveying,
valuation, education and monitoring and evaluation. AusAID will also finance national advisers in the
areas of land registration, systematic adjudication, HRD, CES, education and survey and mapping. In
addition, funding will be provided for scholarships and training in Australia and other countries in the
region.

Technical assistance will have a particular focus on capacity buildingthrough support and mentoring of
DOL and related agency staff in Components 2-5, as well as support for training. The technical
assistance team will prepare 6-monthly rolling work programs, linked to DOL implementation plans.
Attachment IIIincludes the detailed TA inputs.

B. Support to project management andimplementation

This sub-component aims at strengthening the capacity of the key planning, finance and management
units of DOL involved in project coordination and implementation, at central and provincial levels. In
particular, this involves the development of forward planning processes and work programs, including
aredvillage selection based on specific criteria; budgeting and coordination of resource inputs from
technical areas of DOL and supporting agencies; review of the effectiveness of processes and procedures;
and monitoringof project implementationprogress.

The AusAID funded technical assistance team leader will provide management advice and support for
the development of forward planning processes and work programs. Additional support includes the
provision of one long-term international Project Implementation Advisor; one medium-term national
Procurement Specialist; computer, office equipment and furniture; vehicles; transportation, travel
allowances and per diems for project staff; incremental operation and maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, as well as recurrent costs and office supplies. The project will not finance, under any
circumstances, salaries of civil servants/public sector staff.



                                                   - 50 -

C. MonitoringandEvaluation

This sub-component aims at strengthening the Monitoring and Evaluation function of DOL, at central
and provincial level, and involves two elements (i)socio-economic impact study, and (ii)
                                                      a                                     development
of an M&E system within the PFD of DOL to track technical and financial project performance and
progress towards the achievement of the intendeddevelopment objectives.

The contractor for the baseline socioeconomic study has been selected and the study will be completed
prior to commencement of LTP II.A follow-up study will be undertaken in Year IV of LTP II.The aim
i s to assess the extent to which the objectives and expected outcomes of LTP IIare being realized over
time. Impact indicators include reduction in land disputes, increase in certainty and security of tenure,
increase in formal land transactions, increase in investment in the property sector, increase in lending
using mortgages as collateral, increase in government revenue, access and impact on women and other
vulnerable groups such as ethnic minorities, environmental impacts and measures of the level of service
satisfaction.

Additionally, the project will provide support for the detailed design, establishment and implementation
of an internal M&E system to track technical and financial project progress and performance at central
and provincial level, including assessment of planned work program outputs against actual performance
(target numbers and location, quality, timeliness, etc). The M&Esystem should also enable monitoring of
the effectiveness of implementation processes and incorporation of lessons learned into future planning
processes.

The project would finance the consulting services needed to carry out the socio-economic impact study
and the short-term technical assistance for the design, establishment and testing of the M&E system,
training, office equipment, travel costs of project staff and incremental recurrent costs.




                                                    -51 -

                                                                                 Annex 2



                                               Attachment I
                                  Project Areas and Criteria for Expansion

The project will be implementedin the following areas:

         Vientiane municipality
         Luang Prabang province
         Vientiane Province
         Xayabouly Province
         Savannakhet Province
         Champassack Province
         Khammuane Province
         Borikhamxay Province
         Saravane

Priority areas for project expansion have been tentatively identified as:
0        Oudomxay
0        Luangnamtha
a        Bokeo
0        Attapeu
0        Sekong

Expansion to other provinces will be assessedby the government, AusAID and the Bank taking into
considerationbudget availability and D O L capacity to support such expansion, which will bejudged on
the following criteria.

1.       Expansion into one province will be supported after Project Year Iwhen the following criteria
         are met:

1.1      All staff have been selected and appointed inaccordance with the agreed staffing plans and
procedures;
1.2      Adequate Counterpart funding for Project Year Ihas been released;
1.3      A Monitoring & Evaluation Unithas been established;
1.4      All new CES staff have been recruited, trained andmobilizedinaccordance with the new CES
strategy and community mapping i s beingimplemented consistently;
1.5      There are no significant backlogs in any province at any stage inthe issuingof new titles, with
the difference between parcels adjudicated and parcels distributed beingno more than 20,000;
1.6     Fundsto the LWU,NGD, Polytechnic andDONLUPAD havebeen releasedwithin 4 weeks of
submittingthe withdrawal application inaccordance with the MOUsbetweeneach organisationandthe
DOL.
1.7     All SAT are achieving 3 parcels a sub-team per day or better;
1.8     An ImplementationAdvisor is inplace.

2.      Expansion into two further provinces will be supported after Project Year D[ when the
        following criteria are met:


                                                   - 52 -

2.1  Successful expansion into the pilot province has occurred;
2.2  The Monitoring & Evaluation system i s operational;
2.3  CES Advisory services are being provided in all provinces;
2.4  An ImplementationAdvisor is inplace;
2.5  Continued achievement of criteria 1.2, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 are apparent.

3.   Expansion into another two further provinces will supported after Project Year IIIwhen the
     following criteria are met:

3.1  Effective expansion into the two provinces in(2) has occurred;
3.2  An ImplementationAdvisor is inplace
3.3  Continued achievement of criteria 1.2, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 are apparent.




                                              - 53 -

                                                                                       Annex 2



                                               Attachment 11
                 Expected Number of Parcels to be Adjudicated Under the Project"

The following table shows the estimated output of the LTPIItitling program province by province. With
respect to the new provinces, the provinces of Oudomxay, Luangnamtha, Bokeo, Attapeu and Sekong
have been identified as the priority areas for expansion beyond the current LTPprovinces.




*\ It is assumedthat 80% of adjudicatedparcels shallberegistered by the endof the project.




                                                   - 54 -

                                                              Annex 2


                                       Attachment I11
                             Technical Assistance Input

                                                      Quantities (person-months)
                                             2004    2005    2006    2007    2008 Total
A. Long TermInternational Advisor
 Team Leader                                  12      12       12      12      12   60
 LandRegistration                              3       3       6        6       3   21
 Institution/HR                                3      9        9        6       3   30
 CES                                           6      12       3        3       3   27
Subtotal Long Term International Advisor                                           138

B. Short Term International Advisor
   Project Director                            1       1       1        1       1   5
  Education                                            3       9                    12
  Valuation                                           12                            12
   Surveying                                   3       6       3                    12
   M&E                                         3       3       3                     9
   Unallocated                                                 3        3       3    9
Subtotal Short Term International Advisor                                           59

C. National Advisors
   LandRegistration                           12      12       12      12      12   60
   HRD                                         9      12       12      12           45
   Education                                   9      12       12                   33
   CES                                         9      12       12      12      12   57
   Surveying & Mapping                        12      12       12      12           48
   Systematic Registration                    12      12       12      12           48
Subtotal National Advisors                                                         291

D. OverseasTraining
  ScholarshipsLandAdmin & Mgt                 24      24                            48
  ScholarshipsLandAdmin in Thailand                            24      24           48
  Valuation Undergraduate Scholarship at BIT  12      24       12                   48
  Valuation Certificate Scholarship at BIT    12      24       24      12           72
  Regional Study Tours for:
   0     Middle Management
   0     Polytechnic on Curriculum Devt
   0     CES
   O   H  R  D

   0     Operation Management
   0     LandRegistration
   0     Valuation




                                                - 55 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Second Land Titling Project



A. Development of LandPolicy and RegulatoryFramework                                               1.10                1.90                   3.OO
B.Institutional Development                                                                        1.34                0.62                   1.96
C. Development of a Modem Land Registration System                                                0.92                 1.09                   2.01
D.Accelerated LandTitling through Systematic Registration                                         6.37                 0.74                  7.11
E.Support to Project Management andImplementation 1/                                              0.54                 7.80                   8.34
Total Baseline Cost                                                                              10.27               12.15                  22.42
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                            0.03                 0.05                   0.08
 PriceContingencies                                                                                1.31                0.11                   1.42
                                        Total Project Costs'                                     11.61               12.31                  23.92
                                  Total FinancingRequired                                        11.61               12.31                  23.92




Works                                                                                               0.43                   0.57                   1.oo
Goods                                                                                               0.24                   1.44                   1.68
ConsultantsServices and Training                                                                    2.11                   9.04                 11.15
Title DevelopmentCost                                                                               7.22                   0.35                   7.57
IncrementalOperatingCost                                                                             1.62                  0.91                   2.53
                                                      Total Proiect Costs1                          11.62                 12.31                 23.93
                                               Total Financing Required                 I           11.62    I            12.31     I           23.93

  1
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.18 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 23.74 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio i s 62.4
  % of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                  - 56 -

                               Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
            LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project



Summaryof Benefitsand Costs:

Qualitativebenefits

Before quantifyingthe benefits of landtitling, we need to develop a good qualitative understanding of the
benefits of the proposed project. The socioeconomic impact survey conducted in early 2002, which
covered 6 villages in both urban and peri-urban areas, identified the following economic and social
benefits from the LTP:

1.       First, tenure security has increased. People interviewed welcome the titling project as they
appreciate its value in terms of providing security of ownership. Virtually all persons interviewed during
the field survey recommended to speed up the titling process as well as the issuance of title deeds once
adjudication has beencompleted;
2.       Second, there i s evidence showing that land titling has contributed to an increase in property
investment and transactions. The four commercial banks interviewed report that there i s an increase in
the use of titles as collateral for loans to expand existing business or start new business. These banks also
acknowledge that they have more confidence in the titles (and associated central recording system) when
compared to survey certificates (previously the main document verifying ownership);
3.       Third, as a result of increased investment and improved tenure security, the land price has
increased by about 15% from 1999to 2002; and
4.       Fourth, adjudication and the issuing of titles have reportedly had a positive impact in resolving
land disputes. The Land Titling Project has also encouraged a greater awareness of rights regarding land
use as well as promoting rights of women with regard to land ownership.

Given the fact that most titles were issued after the year 2000 and that it will take some time for full
benefits to materialize, there i s reason to believe that the positive economic and social benefits from land
titling willbecome more noticeablein the long-run.

MainAssumptions:

A conventional method to economic evaluation of investments is employed, which proceeds by
estimating the future stream of costs and benefits and deriving net benefits to calculate the net present
value (NPV) and an economic rate of retum (ERR). Based on the information from field surveys and
experience from similar projects in other countries, the following assumptions are made:

Only economic benefitsfrom urban area are included in the analysis. There are three major reasons for
doing so. First, as i s the case in other countries, the socioeconomic impact survey shows that economic
benefits are more noticeable in urban area than that in peri-urban and lowland agricultural areas. Second,
there are some technical difficulties to measure the benefits in peri-urban and lowland agricultural areas.
Given the fact that 75% of land in peri-urban area i s paddy field, the gross economic benefits should be
measured through incremental increase of rice yield and associated income from titling, subtracting the
value of input costs. The same would apply for lowland agricultural areas. However, there i s a lack of
detailed information regarding the existing paddy cultivation practices and the trends in changing
cultivation practices, which does not allow to conduct a reliable analysis. Third, benefits in peri-urban


                                                      - 57 -

and lowland agricultural areas are only a small proportion of that in urban areas. We have tried to
measure the benefits in peri-urban areas by employing bold assumptions about improvements of rice
technology. However, even under these assumptions, the benefits from peri-urban areas only represents
about 14% of those from urban areas.

Urban benefits: comparing with land without title, it was assumed that land prices of plots with title
would increase by about 15% in five years, and then remain constant. Present land value for urban areas
have been estimated to be Kip 80000 (US$7.5) per square meter. The net yearly incremental increase in
land values have been phased times the benefited area. The actual benefits are extrapolated over a
35-year period.

Economic costs: total project financial costs (including TA grant).

We can reasonably argue that the estimated ERR based on these assumptions i s the lower bound of the
real ERR given that all these assumptions are quite conservative. For example, we assumed that the land
price would only increase by about 15% in five years and then remain constant. Experience from other
countries, however, shows that the prices of titled land generally increases withinn a range of 43%
(Indonesia, 1996) to 81% (Thailand) as compared to untitled land. In addition, we only considered the
benefits from the urban area and ignored that from the peri-urban and lowland agricultural areas. Finally,
we included all project costs in the analysis instead of prorating them according to different nature (e.g.,
directly titling-related or not, benefiting only urban areas or not, benefits going beyond the narrow
confine of the project or not). The ERR from this analysis, therefore, can be regarded as the lower bound
of the real ERR.

Results

The overall economic rate of retum of the proposed project would be about 21% and the NPV would be
US$19 million (Table 1 of the Annex). However, as argued by Feder et. al. (1988), the ERR based on
land prices may overvalue the net benefits from the perspective of the society as a whole.              The
overvaluation stems from the fact that landowners are risk averse, while society i s riskneural (or less risk
verse). Therefore the landowners pay a higher riskpremiumto security than the society does. Therefore,
the ERR should be discounted to reflect the real ERR to the society, particularly in areas with very high
tenure security risk. Given that the incidence of eviction from land in Lao has been infrequent, the
discount factor should not be high. If we assume that discount factor i s 20%, the ERR to the society i s
still around 16%.

Sensitivityanalysis / Switching values of criticalitems:

The following sensitivity analyses have been conductedand the results show that, with the significant
changes of either project costs or benefits (increase or decrease 20%), the proposed project still remains
economically sound.

Iftotal costs decrease20%, the ERR would be 27% andNPVwould beUS$22million;
Iftotal costs increase 20%, the ERRwould be 17%andNPV wouldbeUS$12million;

Iftotal benefitsincrease 20%, the ERRwould be 26% andNPV wouldbeUS$25 million;
Iftotal benefitsdecreases20%, the ERRwouldbe 17%andNPV would be US$9million.




                                                    - 58 -

   Table 1 Calculation of Economic Rate of Return(unit: US$ Million)
  Year              costs                                       Benefits
                                                         Urban                        Net
                                                        Benefits                    Benefits
    1                5.37                                   0                        -5.37
   2                 5.44                                 1.07                       -4.37
   3                 4.99                                 2.16                       -2.83
   4                 4.33                                 3.29                       -1.04
   5                 3.79                                 4.44                       0.65
   6                 0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   7                 0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   8                 0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   9                 0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   10                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   11                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   12                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   13                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   14                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   15                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   16                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   17                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   18                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   19                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   20                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   21                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   22                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   23                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   24                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   25                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   26                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   27                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   28                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   29                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   30                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   31                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   32                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   33                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   34                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
   35                0.48                                 5.59                       5.11
           NPV=US$19 million
           FRR=21%

B. FinancialRateof Return (FRR)

The purpose of conducting a financial analysis i s to assess whether the net financial benefits expected
from the project are attractive enough for the project participants. There are two key project participants
inthe proposedLTP11: the individuallandholders, andthe Government.

Financial benefits and costsfor landholders


                                                  - 59 -

Two major considerations motivate individual landholders to obtain land titles: one i s to improve land
ownership security and the other i s to have better access to credit. Due to enhanced land tenure security
and improved accessibility to formal credit, landholders will increase the investment in land. This will
induce a higher land value as well as increased the land productivity. Under the normal situation where
titles are issued upon request by landholders (Le,, sporadic registration which requires landholders to pay
the full cost), landholders who request a titling service do so with the expectation that the financial
benefits from acquiring the title would be higher than the cost of the title.

In the proposed LTP 11, individual landholders should have a strong incentive to participate the project.
The LTP IIwill continue to adopt the systematic adjudication method to undertake land tilting in large
volumes. To ensure a high participation of landholders on a voluntary basis, the cost of land titling has
been kept at a level significantly lower than the cost of producing a title. The affordability of the poorest
landholders is one major criteria of setting an appropriate registration fee. In the LTP, individual
landholders only need to pay about US$1 to obtain a title although the actual cost of systematic
registration i s around US$20 per title (the actual cost of sporadic registration ranges from US$50 to
US$lOO per title). This fee arrangement i s very similar to that in other countries. For example, in the case
of Thailand, landholders are charged less than US$5 per title, compare to the actual cost of US$36 per
title. In the case of Indonesia, landholders are charged about US$2 per title while the actual cost is
around US$26, and after 1999, the first registration i s basically free. The difference between the actual
titling cost and the fee charged to landholders is the subsidy from the Government, and the Governments
will recover the subsidy by charging full registration fee on subsequent land transactions. Both the
Government and IDA agreed that the fee arrangement of LTP IIwould be kept the same as that of the
first project. This arrangement should be attractive enough to individual landholders.

Financial benefits and costsfor the Government

The key issue of financial analysis i s to examine whether the proposed LTP 11i s financially attractive
enough to the government. From the government's perspective, the incremental revenues (financial
benefits) are generated from the following two sources:

1.       Firstregistration fee, which is about US$1per title:
2.       Subsequent registration fee, which i s about 3% of land value. The value i s determinedby the VIS
in areas where the VIS is operational; in areas without VIS, the village committee will determine the
value.

The financial costs to the government are all project costs and the Government's future management
costs associated with each title issued by the project (2% of total project cost). The grant for TA i s
excluded from the calculation since it does not carry financial implications from the government
perspective.

Methodology and major assumptions

All calculations are based on the estimated project costs of LTP and information about actual benefits
associated with the LTP (1997-2003).        Based on the results of the social-economic impact survey
conducted in early 2002, it i s assumed that land price will increase about 5% each year in the first five
years, and no further assumptions are made regarding any expected changes or enhancements to these
current actual benefits. The actual benefits (revenues) are extrapolated over a 35 year period. The capital
discount factor i s 0.1. Also based on information from the social-economic impact survey, the turnover
rate is 3% for year 1-5, and then 5% for the year 6-35. Field observations about land markets in urban


                                                    - 60 -

and peri-urban areas support this distribution. Average land transaction value comes from MOF and is
consistent with observations from the socioeconomic impact survey.

Results and fiscal impact

The results are shown inTable 2 of the Annex. The financial rate of return (FRR) i s 14% and the NPV i s
US$4.4 million. As in the case of economic analysis, the estimated FRR should also be viewed as a lower
bound of the real FRR given the conservative assumptions regarding the land price increase.

The fiscal impact of the proposed project should be neutral in the short-run given that less than 10
percent of the total project cost will be financed by the Government. In the long-run, it i s expected that
the fiscal impact of the proposed project will be very positive as shown by the relatively highFRR.

Sensitivity tests

The turnover rate, average land transaction value, and total number of title issued are key parameters in
this calculation. Therefore, to test the robustness of the above conclusion, a sensitivity test has been
conducted and results show that, with significant changes of these major parameters (increase or decrease
20%), the proposed project still remains financially sound.

Iftumover rate increases20%, the FRRwill be 17% andNPV will beUS$8.2 million;
Iftumover rate decreases 20%, the FRRwillbe 11%andNPV will beUS$0.62 million;

Ifaverage landtransaction value increases 2096, the FRRwill be 17%andNPV will beUS$8.2 million;
Ifaveragelandtransaction value decreases20%, the FRRwillbe 11% and NPV will be US$0.62 million;

Ifthe total numbers of title issuedincreases 20%, the FRRwill be 17% andNPV will beUS$8.2 million;
If the total numbers of title issued decreases 20%, the FRR will be 10% and NPV will be US$0.56
million.




                                                   - 61 -

Table 2 Calculationof Financial Rate of Return(unit: US$ Million)
Year     costs                              Benefits
                            First             Derivative           Net
                      RegistrationFee      RegistrationFee       Benefits
 1       3.23               0.08                0.00              -3.15
 2       3.27               0.08                0.29              -2.90
 3       3.36               0.08                0.60              -2.67
 4       3.49               0.08                0.94              -2.46
 5       3.66               0.09                1.31              -2.26
 6       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
 7       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
 8       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
 9       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
10       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
11       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
12       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
13       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
14       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
15       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
16       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
17       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
18       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
19       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
20       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
21       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
22       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
23       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
24       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
25       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
26       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
27       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
28       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
29       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
30       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
31       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
32       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
33       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
34       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
35       0.34                                   2.86              2.52
        NPV=US$4.4 million
        FRR=14%




                        - 62 -

                                     Annex 5: Financial Summary
            LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project
                                           Years Ending


                                                      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                               Year1     Year2      Year3    Year4     Year5   Year6   Year 7
                             ~~        1         I          I        I        I       I
 Total Financing Required
  Project Costs
   InvestmentCosts                2.9        4.0        4.1       3.8      4.2     2.4    0.0
  RecurrentCosts                  0.5        0.4         0.4      0.5      0.4     0.3    0.0
 Total Project Costs              3.4        4.4         4.5      4.3      4.6     2.7    0.0
 Total Financing                  3.4        4.4        4.5       4.3      4.6     2.7    0.0
 Financing
   IBRDADA                         1.8       2.4         2.4      2.7      3.5    2.0     0.0
   Government                     0.4        0.4        0.5       0.5      0.3    0.2     0.0
       Central                    0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
       Provincial                 0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
I  Co-financiers                   1.2       1.6         1.6      1.1      0.8    0.5     0.0
 User FeedBeneficiaries           0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
 Other                            0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
 Total Project Financing          3.4        4.4         4.5      4.3      4.6    2.7      0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                                - 63 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
        LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC: Second Land Titling Project

Procurement

   Procurement of all works and goods to be financed under the LTP 11 Project will follow the             "
   Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in
   January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999.

   Consultant services financed under the Credit will be procured in accordance with provisions
   stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the "Guidelines for Selectionand Employment of Consultants
   by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997,
   January 1999 and May 2002 (Consultant Guidelines).

   The Government has requested parallel co-financing under a grant from the Australian Agency for
   International Development (AusAID) in the amount of US$6.84 million. Procurement of goods and
   consulting services with this financing source will follow the corresponding AusAID procurement
   rules.

   STANDARD BIDDING DOCUMENTS:

   The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, works, standard evaluation reports and standard
   request for proposals for consulting services will be used under the Project. A standard quotation
   solicitation form and contract form for goods will be developed for procurement under shopping
   procedures.

   Summary of ProcurementAssessment Capacity

   Under the proposed LTP II,the D O L will be responsible for overall project coordination,
   administration, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). This follows the current
   arrangement under the LTP, building on the experience gained during the implementation of this
   ongoing operation. In addition, D O L would be the executing agency for components 2 through 5.
   The Department of National Land Use Planning and Development (DONLUPAD) will be the
   executing agency for component 1of the project. However, all procurement will be carried out by
   DOL.

   Within DOL, the PFD, to be created as part of the agency's restructuring plan (implementation of
   which i s a condition for credit effectiveness), will be directly in charge of project administration,
   financial management, annual planning and budgeting, monitoring and reporting, as well as
   coordinating between D O L and other participating agencies with IDA and the bilateral donor. The
   PFD will also be responsible for all project procurement. However, as per the government's
   decentralization policy, there will be some procurement of small items, such as office materials and
   furniture, or expenditures in support of the field work of the systematic adjudication (local travel and
   per diem), which would be performed through local procurement procedures (national shopping and
   commercial practices) by the Provincial Planning and Finance Section (PFS) in the Provincial Land
   Offices (PLOs). However, since the PFSs have limited experience and knowledge of IDA guidelines,
   all procurement activities carried out by the PFSs will be closely monitored, as well as under the
   direct responsibility of the PFD inDOL.




                                                  - 64 -

An assessment of the procurement capabilities of the project's implementing agencies was carried
out by IDA. The draft assessment report was discussed with the implementing agencies during the
pre-appraisal mission (February 2003) and appraisal mission (April-May 2003). The final report i s be
available in project files. The main findings and course of actions are as follows:

    Overall capacity of the implementing units involved in procurement i s weak and the associated
    risks are in the "high" category. Under the LTP, most of the procurement of goods, works and
    consulting services has been centrally performed by the Procurement Unit of the Project Office
    (LTPO) in the Department of Lands. Procurement activities have been implemented by LTPO,
    with the assistance of a Procurement Advisor financed by the Bank for the first two years, and
    the procurement unit has gained some experience of procurement procedures through the
    on-going project. However, its experience i s still limited due to Englishlanguage barriers and
    professional slulls in procurement aspects. The delays encountered with procurement activities
    under the ongoing project demonstrate that the LTPO does not have adequate capacity nor
    sufficient experienced staff to handle project procurement satisfactorily.

    In order to strengthen the capacity of PFD and PFSs in procurement aspects, as conditions for
    credit effectiveness, the project will: (i)
                                              recruit a full-time Project Implementation Advisor, with
    demonstrated knowledge and solid experience in procurement, to provide additional training to
    project staff, as well as continued support in the daily implementation of the project; and (ii)the
    Project Procurement Operational Manual, translated in local language, will be adopted by GOL
    to guide all procurement activities under the project. Furthermore, it would be required that staff
    of PFD and PFSs involved in procurement activities will have to attend the procurement training
    session in the project launch workshop.

    National laws and regulations are mostly consistent with the IDA'S procurement guidelines,
    except for the following items relating to NCB for which the current CPAR required these
    provisions to be addressedin the Development Credit Agreement:

    (i) preference whatsoever willbegiventoadomestic bidderoverforeignbiddersortoan
       no
    SOE over a non-SOE;

    (ii) shallbemadeonthebasisofthelowestevaluatedbid,andanybidawardbasedupon
        awards
    a point system, or any other criteria other than the lowest evaluated bid, shall be deemed invalid;

    (iii) willnotbeautomaticallyrejectedforlackofeffectivecompetitionsolelyonthebasisof
         bids
    the number of bidders or because all bid prices substantially exceed the budget allocated and the
    provisions of paragraph (i) of Article 4 of the IRRs 1639/MOF will apply only as hereby
    modified by the provisions on rejections of bids set forth in paragraphs 2.59-2.62 of the
    Guidelines:

    (iv) SOEs in the Borrower's country may participate only if they can establish that they: (i)    are
    legally and financially autonomous, and (ii)  operate under commercial law. N o dependent agency
    of the Borrower shall be permitted to bid or submit a proposal for the procurement of goods or
    works under the Project;

    (v) the Borrower shall not require bidders or potential bidders to register as such with the
    relevant authority of the Borrower as a condition of bidding; and

    (vi) IDA reserve the right to require that, in contracts financed by an IDA credit, it requires the


                                                - 65 -

         suppliers and contractors to permit IDA to inspect their accounts and records relating to the
         performance of the contract and to have them audited by auditors appointed by IDA.

To ensure efficient project implementation and mitigate the risks created by weak procurement capacity,
the following steps should be taken:

1. Before Credit Effectiveness: (i) Procurement Operation Manual will be translated into Lao and
                                     the
adopted by GOL; and (ii)   a full-time Project Implementation Advisor, with procurement knowledge and
experience, will be recruited to support implementation.

2. During implementation: (i)    intensive English and procurement training, including overseas training
such as training provided by the Asian Institute of Management in Manila, should be provided to the
Project procurement staff by the first year; (ii)
                                                staff involved inprocurement activities will have to attend
the procurement training session in the project launch workshop; and (iii)procurement training programs
will be performed by the World Bank Offices, Bangkok and Vientiane, before project start, and
additional procurement training will be conducted, based on needs, during the first years of project
implementation.

    Procurement Methods .

1.       Procurement of Civil Works :

         National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Procurement of civil works for office buildings estimated
to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent per contract will be done through NCB procedures. NCB
procedures are favored over ICB procedures because the small value of these contracts i s unlikely to
attract foreign competition. However, foreign contractors will not be excluded from participating. To
perform the works, NCB procurement documents will be prepared and submitted to IDA for concurrence.
The aggregate amount of contracts under this procedure will be around US$0.90 million.

         Procurement of Small Works: Renovation of land offices, estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract, will be contracted with fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three reputable domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The total
estimated cost for contracts under this procedures i s US$O.lO million.

2. Procurement of Goods

         International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Procurement of goods for GPS, computers, office
equipment, field equipment, a minibus and valuation map production estimated to cost above US$50,000
per contract will be procured through ICB procedures. In the evaluation of bids, a domestic price
preference margin equal to 15% of the CIF or CIP bid price of imported goods, or the actual custom duty
and imported taxes, whichever i s lower, will be allowed for domestically manufactured goods. The
aggregate amount of contracts under this procedure i s estimated to be US$0.79 million.




                                                   - 66 -

     International Shopping: Goods such as computers and software packages estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.16 million, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Contract will be
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers in two different
countries.

         National Shopping: Goods such as furniture and consumable materials estimated to cost less than
US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$O.lO million, may be
procured under national shopping procedures. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three domestic suppliers. Request for         quotations will include a detailed
description and quantities of goods, basic specifications, as well as the desired delivery time and place
and an acceptable form of contract. The qualified firm offering the lowest evaluated price quotation will
be contracted.

         Procurement through United Nations' Inter -Agency Procurement Service Office (IAPSO) :The
vehicles and motorcycles for administrative works will be purchased through IAPSO. The total contract
i s estimated to amount to US$0.62million.

3.       Consultingservices

About US$ 9.61 million would be allocated to consulting services and technical assistance. The majority
of the contracts, estimated at US$6.84 million, will be financed by AusAID, according to their own
procurement guidelines. These would include technical assistance for the different components.
Consultant services financed by IDA, totaling US$2.77 million, shall be procured in accordance with
IDA "Guidelines for the Selection andEmployment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published
by the Bank in July 1997, revised April 1998, July 1999 and May 2002, and using the Bank's Standard
Request for Proposal - Selection of Consultants, as well as the Bank`s Sample Evaluation Report of
October 1999. Any contract above US$200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business
requesting expression of interest prior to developing a short list. Detailed requirements of Consulting
Services, with terms of reference for each specialist requirements, will be available in the Project
Implementation Plan.

         Quality Cost-BasedSelection (QCBS): The selection of firms would be based on quality and cost
based selection procedures. Consultant assignments for consulting firms for supporting land policy and
legal framework development, for institutional strengthening of DONLUPAD and for coordination of
land information, for an estimated total amount of US$1.74 million, will be procured through IDA'S
QCBS procedures.

         SelectionBased on Consultants' Qualifications (SBCQ): SBCQ procedures will be used to select
the consulting firm for external financial audit, as well as for supporting the training and human
resources development.     The estimated amount of these contracts i s less than US$lOO,OOO each.
Consultants with the most appropriate qualifications and references may be selected from a short-list
based on requested expression of interest from qualified firms, all in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of
the Bank Guidelines. The aggregate amount of these contracts procured through SBCQ procedures i s
US$0.30 million.

         Single-SourceSelection. As an exception, the selection of the consulting firm to carry out the
socio-economic impact assessment of the project would be hired through single-sourcing, to ensure


                                                  - 67 -

 continuity with the comprehensive socioeconomic baseline study being carried out under the ongoing
 Land Titling Project. This would be a small assignment, with an estimated cost or around US$0.20
 million, where a unique qualification and experience i s required for achieving the goals of the impact
 assessment. Single-source selection would needprevious Bank approval.

      Individual Consultants: The selection of individual consultants will be based on their qualifications
 for the assignment (Section V; paras. 3.1 to 3.4 of the latest Guidelines). They shall be selected through
 comparison of qualification of at least three candidates among those who have been approached directly
 by the Borrower. In addition, on an exceptional basis, they may be selected on a sole-source basis with
 due justification, which would require previous Bank approval. The total cost for individual consultants
 i s not expected to exceed US$0.53 million, and this will include a Project Implementation Advisor.

 4.       Trainingand Workshops


      Expenses for training and workshops supported under the project will be performed and disbursed
 with prior approval of IDA based on annual implementation plans. The aggregate cost of training
 activities and workshops is estimated at about US$1.54 million. These would be procured according to
 normal commercial procedures acceptable to the Bank, and the procedures will be spelled out in the
 Procurement Operation Manual.
 5.       TitleDevelopment

 A total value of US$7.57 million has been estimated for expenditures related landtitling, landrecording,
 community education and services and information management, including transport costs and field
 allowances of adjudication teams, contractual staff employed by the adjudication teams, training,
 materials used in adjudication and surveying, and gasoline and vehicle maintenance incurred by the
 adjudication teams. As under the LTP, these will be procured according to normal commercial
 procedures acceptable to the Bank, and these procedures will be spelled out in the Procurement
 Operation Manual. Govemment staff on leave without pay are not eligible for contractual positions under
 the project.


 6.       Incremental OperatingCosts

      About US$2.53 million i s the total estimated cost for the incremental operating costs incurred by the
central offices and the provincial offices implementing the project. The incremental operating costs will
include payments for utilities, rental, transportation, subsistence, vehicles and motorbikes maintenance,
office equipment maintenance, fuel, e-mail connection fees, office supplies, etc. Procurement for these
services will follow government regulation in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
IDA.Services of permanent government staff and public sector employees will not be coveredby the IDA
credit under any circumstance.




                                                    - 68 -

  Procurementmethods(Table A)


                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                                 (US$ millionequivalent)




1. Works                                         0.00               0.90              0.10            0.00          1.oo
                                                (0.00)             (0.8 1)           (0.09)           (0.00)       (0.90)
2. Goods                                         0.79               0.00              0.88            0.00          1.67
                                                (0.79)             (0.00)            (0.85)          (0.00)        (1.64)
3. Services                                     0.00                0.00              2.77            6.84          9.61
(Consulting Services)                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.44)          (0.00)        (2.44)
4. Training and Workshops                       0.00                0.00               1.54           0.00          1.54
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.54)          (0.00)        (1.54)
5. Title DevelopmentCost                         0.00               0.00              7.57            0.00          7.57
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.59)          (0.00)        (6.59)
6. IncrementalOperationsCost                     0.00               0.00              2.53            0.00          2.53
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.71)          (0.00)        (1.71)
    Total                                        0.79               0.90              15.39           6.84         23.92
                                                (0.79)              (0.81)           (13.22)          (0.00)       (14.82)
  "Figures inparentheses are the amounts to befinanced by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

  *IIncludes civil works and goods to beprocured through small works, international and national shopping, consulting
    services, financing of contractual personnel(as consultants) to support the project managementoffice, training,
    technical assistance services, title developmentcosts, and incremental operating costsrelated to managingthe
    project.




                                                          - 69 -

                        Table A1: ConsultantSelection Arrangements (optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)




1\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality-and Cost-BasedSelection
                 QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-CostSelection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individualconsultants (per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines),Commercial
                 Practices,etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figuresin parenthesesare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                  - 70 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
   Table B indicates the thresholds for prior review. IDA will conduct prior review of procurement
   documents and actions in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of Appendix 1to the
   Procurement guidelines for:

        All works contracts procured through NCB costing more than or equal to US$50,000 per
        contract, and the first contract of small works under price comparison for each year;

        All goods contracts procured through ICB and the first goods contract per year procured through
        shopping; and

        All consulting contracts for firms under single-source selection and all the contracts costing more
        than or equal to US$lOO,OOO per contract, as well as all contracts above US$50,000 for
        individuals.

   The total amount of contracts/procurement processes subject to prior review i s US$4.08 million, or
   24 percent of the value of the contracts under IDA financing (28% of the IDA credit amount).




                                                    -71 -

                 Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                  Contract Value                                            ContractsSubject to
                                     Threshold                                                   Prior Review
                                  (US$thousands)                                                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                                 >50                           NCB                   All contracts (0.90);

                                         <50                       Small Works                Firstcontract to be
                                                                                           Drocured Per year (0.05).
2. Goods                                 >50                            ICB                   All contracts (0.79)


                                         <50                           Isms                 The first contract to be
                                                                                            procuredby year (0.10)
3. Services(Consu1ting
Services)

a. Firms                                 >loo                          QCBS                   All contracts (1.74)

                                         All                      Single-source               All contracts (0.20)

                                         <loo                            CQ                          None


b. Individual                            >50                Competitionby comparison          All contracts (0.30)
                                                            of qualifications (minimum
                                                                       3 CVs)

                                         <50                     Same as above                       None

                                         All                        Sole-source                All contracts (not
                                                                                                   foreseen)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contractssubject to prior review: US$4.08 million (24% of the total value of
                                                                          contracts and 28% of the IDA credit)
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:             High
    Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:               One every 4 months for the first year and
                                                                          one every six months thereafter months
                                                                          (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                          for post-review/audits)
Proposed post review ratio:
Considering the highvolume of sub-projects and the risk of the project: 1in 5 contracts duringthe first
supervision (iffound satisfactory - reduce to 1to in 10contracts in the next supervision and thereafter).

I\
 Thresholds generallydiffer by country andproject. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact theRegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.


                                                    - 72 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC: Second Land Titling Project

Financial Manapement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

Country Issues. The CFAA has been prepared by IDA and the report was shared with the government in
mid-2002. The overall fiduciary risk in Lao PDR i s considered to be high. Despite the fact that there are
some built-in controls within the government's financial management system, there i s insufficient
transparency related to public finances and the general attitude towards fiscal lscipline i s not strong.
The budget process i s not yet adequately transparent and public access to government financial
information i s limited. These weaknesses are compounded by an inadequate awareness of modern
practices of internal control in the public sector. While an elaborate control system i s in place, involving
many pre-approval and checking processes, it needs to be made more effective. The government's
decentralization initiative needs to be supported with a sufficiently robust institutional framework that
clearly defines the new responsibilities at lower levels.Technica1 capacity of staff at these levels needs to
be strengthened. The oversight functions and the National Auditor Office need to be strengthened. The
accounting and auditing profession and institutions remain undeveloped. To address these deficiencies,
the government has agreed to implement several recommendations of the PER and CFAA. The Financial
Management Capacity Building project, as well as the government initiative supported by ADB, are
expected to bringthe fiduciary riskto an acceptable level.

RiskAnalysis. Fiduciary risks relating to financial management and the internal controlframework were
identified and would be mitigated through the measures proposed under the program mentioned above.
Those risks include low salary and compensation levels of civil servants, which make it difficult to attract
and retain well qualified and motivated staff. The financial management system for externally funded
projects remains weak and needs substantial improvement. A number of key issues and weaknesses
regarding the Bank-funded projects were identified: (i)inconsistent and inadequate financial
management standards, procedures and software in project implementation units; (ii)        delays to project
implementation resulting from management of Special Accounts by MOF; (iii)        delayed audit and lack of
consistent external audit standards and procedures; (iv) project implementation units' accounting
departments that have been poorly staffed and equipped at start-up; (v) poor internal control procedures
and absence of internal audit in line agencies; and (vi) lack of financial management capacity at
provincial and district levels. Given the risk-mitigation measures being proposed, these risks are
considered to be manageable.

Implementing Entity. During project pre-appraisal (February 2003) and appraisal (May 2003), IDA
reviewed the proposed financial management and disbursement arrangements, including accounting,
financial reporting, auditing and fund flow for the project. IDA also assessed the existing financial
management capacity of the on-going Land Titling Project (CR.2832-LA) to ensure its capacity and
systems would provide an adequatebasis for the implementation of the proposed project.

The organization of the proposed LTPIIwill be established takmg into account the ongoing restructuring
of the Department of Lands ( DOL). The Land Titling Project Office (LTPO) established under the first
project will be merged within Department of Land ( DOL) and its staff transferred to DOL. Existing staff
within LTPO will be transferred to the Planning and Finance Division (PFD) to be created in the new
structure of DOL to carry out the functions of project support management, including planning,
budgeting, procurement, financial management and disbursement, coordination between IDA and
bilateral donors, monitoring and reporting. The PFD will be responsible for overseeing overall financial


                                                    - 73 -

management functions for the project. It would ensure flow of funds to all components within the
responsibility of MOF, as well as across other ministries and associated institutions, supervise the
financial management of the central and provincial units, and be responsible for consolidating financial
reports and reporting to the government and to the Association.

Funds Flow. In the on-going Land Titling project, IDA funds flow to the project through a US$ Special
Account (SA) established with the BECL, a state-owned commercial bank. The SA i s managed by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). Major items valued more than US$2,000 are to be paid directly from the SA
located at MOF. In order to facilitate timely payments of project expenditures incurred by the provinces
and other national program units, sub-accounts in local currency with initial funds pre-financed by the
government were established in two participating implementing institutions (LWU and NGD), in
addition to the LTPO and 9 provinces. These 12 sub-accounts are maintainedinlocal KIPcurrency under
a certain ceiling depending on the number of responsible Surveying and Adjudication Teams (SATs) and
the one-month projected expenditures. However, the ceiling can be adjusted from time to time according
to realistic activities forecasts. These accounts are kept with either the Provincial Treasury Office or a
commercial bank depending on the capacity and efficiency of the Treasury Office in that province.
Eligible expenditures are paid from these accounts and when replenishment of these accounts occurs,
expenditures are split to be reimbursed from the SA and counterpart funds according to sharing portions.
The value to reimburse from SA i s converted into US$ equivalent based on the exchange rate of the first
day of that month. IDA has reviewed such procedures and found them to be acceptable. It has concluded
that the current system works well.

The proposed arrangements for the new project will be similar to the current arrangements described
above with some minor modifications, as follows:


0        A US dollars Special Account will be opened at the Central Bank of Lao PDR to receive the
project funds from IDA and will be exclusively used for the eligible portion of project expenditures. The
Special Account will be operated by and located at MOF.
0        The existing funds in sub-accounts under the LTP will continue to be used for the associated
institutions, i.e. NGD, LWU, and 9 project provinces, Le., Vientiane Municipality, and the provinces of
Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Xayabouly, Borikhamxay, Khammuane, Savannakhet, Saravane, and
Champassack.
0        Two additional sub-accounts in local currency with initial deposits also pre-financed by GOL
will be opened for the Department of National Land Use Planning and Development (DONLUPAD) and
the NationalPolytechnic School at commercial banks acceptable to IDA.
0        DONLUPAD will have a higher level of financial autonomy than the rest of participating
agencies, by having more authority than other sub-accounts' holders to approve expenditures for the
project component under its responsibility. The initial funds will also be pre-financed from GOL funds
and the ceiling of funds will be up to 90-days advance. It will be reviewed regularly to ensure liquidity of
funds.
0        DONLUPAD's capacity to manage its sub-account and maintain project records will be
strengthened by: (i)  hiring an additional accounting staff and one cashier to handle its project accounts;
and (ii) on-the-job training and continued support provided by PFD, through its staff and TA.
0        MOF's efficiency in managing the Special Account would have to be carefully managed, to
assess whether excessive overload i s causing delays in the flow of funds and slowing down
implementation progress.
0        PFD will have to improve its own financial management capacity, through staffing (staff number
as well as skdls mix), training, and enhancing its internal control systems, to enable itself to manage its
own SpecialAccount inthe future.


                                                   - 74 -

The proposed funds flow arrangements are presented inAttachment Iof this annex.

Insummary, under this new arrangement aUS$ SpecialAccount will be established and located at MOF.
Each associated institutionand province would operate at least a sub-account, for which the initial funds
are pre-financedby GOL. These accounts will be denominated in KIP local currency and will be used for
payment of regular expenditures. Eligible expenditures would be reimbursed from the SA according to
the respective percentages established in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). DONLUPAD will
have a higher level of funds pre-financed by GOL, corresponding to a 90 day implementation period
(estimated at US$lO,OOO). Other eligible expenditures above this limit will have to be paid directly from
the SA by PFDDOL. The Special Account will be with the National Bank of Lao PDR while the project
bank sub-accounts will be with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.

Staffing. Under the ongoing Land Titling Project, there are four accounting staff, two key professional
staff and two assistants, responsible for overall financial management functions. As there will be an
increased and diversified work load under the proposed project, the need for two more accounting staff
and one more cashier at the new PFD was identified. This additional staff in one of the key actions
included in the agreed Financial Management Action Plan. At provincial Planning and Finance Section
(PFS) level, the current staffing, two accounting staff including one for accounting and the other for
cashier, will remain the same.

Cash and Bank In order to ensure satisfactory internal control, authorization and payment functions at
the provincial PFSs and DONLWAD will be segregated and all transactions would be authorized by
authorized persons. All funds at the provincial level will be deposited with a local commercial bank. If
local banking facilities are not available in some provinces, arrangements for banlung should be made at
a nearby province where such facilities are available. The expenditure to be paid out of sub-accounts and
DONLUPAD sub-account will be clearly identifiedin the project FinancialManagement Manual.

Accounting System. Project records and accounts will be maintained centrally by the PFD of DOL. The
accounting system will be computerized and processed using an accounting software with specifications
acceptable to IDA. Supportingdocumentationwill be made available at PFD for subsequent audit by IDA
and independent external auditors.

The Financial Management and Administrative Procedures Manual, which describes the flow of funds,
responsibilities and delegations of authority, disbursement procedures, internal controls, the accounting
system and financial reporting already exists under the on-going Land Titling Project and it will be
applicable to the new project. However, it needs a few revisions mainly in the section on fund flows,
financial authority of DONLUPAD and other associated institution, accounting software and financial
reports for project monitoring.

The exiting M S Money accounting software i s outdated and incapable of generating the required
Financial Monitoring Reports and annual financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA. As the
existing software cannot be upgraded, it was agreed that the LTPO, using funds available under the first
project, will purchase and install a simple accounting software available off-the-shelf with specifications
acceptable to IDA, and hire a short-term expert to assist in designing and setting up the computerized
system, revisingthe manual and training accounting staff. Two more computers will be also required for
the new project.

Audit Arrangement. The latest audit report of the on-going Land Titling Project for the years 2001 and



                                                   - 75 -

2002 was audited by Accounting Service Co., Ltd, a local auditing firm. The audit opinions were clean
(unqualified). However, the 2001 Management Letter from the auditor indicates some weaknesses in the
project financial management system as follows: (i) i s no separation of duty between accountant
                                                       there
and cashier in the PFU of Khammuane Province; (ii)     some provinces only have one bank account at the
Provincial Treasury Office, which i s causing on-time cash flow problem; and (iii)     there i s inadequate
regular training of accounting staff worlung at PFUs. The 2002 Management Letter indicates certain
weaknesses in improper classification of project expenditures by disbursement category due to unclear
definitions, and in improper use and management of project vehicles and equipment. However, such
weaknesses were addressed and preventive actions will be introduced into the financial management
arrangements of the proposed LTP 11project.

An independent external auditor acceptable to the Association will be appointed to audit the project
financial statements on an annual basis. According to the results of the recent peer review by IDA,
auditors acceptable to the Association are limited to certain firms. The selected auditor will have to be
acceptable to the Association.

 Impactof ProcurementArrangements.Overall Procurement Riskhas been assessed as High.The
 proposed frequency of procurement supervision missions by IDA i s once every four months duringthe
 first year, and once every six months for the years thereafter, including special procurement supervision
 for post-review/audits. The threshold for Prior Review will be as follows:
0        all works contracts procured through NCB costing more than or equal to US$50,000, and the first
contract of small works under price comparisonfor each year;
0        all goods contracts procured through ICB and IAPSO, and the first goods contract per year
procured through shopping; and
0        all consulting contracts costing more than or equal to US$lOO,OOO for firms, the first consultant
contract for each year, and all contracts above US$50,000 for individuals.

Reporting and Monitoring. All IDA-financed projects appraised from January 1, 2002 are required to
provide the Association with Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The project has to develop a
reporting system which reports regularly and more frequently following an agreed format that helps
management for timely monitoring and decision-making, and meets IDA and other statutory/donors
reporting requirements. The format of the reports will have to be agreed with IDA duringNegotiations.
Duringappraisal of the project, the format has been discussed andagreed.

For LTP 11, the FMRs will be prepared quarterly and submitted to the Association within 45 days after
the end of each quarter. The annual financial statements are subject to audit by an external auditor
acceptable to the Association. The audited annual financial statements shall be submitted to the Bank
annually within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.

Action Plan. In order to ensure that the project financial management and disbursement arrangements
are in place before the project starts, the following Financial Management Action Plan has been agreed
with the borrower to improve the system and meet IDA minimumrequirements:




                                                   - 76 -

incialManagementAction Plan
 Actions                                                     Responsibility   2ompleted By
ieporting andMonitoring
Iomplete and agree on the design format for the Financial DOL                 Condition for
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) acceptableto IDA.                                   Negotiations
                                                                              (Comuleted)
?rojectFinancial ManagementSystem
%ring of a short-term expert to assist in developing a
:omputerized accounting system and revising the financial    DOL              June 15,2003
md administration manual.
With the help of the consultant, DOL shall:
 . Complete the development of the accounting system
 with chart of account capable to capture project DOL/consultant              July 30,2003
 expenditures by provinces, components, disbursement and
 procurementcategory, andfunding sources;
 . Establishacomputerized financial management system,
 including accounting software capable to generate quarterly
 Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and annual financial    DOWconsultant    Effectiveness
 statements, all acceptableto IDA.
 Project Financial Management
 Complete and adopt a project Financial Manual satisfactory DOLMOF            Effectiveness
 to the Association. The manual should describe operating
 and accounting procedures for procurements, funds flows,
 resuonsibilities and authorities, disbursement, internal
 controls, accounting systemandfinancial reporting
Staffing and Training
zomplete staffing Gangements in the PFD-DOL, in adequatl DOL                  Effectiveness
lumber and with mix of skilled and experienced staff whc
inderstand the relevant accounting concepts and govemmen
,egulations,as follows:                                                       Effectiveness
     At PFD: Appoint at least 2 accounting staff and 1cashie DOL
o work on project accounting, treasury and monitoring o
jrovincial accounting functions;
     At DONLUPAD: Appoint 1 accounting staff and on DONLUPAD                  Effectiveness
:ashier,   responsible  for    managing    sub-accounts anc
naintaining projectrecords and documentation;
    Provide project financial management training to a1 WB/ DOL/              Effectiveness
,elevantDroiect staff.                                      IONLUPAD
External Audit:
 Appoint an independent auditing f i i acceptable to the DOL                  June 30,2004
 Association to uerform annual audits of uroiect financial
 statements accorkng to TOR acceptableto    bk




                                                  - 77 -

Supervision plan. The supervision of the project will include close monitoring of the financial
management related aspects implemented by the PFDDOL. Quarterly F M R s are to be submitted to IDA
within 45 days after the end of each quarter. IDA supervision i s planned at least once every four months
duringthe first year of the project, and twice a year thereafter.


2. Audit Arrangements

DOL will be responsible for ensuring that the annual financial statements are audited and forwarded to
IDA. The audits will be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association to perform
the audit under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Audits will be financed from the credit proceeds.
As discussed above, the audit environment in Lao PDR is weak: therefore a qualified private
international auditing firm should be selected to conduct the audit of the project according to
international auditing standards. This auditing firm will have to be acceptable to IDA and selected
through a competitive process following IDA'Sprocurement guidelines.

The auditor will be required to express opinions on: (i)  The project financial statements; (ii) the
                                                                                              whether
Special Account funds have been correctly accounted for and used in accordance with the Credit
Agreement; and (iii)    the adequacy of supporting documents and controls surrounding the use of the
Statements of Expenditures as a basis for disbursements. The management letter addressing internal
control of the project i s required in addition to basic opinion on the financial statements. The audited
financial statements and management letter will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of
each fiscal year.

3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on the existing system (from the SpecialAccount
with reimbursements made based on full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE),
and direct payments from the Credit Account). The proposed Credit will be disbursed against the project
components shown in Table C. It i s expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a
periodof 5 years.




                                                   - 78 -

 Allocationof credit proceeds(Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategory               I Amount  in US$million   I         FinancingPercentage
 1.Works                                                0.81                      90% of expenditures
 2. Goods                                               1.47                  100% of foreign expenditures
                                                                            and ex-factory local expenditures.
                                                                             90% of other local expenditures
                                                                                     procured locally.
 Consulting Services                                    2.20                      88% of expenditures
 Training & Workshops                                   1.39                      100% of expenditures
 Title Development Costs                                5.93                       87% of expenditures
 Incremental Operating Cost                             1.54              100% for obligations incurred prior to
                                                                            September 30,2005; and 50% for
                                                                             oblieations incurred thereafter
 Unallocated                                            1.48
 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing               14.82
 Total                                                 14.82


 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the Credit are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure as follows: (i)  civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii)   goods
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (iii)    service contracts for individual consultants
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each and service contracts for firms costing less than
US$lOO,OOO      equivalent each; (iv) training and workshops; (v) title development costs; and (vi)
incremental operating costs.

Disbursements for services and goods exceeding the above limits will be made in accordance with
respective procurement guidelines and provisions in the Credit Agreement against submission of full
documentation and signed contracts.

The documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by PFDDOL and PFSDOL during
the life of the project and one year after the receipt of the audit report for the last year in which the last
disbursement was made. These documents will be made available for review by the auditors and IDA
supervision missions. The SOE documents will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. Should the auditors or IDA supervision missions findthat disbursements have been made that are
not justified by supporting documentation, or are ineligible, IDA will have the right to withhold further
deposits to the Special Account. IDA may exercise this right until the Borrower has refunded the amount
involved or (if the Association agrees) has submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that offset
the ineligible amounts.

Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation and credit disbursement, a US$ Special Account (SA) will be
established on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA including appropriate protection against set off,


                                                    - 79 -

seizure and attachments. The account will be denominated in US dollars and located at MOF. The
Special Account, which will cover the IDA share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories,
will have an authorized allocation of US$l,OOO,OOO with an initial withdrawal of US$700,000 equivalent
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the SA. The average disbursement for the
entire implementation period i s around $250,000 per month, therefore the initial deposit corresponds to
about a three-month average disbursement period (since this operation i s a follow up of the ongoing first
LTP, the level of disbursements would be significant from effectiveness). When'the amounts withdrawn
from the Credit totals US$5,000,000 equivalent (around SDR 3.5 million), the initial withdrawal will be
increased to the authorized allocation of $1 million. This authorized allocation would represent about a
four-month average disbursement period, which would be needed when the project reaches its peak
disbursement rate (probably around years 2 to 4). The Special Account should be replenished on a
monthly basis to assure liquidity of funds or when the account is drawn down by 20 percent of the initial
deposit, whichever comes first. All replenishment applications will be accompanied by reconciled bank
statements from the depository bank showing all transactions in the Special Account. The Special
Account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.




                                                  - 80 -

                                                          Attachment 1
                                                       Chartof fund flow

             II                        LANDTITLING I1 PROJECT
                                        CHARTOFFLOW OFFUND



                                                                                    Initialdepositbythe
                                                                                     Government (pre-
                                                                                         financing)

                  Replenishment                             II
                  & Commitment                            Budget
               ic A                                     Allncntinn




                SA (CentralBankof
                    Lao PDR)
                  ($1,700,000.00)
                      (MOW
               I                     I             INITIALDEPOSIT                                 1
                                              (Pre-financingby Government)                  REPLENISHMENT
                                                                                           (9%GOLcontribution)




                                                              GOLSub Accounts
             -        REPLENISHMENT                       4 Institutions 9 Provinces
                                                                       +
                    (% of BankFinancing)                (Any agreedcommercialbank )


                               Reconciliation& Docfor
                              rcplcnjshmentaccordingto
                                 'Z of Bankfinancing



       Disbursement
         I


Narrative Description:Opening of the sub-accounts and deposit by the Government of the first (initial)
funds adequate to cover expenditure for two-three months. Then, each participating agency
(DONLUPAD, NGD,LWU, PS) and PFS ineach project province could use the funds (initial deposit) to
start implementation and send in documentation to PFD-DOL to request replenishment. IDA'Sshare of
the expenditure can be replenished from the parent SA. Once the PFD-DOL has approved and made
payment, it can forward a summary of several claims under a single applications to IDA.




                                                      -81 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
         LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Preparation Report including detailed Implementation Plan and Procurement Plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document (PCD)
 PCD MeetingMinutes
 PCD Safeguard MeetingMinutes

 Draft Project Appraisal Document
 Decision MeetingMinutes
 Appraisal Safeguard MeetingMinutes

C. Other
Social Assessment Report
 Worlung Paper on Land Policy
 Assessment of the FirstLand Titling Project
 RuralLandTenure Study
 Identification Mission Report
 Preparation Mission Report
 Pre-appraisal Mission Report
 Appraisal Mission Report
 Project InformationDocument
 Environmental and Social Guidelines

*Including electronic files




                                                  - 83 -

                                          Annex 9: Statementof Loansand Credits
                   LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Second LandTitling Project
                                                              21-Mav-2003
                                                                                                                     Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                  OriainalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO68069      2002 LA-Fin MngtAdj Cr (FMAC)                        000      1700                  0 00    0 00   11.45       14.41       0.00
PO77326      2002 LA-PovertyReductionFund Project                 000      1934                  0 00    0 00   20.64        -030       0.00
PO77620      2002 LA-Fin. ManagementCapacityBuildingCr.           000       8 50                 0 00    0 00     9.17       0.16       0 00
PO65973      2001 LA-AgriculturalDevelopmentProject               000      1669                  0 00    0 00   17.71        -0.77      0.00
PO64821      2001 LA-RoadMaintenance                              000      2500                  0 00    0 00   12.92        -0.75      0.00
PO59305      1999 LA DiST UPLANDDEV                               0 00      2 00                 0 00    0 00     0.06       0.16       0.14
PO42237      1999 LA-Provin.InIrast.                              000      2780                  0 00    0 00   12.83        5.84       0.00
PO44973      1998 LA-SOUTHERNPROVINCE RE                          000      3470                  0 70    0 00     9.99       5.49       0.w
PO04210      1997 LA-HWY Improv.lll                               000      4800                  0 00    0 00    2.55        4.94       0.00
PO04208      1996 LA-LANDTITLING                                  000      2073                  0 00    000      962       1008        504
PO04200      1995 LA-HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM& M                        0.00     19.20                 0 00    000      590        746        659

                                                       Total:    000      23896                0 70      000    11285       4671       1177




                                                                 - 84 -

                        LAO PEOPLESDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                   STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                      Jun 30 - 2002
                                    InMillions US Dollars

                                                     Committed                       Disbursed
                                                   IFC                             IFC
FY Approval   Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998          SEFBAFCO                       0.77     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998          SEFEndeavor                    0.15     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998100       SEFSettha                      0.18     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001          SEF Villa Santi                1.15     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15   0.00    0.00  0.00
                     TotalPortfolio:         2.25     0.00     0.00   0.00     2.25   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                 ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic
2002          Sepon                            12.00      4.00     0.00     17.50
2002          UABLRiverBarge                   15.00      5.00     5.00     21.00
2002          SalutiaRI                         0.00      0.00     0.33     0.00
2001          MSFBLINC                          0.00      0.00     0.00     10.00

              TotalPendingCommitment:          27.00      9.00     5.33     48.50




                                           - a5 -

                                                      Annex 10: Country at a Glance
              LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project
                                                                                   East
  POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                  Lao        Asia &       LOW-
                                                                     PDR         Pacific   income           Developmentdiamond'
  2001
  Population,mid-year (millions)                                      5 3          1,826     2,511                          Life expectancy
  GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  320           900        430
  GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                      1 7         1,649     1,069                                 T
  Average annual growth, 1995-01
  Population("A)                                                      2 5            1 1        1 9
  Labor force (77)                                                    2 3            1 3        2 3         GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                            per                                    primary
  Most recent estimate(latest year avallable, 1995-01)                                                      capita                               nrollment
  Povelty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty/he)
  Urbanpopulation(77 of totalpopulation)                               24            37         31
 Life expectancyat birth(years)                                        54            69         59                                 L
                                                                       93            36         76
                                                                                     12                           Access to improvedwater source
 Accessto an improvedwater source (7/0 ofpopulation)                   90            74         76
 Illiteracy(77ofpopulationage 1%)                                      50            14         37
 Grossprimaryenrollment (77 ofschool-agepopu/ation)                   112            107        96                  ---Lao       PDR
     Male                                                             123            106       103                           Low-incomegroup
     Female                                                           101           106         88

  KEYECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1981       1991          2000       2001           Economic ratios.
 GDP (US$blliions)                                                     1 0           1 7        1.8
  GrossdomesticinvestmenUGDP                                                       21 8        22 1
  Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                                     130                                                        Trade
  Grossdomesticsaving
  Grossnationalsavings
 Current account balance/GDP                                         -10 8          -85        -6 1
  InterestpaymentdGDP                                                 0 3            0 5        0 6         Domestic                           Investment
 TotaldebUGDP                                                       1825           1462      1417           savings

 Totaldebt service/exports                                            6 3            7 7        7 9
 Presentvalue of debUGDP                                                           70 6
  Presentvalueof debffexports                                                     228 9
                                                                                                                              indebtedness
                                          1981-91 1991-01            2000          2001    2001-05
 (average annualgrowth)
 GDP                                           4 1          6 5       5 6            5 7        5.0                   --*Lao      PDR
 GDP Der caolta                                1 7          3 8       3 4            3 3        2.6                    __ Low-incomegroup
 EXDO~~Sof ooods and services
            -                                                                                                                                             I
  ~




 STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                          1981       1991          2000       2001         1 Growth  of investment and GDP(%)
 (77ofGDP)
 Agricuiture                                                         56.2          52.8        50.9
  Industry                                                            16.8         23.0        23.4
    Manufacturing                                                     12.5          17.1       17.7
 Services                                                             25.0         24.2        25.7
                                                                                                                      ~             ~       I     ~     ~




  Privateconsumption                                                                              ..
                                                                                                           ~        98       97    98      99    00    01
 Generalgovernmentconsumption
  Importsof goods andservices                                         25.2                                               -->GO1          -OI"GDP


                                                       1981-91 1991-01             2000       2001
  (averageannualgrowth)
 Agriculture                                                3.3       5.1            4.9        3.6
 Industry                                                   8.3       10.5           8.5        9.7
    ManufadUring                                            11.4      11.8
 Services                                                   3.8      20.5            4.9        4.4

 Privateconsumption
 Generalgovernment consumption
 Grossdomesticinvestment
 Importsof goods and services
~       ~~




 Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
 *The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.if data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete




                                                                               - 86 -

                                                                                                        Lao PDR

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1981 1991    2000    2001
Domesticprices
p/.change)
Consumerprices                                        27.1    8.0
Implicit GDP deflator                         13.2    23.8    9.9
Governmentfinance
p/.ofGDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                       18.2    18.3             98      97     98    99     00    01
Current budgetbalance                                  9.8    8.8
Overall surpluddeficit                                -5.3    -5.0            -+-"-mGDP deflator   +CPI


TRADE                                                                                                             I
                                        1981 1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                                 and Import levels(US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   351     350
 Wood products                                        120
 Agriculture                                           13
 Manufactures                                          88
Total imports (cif)                                   569     558
  Food
  Fueland energy
                                                                                                                   I
 Capital goods                                         74
Exportprice index (1995=100)                                                95   96     97    98    99    w

Importprice index (1995=100)                                                        5i Exports      W Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                      O1



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1981 1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                      I Current  account balanceto GDP(%)             I
Exportsof goodsand services                    133    515     536     0
Importsof goodsand services                   253     808     598
Resourcebalance                               -120    -93     -62      5

Net income                                      -1    -73     -68
Net current transfers                           10     21      22    -10

Currentaccountbalance                         -111   -145    -108    -15
Financingitems (net)                           143    189     106
Changesin net reserves                    8    -32    -44        2   -20
Memo:
Reservesincluding gold (US$millions)
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)          20.0 702.5 7,887.6 8,900.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981 1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                         :omposition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed      390  1,875  2,502   2,495
  IBRD                                    0     0        0       0
  IDA                                    11    147    403     415
Total debt service                        2     9      41      44
  IBRD                                    0     0        0       0
  IDA                                     0      1       7       7
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                        15    54     135
  Officialcreditors                      54    101     59      77
  Privatecreditors                        0     0       0        0
  Foreigndirect investment                0     7      72
  Portfolioequity                         0     0       0
World Bank program
  Commitments                             0    85       0      42     \   IBRD                        E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           5    15      20      31     3 --      D Other multilateral
                                                                                   -                  F Private
  Principalrepayments                     0     0       4       4     > - IDA
                                                                          IMF                         G Short-term
                                                                                                       ---
  Netflows                                5    15      17      27
  Interestpayments                        0     1       3        3
  Net transfers                           5    14      14      24




                                                  - 87 -

                  Additional Annex 11:Community Educationand Services
          LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATICREPUBLIC: Second Land Titling Project

Introduction

The social and gender issues relevant to this project are discussed in Section 6 of the PAD. Some of the
challenges raised that need to be addressed include i)reducing the risks of project negative impacts on
the poor, ii)working effectively with mass organizations, iii)increasingthe understanding of women and
the poor with regard to their rights and entitlements under the law, and under the project rules; iii)
protecting the rights of ethnic groups, iv) increasing accountability, and v) helping communities to
manage potential disputes. The following section identifies the actions and procedures that will make the
project respond to these aspects.

The main change that needs to be made i s to considerably strengthen the community focus and
demand-responsiveness of the project. All members of the community need to i)be included in the
activities, ii)be given access to information, iii)have the opportunity to make informed choices, iv) have
the ability to access further information as they need it, and v) have a channel for complaints, feed-back,
and to provide input to policy-malung. Organizational structures, procedures, capacity buildingactivities,
and monitoringneeds to ensure that this happens. It requires changes throughout all of the components to
bring about a change of approach of this nature. Most significantly the procedures for CES
accompanying registration and titling will need to be changed. The lessons learned from the first project
and proposed revised design of CES activities are summarized below.

Social and Environmental Guidelines have been prepared and are included in the project's files. The
adoption of these guidelines by the Minister of Finance i s a condition for negotiation.

Review of Social IssuesUnder the first LandTitling Project

The CRS component under LTP focused on public dissemination of information about land titling to
people whose land was being titled. The work of the LWUin disseminating information to community
members was a crucial part of this work.

Under the first project, three studies were undertaken which provided considerable information on the
social issues arising from the project, the CRS approach and its limitations and on how to improve the
way social and gender issues are addressedin PhaseII.

    The LandTenure and Forest Boundaries Study (May 2002) investigated the issuingof land titles
    outside urban areas. It made several recommendations in relation to how best to treat customary land
    use rights, including communal, individual and family rights, and ensure that any adverse effects on
    these traditional land tenure systems are minimized. It recommended measures to be taken in issuing
    land titles in forest lands, recommended procedures for identifying forest lands in project areas and
    identified situations or circumstances where land titling in rural areas should not be undertaken or
    should be delayed untila later stage of land policy clarificationand development.

    The Social Assessment Survey (August 2002) sought to understand the situation of potential
    beneficiaries o f the project, identify positive and negative impacts of the project, particularly on
    vulnerable groups such as women and ethnic groups, and review the project components so that
    improvements could be made to minimize the negative impacts and enhance the benefits of the
    project for those groups.


                                                   - 88 -

   The LWU/CRS Survey (January 2003) drew on research conducted in 7 districts in the Vientiane
   Prefecture. It sought to evaluate the CRS approach and implementation, evaluate land users'
   understanding of the CRS/GAD process, evaluate cooperation between the CRS unit and the LWU
   and identify ways to improve the CRS approach.

LessonsLearnedfrom the first Land Titling Project

   Relationship between L W U and DOL. The LWU receives its budget from the central PSU. The
   nine provincial LWUdivisions involved in the project received a total of US$3,200 for their March
   2002-March 2003 budget with one province receivingno money at all. Activities that were calledfor,
   mandated and approved remained unfunded. Financial support for the LWU was particularly
   problematic in regard to per diems to carry out community-based activities. The need has been
   identified for dialogue between the DOL and the LWU at the provincial and district levels to be
   continuous and routine, as without such high level cooperation, little support for CRS activities can
   be expected throughout the project as a whole.

   Monitoring and Evaluation.         There has been a lack of consistency in the CRS approach,
   particularly with regards to how information i s disseminated. With no meaningful system of
   monitoring in place, there has been no mechanism for leaming from best practice and ensuring
   consistency in CRS implementation. It was observed in the workshops that some units have used
   CRS/GAD activities to improperly gain personal benefits. Some village authorities and SAT have not
   created opportunities for women to participate in adjudication or surveys. Such problems and
   inconsistencies need to be identified through a system of M&E so that they can be addressed
   effectively. M&E should include field reporting systems and a set of critical indicators against which
   activities are assessed.

   Information and Dissemination. There is a need for the materials produced under CRS to be
   improved so that more relevant information i s communicated more effectively to stakeholders.
   Materials should be reviewed and tested for audience verification of greater appeal and higher level
   of retained information. In particular, the demand for information on land law and land rights,
   particularly for women, was identified. There must also be an improvement in the technique and
   modalities of dissemination of informationregarding the land titling project to communities.

   Planning and coordination of activities. Forward planning processes are required in order to
   enable greater team efforts towards the goals of the project. Understanding of planning andbudgeting
   methodology i s weak across the project and this affects the impact of CRS. Activities need to be
   plannedon a semi-annual basis and a standard operations procedure developed to guide activities and
   provide for consistency in implementation. All policies and procedures with regard to CRS should
   exist in written and accessible form. Clarification of the roles of those involved in CRS would assist
   in effective implementation of community activities. The responsibility for work, the authority to act,
   the resources to carry out programs and the coordination of activities needto be clearly defined. Such
   roles should take into account the need for CRS activities to be decentralized.

   Community participation. Overwhelmingly, it was recognized that women have a vital role to play
   in Community Education and should be more fully engaged in interventions at an earlier stage of
   land titling activities. Furthermore, community participation as a whole needs to be strengthened so
   that meaningful two way participation exists from the outset of the project.




                                                 - 89 -

     Staffing and Training. Continuous training i s required in CRS for all those involved in the project.
     Many land users and village authorities remain uncertain about titling issues and the project's gender
     policy. Training is also a way of addressing inconsistencies in implementation. Staff recruited in
    D O L to work on community participation, education and service provision need to be recruited in a
     transparent and merit-based manner.

Community Education and Services (CES) under LTP I1

Drawing on the lessons learned from the first project, an improved strategy, CES will be implemented in
LTP II.The new title emphasizes the need to focus on communities, and highlights the educational
aspects of the strategy as well as the need to provide services and allow for greater participation. The
details of CES are to be found in the CES Strategy and Operations Manual developed during project
pre-implementation.

CES i s a crucial element of all aspects of the project. In addition to the CES sub-components in
Components 3 and 4, CES i s integral to all components. InComponent 1, community consultations are to
be undertaken by DONLUPAD; this will require inputs from both the CES staff and LWU. Information
and analysis resulting from CES operations in the field will also inform the land policy formulation
process. Institutionaldevelopment (Component 2) includes training and HR development. CES training
and information will be provided to project staff and be an integral part of the Polytechnic School's
courses. The new structure of D O L will need to ensure that clear lines of accountability and
responsibility exist for CES in an integrated manner and that all related job descriptions for CES staff
and their supervisors include these responsibilities.

The objectives of the CES activities are:
 i)toincreasetheunderstandingofcommunities,especiallywomenandnormallymarginalizedgroups,of
their land rights and entitlements, and of the benefits and risks of holding or usingland title; and
ii)to support the development of the capacity ofthe institutionsfor thetransparent andresponsive
provision of services, especially to the poor and normally marginalized groups, and be held accountable
for this by the beneficiaries.

Organization and Staflng

The importance attached to CES in the project needs to be significantly increased and reflected in the
organization and staffing levels. Inparticular, the second project will focus more on institutionalizing the
responsibility for CES within DOL. The LWUwill act as a partner in the project to help facilitate village
level activities and ensure that the services reach women and the poorest families. The LWUshould also
be strengthened and supported so that their long term capacity to provide advisory services to women on
land issues is improved, and that their capacity to participate in discussions on land policy as
representatives of women i s enhanced. The M o U with the LWU will need to be revised to reflect this,
and their inclusionintraining and other institutional and capacity development activities specified.

Below i s a general outline for CES activities under the project. Prior to effectiveness, a consultant will
prepare a detailed manual for CES activities. The adoption of the CES Operations Manual by DOL i s a
condition for Credit effectiveness. In addition, technical assistance to support implementation activities
will be provided periodically throughout the project, especially in the early years, under the Technical
Assistance component.




                                                    - 90 -

Four Elementsof the CES Strategy

The proposed strategy has four main areas of activity:
A.       Community mapping and participation
B.       Information, Education, Communication
C.       Advisory services for title holders
D.       Monitoring andEvaluation

A. Community Mapping and Participation
The community mapping activity will take place in each village. The purpose is to improve transparency
and involve communities in the process at an early stage in helping to identify potential problems and
address these jointly.     The community mapping will identify, for example, the poor or especially
vulnerable families, people whose land i s surrounded and may be vulnerable to loosing access if their
land i s blocked in, ethnic groups, land disputes, and so on. Training in community mapping techniques
will be provided to all involved prior to commencement inthe field.

B. Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
A strategy for IEC is beingdeveloped under the current project. These activities will entail more than the
one-off production of posters and radio or TV campaigns. The IEC activities will seek to improve the
communities understanding of their land rights and entitlements using different media and experiences.
The staff at the central level with specific responsibility for IEC will be trained so that the project
develops their internal capacity to produce materials and disseminate information in appropriate ways.
Special emphasis will be on finding ways to reach the poorest members of the community, and the focus
will be on mitigating any potential negative impacts of the project as well as providing information on
the benefits of land titling. In addition to materials produced at the central level, the central staff will act
as facilitators to encourage provincial CES staff to develop new and appropriate ways to improve
informationand communication.

IEC informationwill also include post project rights and obligations such as the hndof services that will
be available in the long term at the District or Provincial land offices, and the need to regster all future
landtransactions.

C.Advisory Servicesfor Land TitleHolders
Inorder to ensure the longterm success of the project it is essential that all landtransactions and changes
of ownership are registered in the future. Interaction with communities must continue in the long term,
after adjudication teams have moved on so that the benefits of land titling can be felt, and the registration
system can be kept up to date.         Activities will include liaising with legal departments, financial
institutions, etc, and developing two way links between them and the communities. Continued contact
with key people such as the village heads and the LWU will be essential to maintain the incentives to
update registrations.

D.Monitoring and Evaluation
The CES strategy will monitor the effectiveness of the strategy itself, as well as working with
communities to monitor the project from their perspective. The monitoring activities undertaken under
this part would include the following:
i)participatorymonitoringofprojectimplementation:
ii)complaintshandlingprocedures,
iii)casestudies,



                                                     -91 -

iv) monitoringof specific CES implementation indicationors

The CES M&Eactivities need to be fully integrated into the overall M&Eframework for the project. TA
will be provided under the project to develop the overall project M&Eframework.




                                                  - 92 -

                         Additional Annex 12: EnvironmentalAnalysis
          LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATICREPUBLIC: Second LandTitling Project

Introduction

The purpose of the environmental analysis i s to identify and assess how land titling could facilitate, or
possibly hinder, the achievement of environmentally sustainable development in the urban and peri-urban
context of Lao PDR. It i s important to recognize that the nature of the Environmental Analysis (EA)
presented i s cursory and should therefore be considered a rapidEA. This i s mainly because of the lack of
primary data and analyzed information, especially in terms of the human ecosystems of Lao PDR and in
terms of the impacts of the LTP, some of which will not become apparent for a number of years. The
main conclusion of this environmental analysis is that, so long as certain precautions are taken, land
titling in urban and peri-urban areas will likely have a significant positive environmental impact, for
example, by creating incentives for improved land management by land owners; by facilitating improved
land use decisions by urban planners, and by reducing the potential impacts of uncontrolled land
conversion through improved land administration. However, under certain conditions, land titling in
urban and peri-urban areas could potentially contribute to adverse environmental outcomes despite being
positive in terms of more efficient tax collection, the revenue from which could offset some of the
dis-benefits.

The project i s classified as safeguards category B/S2 because it i s not expected to have significant
adverse environmental or social impacts. Overall, the project i s unlikely to have direct environmental
impacts but may be a contributing factor to inducing land use change in the project area. Thus the project
i s considered to have environmental implications rather than impacts per se. Other than rehabilitation or
construction of small land offices, the project will not support any major civil works. Furthermore, the
project will not support land conversion, resource extraction, industrial production or any other activity
which could damage the environment. The project will not provide titles in upland areas or areas covered
by forest, protected areas or other sensitive natural habitats. The titling activities will be limited to land
areas which have already undergone significant utilization such as urban and peri-urban areas, and some
lowland agricultural areas adjacent to urban villages where farming has been the dominant land use for
many years.

The socioeconomic conditions of Lao PDR are undergoing rapid change. This i s especially the case in
urban areas where population growth i s higher than the national average and growth in personal
disposable income probably more than double. From being a predominantly rural country, Lao PDR i s
rapidly urbanizing along the same lines as other South East Asian Countries and i s unlikely to escape the
same urban problems. Many of these changes are fuelled by economic reforms which are creating an
emerging market economy integratedwith the wider regional and world economies.

As a result of this change, a dynamic transformation of the use, management and trading of land and
property assets i s underway, as well as a transformation of the perception of land "ownership". Land
titling, and the security of land tenure this provides, is a key component of government reforms in the
area of land policy, management and admmistration. It i s important to understand the impact of land
titling in urban environments within the context of this dynamic change. Land titling i s only one of a
number of formal and informal processes that are changing the urban environment. There are dynamic
relationships amongst land titling and other factors such as taxation, interest rates, exchange rates.

Intwenty years, Lao PDR will have a human population exceeding 5 million, a greater Vientiane having
a population no less than 1.5 million. A population stabilized at around 16-20millions, will translate into
a Vientiane of 2.5 to 3 millions, 3 or 4 cities with populations of around 500,000 (Vientiane in 1993) and


                                                     - 93 -

numerous smaller but equally intensively urbanized centers. These cities will require to be serviced by
transport links, water supply, electricit), and liquid and solid waste processors. An increasingly affluent
middle-class will require additional space-hungry residential, transport and recreational facilities. In
other words, there is dynamic change which will touch every part of the country and every way of life.

LegalInstruments Appertaining to Land, Natural Resources,and Environment

The laws, regulations and legal instruments which appertain to the impact of land titling on the
environment lie a wide range of ministries (and the subservient committees, departments and agencies.
The legal framework includes:


0       The Constitution;
0       International Conventions to which the Lao PDR i s a Signatory;
0       NationalPlanning and Development Laws, Regulations, Instruments, Government Policy
        Statements and Implementation Programs;
0       Forestry and Agnculture Laws, Regulations, Instruments, Government Policy
        and Implementation Programs;
0       EnvironmentalLaws, Regulations, Instruments, Government Policy and Implementation
        Programs;
0       Ethnic Groups/Vulnerable Groups Laws, Regulations, Instruments, Government Policy and
        Implementation Programs; and
0       LandRelatedFinancial Laws, Regulations, Instruments, Government Policy and Implementation
        Programs.

The Land Law i s to ensure that land i s able to make a contribution to the acceleration of the national
socioeconomic development, as well as to the protection of the environment and the national borders.

Urban Organization and Administration

Interms of town planning, landtitlingenables or is one of the component processesenabling a number of
potential benefits which contribute to the health and well-being of citizens.

Roads, Run-off Drains and Footpaths. Town planning officers say that systematic land titling
coordinated with town planning offices presents a good opportunity to ensure that title boundaries take
account of planned road and associated run-off drainage and footpath (side-walk) plans. However, where
land has been occupied prior to the establishment of state-designated right of way, the titles will be
issued up to the boundaries of the existing land rights.If the land i s then required later for road widening,
ditches, or other service provision, the title holder will be eligible for compensation from the State in
accordance with the guidelines on involuntary resettlement. Secondary benefits include improved traffic
flow, better pedestrian safety, better dispersal of flood-water, and better public health related to drainage.


Water Supply, Sewage Disposal and Other Services. Well planned roads also enable easier installation
and maintenance of water supply services to individual properties. Similarly, well planned roads enable
better sewage disposal channels (open or closed), which may be designed with the road itself. Other
services are easier to supply along well planned roads. These include electricity, and telephone and other
cable communication services.

Emergency Services. Well designed and wide roads allow access to fire engines, ambulances and police
vehicles. Also, in poor and over-crowded areas where wood is a significant construction material, good


                                                     - 94 -

roads serve as a fire-beak.

Natural Drainage. Run-off drains take excess water off roads and out of settled areas into the natural
drainage system. Most often the natural drainage system i s the local river, which would, in its natural
(lowland) state have included flood plains and back-swamps.           Town planning must consider local
drainage processes carefully and this i s especially the case in the topical monsoon climate of Lao PDR,
critically so where an urban area develops on an alluvial plain.

Rapid urban growth and change usually results in illegal land-filling which can upset natural drainage
systems and considered engineering modifications. Where land titling processes co-ordinate with town
planning offices they can help to ensure that the titles neither infringe on natural drainage features nor
involve illegal land-fill.

Urban Organization and Administration. All the above show that land titling has the potential to
substantially aid physical urban organization but in addition, land titling actually does (as opposed
merely having the potential to do), assist administration by buildingup information about land holdings
based on accurate data interms of boundary survey, "ownership" and use. All this substantially eases the
collection of land taxes. Also, the information will help to identify the perpetrators of illegal land use,
ease compensation process where land i s taken for municipal or state use, and make it easier to solve
disputes about title and inheritance. All this will reduce the burden upon public funds.

The environmental benefits of a well organized and administered urban area cannot be under-estimated.
All these benefits are easier to provide in an urban area that is well organized and administered.
However, it i s important to note that good urban organization depends also on a host of the other factors
in addition to land titling. These include good legislation with regulations that guide town planning,
transparent government to minimize corruption and capable officers with the necessary technical support.


All the above, as stressed, are potential benefits, and the socioeconomic and environmental baseline
survey should allow to assess real benefits of the project.

Other Potential Impact on the Environment

More Investment. Well run, efficient and pleasant urban areas tend to attract more investment than less
well organized and administered places. This provides better wages andjob opportunities for citizens. As
above however, inward investment depends on much more than just good land titling and urban
management. Inthis respect macro-economic policy, includingthe national infrastructure, i s important.

Security of Title. "Ownership" of land and property is one of the prime reasons for improvement, even
with no commensurate economic return. Residential owners are much more likely to improve their
properties than tenants. Therefore, land titling has a direct potential benefit for environmental health in
terms of kitchens, bathrooms, lavatories, water storage and septic tanks. Environmental benefits also
arise from well maintained properties in terms of pest control, planting of trees and shrubs, compound
drainage (good guttering, no puddles where mosquitoes can breed), off-street parking and general
appearance.

More Efficient Taxation. Land titling directly improves tax collection and therefore enables local
government to do more interms of the urban management outlined above.

Efficient Land Market. Land titling promotes an efficient land market because boundaries are known,


                                                     - 95 -

ownership i s clear, transfer of ownership i s easy, and because the process, including valuation i s public
knowledge inasmuch as it i s registered and known to local government authorities.

Transparent Land Markets.           An efficient land market is transparent and therefore enables local
government and the community at large to control not only the illegal use of land but, importantly
land-hoarding for speculation purposes. If there i s a potential for a rapid increase in the value of land,
individuals or companies may buy up land and properties in certain strategic locations and hold it until
prices rise. Land may even be held off the market to restrict supply and thus push prices even higher.
Because the value lies in the future potential of the land rather than the present economic return of the
buildingson it, the buildingsmay be let at low rents and be badly maintained, becoming a health hazard
for poor occupants and neighbors alike. A transparent market on its own will not stop land hoarding;
legislation i s required to limit land holdings by individuals, companies or associations.

Increases in the Value of Land. Increases in the value of land encourages investment in the land. The
benefits of land titling to town planning have the potential to mitigate some physical environmental
degradation associated with rapid urban growth and poverty. However, there are also problematic
ramifications which arise from the very land market potentially enabled by land titling that can make
matters worse. This tendency for the land market to disadvantage some groups of people may happen in
any event (with or without land titling). Nonetheless, if land titling i s undertaken with a view to
mitigating what mightbe called "natural" market tendencies (taking into account vulnerable groups), then
undoubtedly the process will have a positive environmental impact.

Summary Assessmentof the Impact of Project Activities

Project activities have several potential town planning benefits where there i s co-operation with town
planning offices. Specifically, improvements intitling and land administration can:
0   Aide inthe alignment for roads, run-off drains and footpaths
0   Facilitate water supply, sewage disposal and other services
    Aid to management of naturaldrainage through improvedlanduse decisions
0   Aid to urban organization and administration
e   Via good urban organization and administration, encourages inwardInvestment

Furthermore, security of title may lead to:
0   Investment in health and sanitation
0   Psychological sense of well-being

More Efficient Taxation will:
0   Enables local government to spend more money on land, infrastructure and other environmental
    improvements.

Efficient land markets encourage:
0   Transparent Land Markets which mitigate against land hoarding and the potential for urban blight
    arising
    therefrom;
0   Increases the value of land and thus encourages personal investment in improvements by title
    holders; and
0   Better enables newcomers to buy into the market




                                                     - 96 -

        Item                                           Positive   Nil          Negative
                                                       Impact     Impact       Impact
       Where LT does coordinate with town             High
                                                        -
       planning offices
   1    Roads, run-off drains and footpaths            High
  2     Water supply, sewage disposal and other High
        services
  3    Emergency services                              High
  4    Management of naturaldrainage                   High
  5    Urban organization and administration           High
  6    Urban investment
      Where LT does not coordinate with town
      planning offices
  7    Roads and Dublic services                                               Medium



19    IUrban    organization,   administration
       investment                               and                            Medium
II                                                   II         II           II
      lsecuritv of title
  10 I Investmentinhealth and sanitation             ]High      I            I
  11 Sense of well being                               Medium
      Taxation
  12 More efficient                                    High
      More efficient landmarket




  Procedure For Screening Civil Works

  To address the potential adverse impacts of the project's small-scale civil works, procedures will be
  followed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts do not arise. First, to the extent possible all
  buildings will be located on existing government lands that have already been developed. Second, all
  proposed civil works will be screened using a simple checklist of potential impacts during the design
  stage.  Based on the screening review, a recommendation will be made as to whether a limited
  environmental assessment (IEE) or EMP will be required. The checklist i s presented in the Social and
  Environmental Guidelines. In the unlikely event that an IEEor EMP i s needed, it will be completed prior
  to issuance of construction bid documents. For all sub-projects requiring IEE or EMP, IDA will review
  these documents and issue no-objection to proceed prior to commencement of construction. In most
  cases however, adverse impacts will be negligible. Finally, all bid documents for all civil works will



                                                   - 97 -

include standard clauses to ensure that appropriate measures for waste disposal, sedimentation, dust and
noise control are included in construction contracts. Contractors will be obligated to comply with the
agreed measures.




                                                  - 98 -

                             Additional Annex 13: Legal Framework
         LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second LandTitling Project

A Transitional System: The legal framework for land administration in Laos is characteristic of
societies intransition toward market economies. The Constitution commits the country to a transition to a
market economy, on one hand, but on the other, ideologically core concepts like state ownership of land
are not shed quickly. Thus Article 15 of the 1991 Constitution proscribes full private ownership of land
and the Land Law of 1997, the framework law for property rights in land, reaffirms the ownership of all
landby the state (art. 3).

Land Use Rights: The Law on Land of 1997 sets out a system of property rights in land. Land is
assigned for use by the state to individuals, families and organizations (including state, social and
military organizations, and economic entities such as collectives) (art. 3). Villages are not considered to
be included under Article 3, and in systematic adjudication under the project, communal grazing, public
wells, temples and other village resources are beingtitled to the state.

District authorities are responsible for land assignment. In the case of agricultural land allowable
amounts for assignment range from 1 to 15 hectares depending upon the type of exploitation, and
additional land may be leased from the state (art. 17-18). Forest land i s similarly owned and assigned by
the state (Forestry Law, art. 5). Land rights may also be acquired by inheritance, transfer (Law on Land,
art. 52) or prescription by occupation for a period of twenty years (Law on Ownership, 1990, art. 42).

The government in the Law on Land commits itself to protecting "effective, peaceful and long-term use
of land" (art. 5) and sets out the basic land rights: the protection right, use right, usufruct rights, transfer
right and inheritance right (arts. 54-58). The use rights are for an indefinite period, transferable and
inheritable. On the initial assignment of a use right, the assignee i s given a provisional certificate, valid
for three years. The Law on Land provides that if the right i s unchallenged, and the land has been
developed, the holder may apply for a land title (arts. 18,22). There i s a similar system for assignment of
degraded forest land (arts. 16-21). Landceilings exist for both agncultural and degraded forest land (arts.
17,21).

Land use rights are subject to requirements that the holder protect the land and environment, not violate
the interests of others, accept valid servitudes, pay taxes and fees, and comply with land and forest
regulations (Law on Land, arts. 18, 22; Forest Law, arts. 8, 57). Non-compliance can result in loss of land
use rights, subject to unspecified compensation (Land on Law, arts. 67-71).

Permanent land use rights are inheritable, and the Property Law provides that husband and wife have
equal rights over conjugal property, notwithstanding who acquired the property, but if property was
acquired before the marriage, it i s not considered conjugal property. In fact customary rules usually
determine inheritance of land use rights.

Generally, customary land use rights are recognized as valid by the state only over forest land, under
Ministerial Order on Customary Rightsand Use of Forest Resources, 1996 (0054/MAF).

Land Transactions: Article 3 of the Law on Land prohibits taking land as a commodity which can be
bought and sold, but transactions in use rights are permitted. They may be perpetual for permanent use
rights, but there are time limits on transfers of provisional rights (art. 53). Article 57 restricts transfers to
land which has been developed, and under Articles 3 and 13, land rights may not be held by or
transferred to non-citizens. Land transfers must be registered, and the Ministerial Direction of 1999


                                                    - 99 -

 provides that transactions concerning land covered by a land certificate or title are unenforceable if not
 registered (art. 23).

 Land Titles and Titling: An adequate regulatory framework for landregistration was established under
Laos Land Titling I.    The Law on Land provides for a system of land registration (art. 43), and the land
title i s the principal evidence of a permanent land use right (art. 48). The names of both husband and
wife are required to be recorded in the Register Book (Law on Land, art. 43). The titling system i s
elaborated in a Ministerial Direction on Land Parcel Registration, 1999 (MD 996MoF). Adjudication
and titling can be done systematically or sporadically (Law on Land, art. 44). These procedures are laid
out in a Ministerial Direction on Systematic Adjudication of Land Use Right (MD 997MoF) and a
MinisterialDirectionon Sporadic Adjudication of Land Use Right (MD 998/MoF).

Land certificates of a provisional, temporary nature are also issued, for agricultural and forest land (The
Ministerial Direction of 1995, art. 35; Law on Land, arts. 18, 22, and 48). This i s done where there are
uncertainties as to boundaries or ownership, or the apparent owner i s not present during the adjudication.
After 10 years, the provisional certificate holder may, if his right has not been successfully challenged,
convert it to a permanent land title (art. 36). Land held under a certificate can be leased out but not for
more than five years (Ministerial Direction of 1999, art. 19).

Expropriation: The Constitution does not expressly provide for expropriation of land rights, but the
Law on Land provides for three types of takmg of land by the state. First, it i s provided that land use
rights shall terminate when land is requisitioned for public use (art. 63). "Suitable compensation" is
required but not defined (art. 70). Alternatively, there i s a category of "purchase of land assets out of
necessity" related to development, natural calamity, epidemics, and other urgent cases. Compensation is
again required but not defined (art. 43). Finally, land can be taken by the state for national defense, and
inthis casecompensation is only incaseof damage to property (art. 38).

Settlement of Land Disputes: The Law on Land distinguishes between disputes having administrative
characteristics and those having civil case characteristics. The first involve an action by government
which is contested, and are to be resolvedjointly by the land administration agency and local government
(art. 79). Those of civil character, including inheritance of developed land, transfer of land use right, and
other land contracts, are to first be arbitrated by the local authority and if that i s unsuccessful, taken for
resolution to the civil court (art. 80). These courts, including the Supreme People's Court; the Local
People's Courts at provincial, prefectural and district levels, and Military Courts) are governed by the
Law on People's Courts, 1989.

ReformsNeeded: Several reforms in the land law have been identified under LTP to be addressedunder
the sub-component of LTP IIon land policy formulation and development and drafting o f decrees and
ministerialinstructions. These would be the subject of studies, policy formulation and then legal reform.
Legal topics to be addressedinclude i)time period for disposal of land inexcess o f maximum time limits;
ii)durationofleaseperiodsforstateland;iii)landrightsofforeigninvestors,iv)paymendtaxforexcess
land areas; v) land rights of organizations, including villages and corporations; vi) compensation
standards for expropriations, including land in road rights-of-way; vii) resettlement, and viii) the legal
status and disposition of large, unused parcels of land.




                                                   - 100-

                         Additional Annex 14: Institutionalissues
      LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second LandTitling Project

 Analysis of institutional issues under the first LandTitling Project

 An Organization, Management and Operations (OMO) study of DOL, conducted under the LTP and
 completed in February 2001, identified short, medium and long-term issues that needed to be
 addressed by D O L to (i)increase productivity; (ii)improve effectiveness; and (iii)ensure
 sustainability of the project.

The OM0 Report findings and recommendations focused on the two key areas of D O L
organizational structure and staffing and human resources development. The OM0 Action Plan,
which had the support of provincial and district officials and was endorsed by the Vice Minister of
Finance, proposed:

(i)implementing new structures for DOL central, provincial and district operations with the
objective of adopting clear lines of communication and strengthening the functional land line.
Weaknesses identified included a lack of clear roles and responsibilities; centralized authority; and
PLOs and DLOs under the MOF undermining the Director General of DOL'Sability to focus work
on organizational objectives. Additionally, the transfer, in the medium term, o f non-core land tax
functions fromD O L was proposed;

(ii)recruitingstaffinaccordwithforwardstaffingplanstoensureadequatestafftoimplementthe
project. Substantial staff increases are required in all D O L offices as well as the SATs not only for
implementation, but for long term sustainability of the registration function. With the government
committed to a reduction in public sector staff numbers, substantial staff increases in the short term
needs to be accommodated by engagement of contract staff;

(iii)strengthening staff training, including through establishment of a Central Training Unit to
coordinate and manage training. The main weaknesses identified included lack of adequate training
needs analysis; lack of a training strategy and training plans; lack of management and land related
technical slulls; and few opportunities to access appropriate training internally or externally;

(iv)retaining trained staff through implementation of a long term HRD plan which sought to
introduce concepts of merit selection processes, gender equity, relevant job descriptions, skill audits,
training plans, performance assessment, operatingprocedures, etc; and

(v) ensuring sustainability through education and training of future managers and technical
specialists particularly through establishment of a High Diploma in Surveying and Land
Administration at the Polytechnic School.

The first project saw some progress in recruitment, training, education and HRD practices, but in
August 2002, in an apparent response to concerns about productivity and the slow rate of title
issuance, D O L implemented a restructure involving splitting project management (PSU) from the
department and introducing a similar structure at provincial and district level. The positions of
Director General of D O L and Project Director were split. This compounded concerns about the
functional land line and long-term sustainability.




                                              - 101 -

Proposedrestructuring of DOL and landoffices under LTPI1

LTP IIproject preparation proposed that the organizational structure and human resources
development proposals of the O M 0 Report, updated as appropriate, be implemented. This was
endorsed at a workshop held in March 2003 involving participants from Ministry of Finance
(Department of Personnel, Ministry Cabinet), DOL, DONLUPAD, DSA, LWU and relevant
provincial and district officials. Approvalby the Minister of Finance of the agreed D O L restructuring
and staffingplan for LTP IIi s a condition for negotiation. This plan involves:
(i)theintegrationofthePSUinDOLandofthePPFUsintheprovinciallandoffices.Atcentral
level, staff of the Project Support Unit will be transferred to the new PFD of DOL and carry out the
functions of project management, including planning, budgeting, procurement, disbursement,
monitoring and reporting, and overall coordination of project activities. The Technical Monitoring
Unit of the PSU will be transferred to a new Technical Support Unit in the Cadastral Surveying
Division; at provincial level, the PPFU will be merged with PLOs' Planning and Finance Section.
The Planning and Finance Sections (PFS) of PLOs will be responsible for project management,
including planning, budgeting, local procurement, sub-account management, supervision of project
activities (including SATs), monitoring and reporting; similar structures would be adopted and
implemented indistrict land offices;

(ii)staffingplanforprojectedstaffrequirementsinDOLandinprovincialanddistrictlandoffices.
    a
Staff will be redeployed to the new divisions and units of DOL, and to the new sections of PLOs and
DLOs, with a total incremental number of staff of 187 over five years, including 49 civil servants and
138 contractual staff. Most of the increase will occur at provincial and district level. Inaddition, SAT
team composition will be strengthened by the recruitment of 44 new CES staff. Recruitment of new
CES staff will be based on criteria and skills requirements developed duringproject preparation;

(iii)streamlining of functional and administrative relationships between D O L and the provincial and
district land offices: and

(iv) strengthening the monitoring capacity of provincial land taxation units, in preparation for the
transfer of land tax functions out of D O L inthe mediumterm.

The proposed new organizational charts of DOL, PLOs and DLOs are presented in attachment 1.
Attachment 2 presents the yearly staff increases for both government and contract staff in DOL,
PLOs and DLOs, over the life of the project.

Technical Assistance inputs

The intemational HRDkraining adviser under the current project will assist D O L prepare the
Ministerial Direction on Position, Functions, Rights, Organizational Structure and Working Methods
for the agreed new structure of DOL. The adviser will also review slull needs; update and refine job
descriptions; develop criteria for staff redeployment and recruitment; further develop the training
strategy and prepare a review of HRD requirements and a HRD strategy prior to commencement of
LTPII.

LPT IIwill have a focus on institutional development to establish the basis for the long-term
sustainability of DOL. Consequently the focus of technical assistance will be more closely aligned to
building staff and institutional capacity through mentoring and support for training of DOL and
related agency staff. This is reflected in TA inputs and skill requirements, which place greater
emphasis on planningand institutional development.


                                               - 102-

                                                Annex 14
                                          Attachment lla


                   Attachment 1
Proposedorganizationalcharts of DOL, PLOs and DLOs

         a/ Proposednew structure of DOL




                      LandTar Dlvlslon




                      - 103-

                                                 Annex 14
                                          Attachment l/b



b/ Proposednew structure of Provincial LandOffices




                     -104  -

                                                 Annex 14
                                          Attachment llc


c/ Proposed new structure of District LandOffices




                     -105 -

                                                                      Annex 14
                                                                      Attachment 2




              Staffing plan of DOL,PLOs and DLOs Incremental staffing
                                                       -




Govt. = Government staff; Contract = Contractual staff




                                           - 106-

                    Additional Annex 15: Monitoringand Evaluation(M&E)
          LAO PEOPLE'SDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:Second Land Titling Project

M&Eunder the FirstLandTitlingProject

Under the first project, technical monitoring was the responsibility of the Technical Monitoring Unit
under the Project Support Unit (PSU) of D O L at central level, and PFSU at provincial level, and mainly
based on output and performance indicators for systematic adjudication (number of titles adjudicated,
signed, distributed; SAT team productivity; government revenues; etc.). General reporting was done as
part of project management functions of the PSU, and was also mostly based on output indicators
(number of training sessions conducted, number of staff trained, number of villages covered by the
valuation system, etc.). Less attention has been given to process management indicators, quality of
delivery of services indicators, socioeconomic impact indicators, and to other indicators of good
governance (gender balance, dispute resolution, etc.). A socioeconomic baseline survey, to allow for
future assessment of project impact, i s being conducted as part of the first project. Monitoring and
evaluation of project performance has generally been a weak area, and opportunities to improve project
performancehave been missed.

Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements under LTP I1

Monitoring and Evaluation activities under LTP IIwill be strengthened and will include two main
elements: (i) Regular monitoring and evaluation of project performance through the establishment and
implementation of an integratedM&Esystem; (ii)socioeconomic and environmental impact study to be
                                                     a
conductedduringyear 4 of project implementation.

(i)IntegratedMonitoringandEvaluationSystem

As the basic procedures for land titling and registration are now in place and being upgraded, more
emphasis i s needed on monitoring and evaluation of the quality and performance of land administration
services and project management at central, provincial and district level. The introduction of an
integrated monitoring and evaluation system will allow regular monitoring and evaluation of activities
supported by the project, and will support the assessment of DOL'S capacity to further expand project
activities in new provinces. The M&E system will be established during the first year of project
implementation, with the assistance of an international M&E advisor, who will develop and test the
system. Overall responsibility for M&Ewould be under the Planning and Finance Division of DOL.

Design of the M&E system

The design of the M&Esystem will:

e   Identify and define key input, output, outcome and impact indicators to monitor and evaluate the
    performance of DOL, DONLUPAD, and other executing agencies in implementingproject activities;
    these indicators will include:

(i) managementindicators:e.g. monitoringoftimingofprocurementprocess,offinancialand
   Project
disbursement processes, of work plan preparation and processing schedules; actual implementation of
agreed MOUs betweenD O L and other project executing agencies, etc;
(ii)Technical monitoring indicators, including services standards indicators: e.g. delays between
adjudication and title distribution; number of titles adjudicated, signed, surveyed; etc;



                                                    -107-

(iii)Projectimplementation progress indicators:e.g. number of consultations heldbyDONLUPAD;
staffing deployment and recruitment in DOL; progress with forward planning process implementation;
number of villages covered by community mapping; number of transactions registered; progress with
training activities; etc;
(iv) Economic indicators: e.g. government revenues (land taxes and fees); and
(v) Social and gender indicators: e.g. dispute cases and number of cases resolved; number of women
professional staff in DOL, PLOs and DLOs, and SAT teams; number of women trained under the project:
number of scholarships granted to women; titles issues in the name of women; etc.

0   Specific responsibilities and reporting lines within DOL, PLOS, DLOs, LWU and other
    implementing agencies (DONLUPAD, NGD, Polytechnic School, DSA) for monitoring those
    indicators, and linkages with the integrated M&E system of the Planning and Finance Division of
    DOL. In particular, the role of CES staff (both central and provincial) in monitoring and evaluation
    of CES activities and linkages with the general M&E system will be reviewed; key indicators to be
    collected during community mapping, and through other CES activities, will be identified;
    responsibilities for technical monitoringand evaluation, and linkages with the general system will be
    specified; responsibilities for monitoring of component 1 implemented by DONLUPAD will be
    defined; and responsibilities of the Central Training Unit for M&E of training activities will be
    specified. In addition, a mechanismfor community monitoring of project activities, usinginformation
    collected duringcommunity mapping, will be proposed, and possible options for the introduction of a
    mechanismfor complaint and complaints handling assessed.

0   Frequency o f data collection and reporting for the different indicators defined; and

0   Reporting formats (tables, other) to be generated by the M&Esystem.

Supportfrom theproject

Inaddition to the inputs of the internationalM&Eadvisor, the project will include:
    Staffing: Two staff responsible for M&Ein the Planning and Finance Division of DOL, in charge of
    overall coordination of M&E, including data collection from and coordination with other units
    (Technical Support Unit; CES; procurement and financial management units; DONLUPAD; etc.),
    and reporting; At provincial level, one staff responsible for M&E in the Planning and Budgeting
    Section with similar functions;
    Training for M&Estaff;
0   Office equipment (software and hardware) and operating costs.

(ii)Socioeconomicandenvironmentalimpactstudy

In year 4 of project implementation, DOL will implement a socioeconomic and environmental impact
study, which will be designed as a follow-up to the first socioeconomic baseline survey conducted under
the LTP. The objective i s to assess the extent to which the objectives and expected outcomes of the
project are being realized over time. Impact indicators include reduction in land disputes, increase in
certainty and security of tenure, increase in formal land transactions, increase in investment in the
property sector, increase in lending usingmortgages as collateral, increase in government revenue, access
and impact on women and other vulnerable groups such as ethnic minorities, environmental impacts and
measures of the level of service satisfaction.




                                                  - 108-

