                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001270




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38010)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
                      (US$14.82 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                   LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                    FOR THE

                       SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT



                                          , 2010




Social, Environment and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective November, 4, 2009)

                    Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                          LAK 1 = US$0.000118245
                         US$1.00 = LAK 8,457.0

                     WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                          Metric system

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        October 1 - September 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Loan
AusAID     Australian Agency for International Development
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CES        Community Education and Services
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DoL        Department of Lands
DoNLUPAD   Department of National Land Use Planning and Development
DSA        Department of State Assets Management
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
FY         Fiscal Year
GIS        Geographic Information System
GoL        Government of Lao PDR
GPS        Global Postioning System
GTZ        Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit
           (German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IERR       Internal Economic Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Status Result s Report
KPI        Key Performance Indicators
Lao PDR    Lao People's Democratic Republic
LAK        Lao Kip (Lao's currency)
LDB        Laos Development Bank
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
LIS        Land Information System
LNRIRC     Land and Natural Resources Information Research Center
LTP I      First Land Titling Project
LTP II   Second Land Titling Project
LWU      Lao Women's Union
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MEM      Ministry of Energy and Mines
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGD      National Geographic Department
NGESP    National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
NLMA     National Land Management Authority
NLPC     National Land Policy Committee
NLPF     National Land Policy Framework
NPEP     National Poverty Eradication Program
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PC       Polytechnic College
PDO      Project Development Objective
PLMA     Province Land Management Agency
PLO      Provincial Land Office
PMO      Project Management Office
PSC      Project Steering Committee
PSU      Project Support Unit
PY       Project Year
QAE      Quality at Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QSA      Quality at Supervision Assessment
ROW      Rights of Way
SAT      Surveying and Adjudication Team
SEBS     Socio-Economic Baseline Study
SEEIA    Socio-Economic and Environmental Impact Assessment
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SMB      Small and Medium Businesses
TA       Technical Assistance
TTL      Task Team Leader
VCC      Vientiane Capital City or Vientiane Prefecture
VIS      Valuation Information System
WREA     Water Resources and Environment Agency
XDR      Special Drawing Right
                        Vice President:                 Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
                     Country Director:                  Ms. Annette Dixon, EACTF
                         Sector Leader:                 Ms. Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex, EASTS
                  Project Team Leader:                  Mr. Keith Clifford Bell, EASER
                    ICR Team Leader:                    Mr. Keith Clifford Bell, EASER

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                 SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................. 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................... 27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................ 28
6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 31
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............. 32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 35
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................... 36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................... 51
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............... 55
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................. 57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ..................................................... 58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 59
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................ 63
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 65
Annex 10: Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission ..................................................... 66
Map IBRD 33431 ............................................................................................................ 68
A. Basic Information
                        Lao People's                                      Second Land Titling
Country:                                        Project Name:
                        Democratic Republic                               Project
Project ID:             P075006                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38010
ICR Date:               05/20/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          LAO PEOPLE'S
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 DEMOCRATIC
                                                                          REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 10.8M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National Land Management Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
 German Agency for Technical Coorperation (GTZ)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/05/2002     Effectiveness:            02/03/2004         02/03/2004
Appraisal:            04/28/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/24/2003     Mid-term Review:          09/30/2005         05/29/2006
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2009         06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       50                  50
General public administration sector                                   50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                     34                  34
Personal and property rights                                           33                  33
Rural markets                                                          33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                        Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                         Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:            Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex          Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Keith Clifford Bell                   Wael Zakout
ICR Team Leader:           Keith Clifford Bell
ICR Primary Author:        Surajit Goswami
                           Maria Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Second Land Titling Project (LTP II) is the second phase of the long term land titling
program aiming at the development of the land administration capacity to support the
country's economic development and poverty reduction goals. The project would
contribute to the government's National Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP) under
preparation. The objectives of the project are to (i) improve the security of land tenure;
(ii) develop transparent and efficient land administration institutions at the national and


                                                   ii
provincial levels; and (iii) improve the government's capacity to provide social and
economic services through broader revenue base from property related fees and taxes.
These objectives would be achieved through formulating and approving land policy and
regulatory changes, strengthening institutional capacity and project management,
accelerating land titling activities in areas of high demand, developing and implementing
an efficient and transparent land registration system, and strengthening land valuation
systems.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives were unchanged.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                    approval          Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in government revenues by 30% from land and property taxes and fees.
                                                                                  Land offices
                  Land offices revenues
                                                                                  revenue from land-
                  from land-related taxes &
                                                                                  related taxes and
Value             fees in FY 2000-01 (Oct.
                                                                                  fees increased by
quantitative or   1, 2000 to Sept. 30,2001). 30% increase.
                                                                                  208% between FY
Qualitative)      Revenue collected in
                                                                                  2002 to
                  2000-2001 was
                                                                                  2003 and 2008 to
                  20.75 billion kip.
                                                                                  2009
Date achieved     09/30/2004                  06/30/2009                          06/30/2009
                  The 30% target was amply exceeded, with land-related taxes and fees increasing
Comments
                  from LAK 28.3 to LAK 87.3 between FY 2002 to 2003 and 2008 to 2009,
(incl. %
                  equivalent to over 200 percent. After adjusting for inflation, the overall increase
achievement)
                  is about 86%.
Indicator 2 :     Equal access of women to land office services and land titling activities.
                                                                                  37.5% of titles
                                                                                  issued to women
                  No baseline until the
Value                                                                             (compared to
                  socio-economic impact
quantitative or                               Equal access                        23.4% to men) and
                  assessment (SEEIA) is
Qualitative)                                                                      29.3% issued
                  completed.
                                                                                  jointly to spouses
                                                                                  under LTPII
Date achieved     10/31/2007                  06/30/2009                          06/30/2009
Comments          Based on distribution of titles, the target was exceeded, as 148,152 titles were
(incl. %          issued to women compared to 92, 653 titles issued to men, i.e., the number of
achievement)      titles issued to women is 60 percent higher than those issued to men.
                  Increase by 30% in the number of formal land transactions (both sales and
Indicator 3 :
                  rentals).
Value                                                                             34,973 transactions
                  No baseline until the
quantitative or                               Increase by 30%                     registered in FY
                  SEEIA is completed.
Qualitative)                                                                      2007 to 2008,



                                                  iii
                                                                               equivalent to a
                                                                               106% increase
Date achieved 10/31/2007                    06/30/2009                         08/30/2008
                The number of registered subsequent land transactions, including sales, leases,
Comments
                inheritance & sub-divisions among others, roughly doubled over the life of the
(incl. %
                project, from 17,009 in FY 03-04, to approx. 35,000 in FY 07-08. No available
achievement)
                data in FY08-09.
                Increase in Formal Lending and the average loan size, as well as a reduction in
Indicator 4 :
                interest rate.
                                                                               6,791 mortgages
Value                                                                          registered in
                                            30% increase in
quantitative or No Baseline                                                    FY2007 to 2008,
                                            formal lending
Qualitative)                                                                   equivalent to a
                                                                               108% increase
Date achieved 08/30/2004                    06/30/2009                         08/30/2008
                The growth in mortgage-backed business loans indicates that financial
Comments
                institutions place a value on land titles. The number of registered mortgages
(incl. %
                roughly doubled over the life of the project, from 3, 271 in FY 2003 to 2004 to
achievement)
                6,791 in FY 2007 to 2008.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                   approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
                  Key land policies are formulated, and associated regulatory instruments
Indicator 1 :
                  developed and adopted.
                                                                                NLPF has been
                                             National Land
Value                                                                           prepared but is yet
                  No national land policy Policy Framework
(quantitative                                                                   to be presented to
                  framework is in place.     in place. (White
or Qualitative)                                                                 the National
                                             paper)
                                                                                Assembly
Date achieved     09/30/2004                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments          Partially Achieved: Thirteen studies on key land policy issues were conducted
(incl. %          under LTP II. NLPF is now completed and is expected to be presented to the
achievement)      National Assembly during 2010.
                  The Department of Land (DOL) has the institutional capacity to undertake its
Indicator 2 :
                  mandate in an efficient, effective and sustainable manner
                                                                                The NLMA was
                                                                                implemented in
                  Multiple agencies exist
                                                                                December 2006.
Value             with unclear mandates, Institutional
                                                                                Institutional
(quantitative     overlapping                capacity fully
                                                                                capacity has
or Qualitative)   responsibilities and weak implemented
                                                                                gradually improved
                  capacity
                                                                                but sustainability
                                                                                issues are pending.
Date achieved     09/30/2004                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments          Partially Achieved: A single land agency, the National Land Management


                                                 iv
(incl. %          Authority, (NLMA), with a broad mandate on land policy, management and
achievement)      administration, was created in May 2004, through changes to the Land Law, but
                  was only established in Dec. 2006.
Indicator 3 :     A well functioning land registration system is established.
                                            Service standards
                                                                                 Service standards
                                            for land
                                                                                 were developed and
                                            registration
                                                                                 implemented.
Value                                       developed,
                                                                                 Provincial Land
(quantitative     No service standards      implemented and
                                                                                 Offices are
or Qualitative)                             monitored. 80%
                                                                                 complying with the
                                            of all transactions
                                                                                 majority of the
                                            are completed
                                                                                 standards
                                            within standards.
Date achieved     09/30/2004                06/30/2009                           06/30/2009
Comments          Achieved: The majority of the service standards are being complied with by the
(incl. %          PLOs. Compliance with service standards is monitored and confirmed by the
achievement)      M&E system.
Indicator 4 :     A well functioning system for issuing land titles is established.
                                                                                 427, 526 land
                                            400,000 land
                                                                                 parcels were
                                            parcels to be
                                                                                 surveyed and
Value                                       surveyed and
                                                                                 adjudicated; for
(quantitative     Nil                       adjudicated, with
                                                                                 93% of these
or Qualitative)                             80% of these
                                                                                 parcels (i.e., 395,
                                            (320,000) as titles
                                                                                 279) titles were
                                            issued to owners.
                                                                                 issued to owners.
Date achieved     09/30/2004                10/24/2008                           06/30/2009
Comments          Achieved: Targets were amply exceeded. The number of land parcels that were
(incl. %          adjudicated and surveyed under LTP II was roughly 7% higher than anticipated
achievement)      at appraisal.
                  Improved capacity of DOL and land offices to implement and manage project
Indicator 5 :
                  activities
Value                                                                            M&E system has
                  No M&E system in          Computerized
(quantitative                                                                    been developed and
                  existence                 M&E system
or Qualitative)                                                                  is operational.
Date achieved     09/30/2004                06/30/2009                           06/30/2009
                  Achieved: The M&E system was developed and served to monitor project inputs
Comments
                  and outputs during implementation as well as compliance with service standards
(incl. %
                  by PLOs. An effective manual system became operational soon after the first
achievement)
                  MTR of May 2006.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2003             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/22/2003             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00



                                                  v
  3    03/29/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory           0.70
  4    08/25/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory           1.22
  5    11/30/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory           1.74
  6    06/03/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    2.84
  7    06/20/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    2.98
  8    06/20/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    3.77
  9    04/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    7.34
 10    03/14/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   11.32
 11    08/12/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   13.23
 12    12/18/2008       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory   14.88
                                                        Moderately
 13    04/27/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                  15.21
                                                      Unsatisfactory
 14    08/19/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   16.18


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Building upon the achievements of its predecessor (the first Land Titling Project, LTP I - IDA
Credit 2832), the Second Land Titling Project (LTP II) continued to support the efforts of the
Government of Laos (GoL) to develop the legal and regulatory framework for land
administration. GoL had identified efficient land markets as one of the cornerstones to transition
from a centrally planned economy to a social market economy. LTP I is mentioned in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as one of the main elements of the strategy to achieve poverty
reduction and private sector growth. Although LTP II was not directly mentioned in the
subsequent CAS, it nevertheless was part of the strategy to support economic development and
poverty reduction through developing land administration capacity. Such transition was set in
motion in 1986 with the introduction of a set of economic reforms under the so-called `New
Economic Mechanisms.' In this context, a properly functioning system of land titling and
registration was seen as a critical step in enhancing tenure security, increasing fiscal revenue, and
providing a solid foundation for the development of land markets. Like its predecessor, LTP II
was designed to support this objective.1

                     Box 1. Laos First Land Titling Project (IDA Credit No. 2832)
LTP I was approved in early 1996, after two years of intense sector work. The original project cost was of
US$28.4million, of which US$20.7million were financed by an (International Development Association)
IDA credit, US$5million from Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), and the
remaining by government counterpart funds. It closed in September 2005, two years after the original
closing date.

The overall goal of the project, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to strengthen the basis
for the long-term sustainable economic and social development of the Lao People's Democratic Republic
(Lao PDR). In order to contribute to the achievement of this goal, the two objectives of the project were:
(a) to foster the development of efficient land markets; and (b) to facilitate domestic resource mobilization,
by providing a system of clear and enforceable land-use ownership rights and by developing a land
valuation capacity.

The outcome of LTP I was assessed as satisfactory, with a likely sustainability, moderate institutional
development impact, and satisfactory performances by both the Bank and Borrower. Specifically, the
project was successful in the development of the regulatory framework and the implementation of the
property valuation component. A Land Law was passed in 1997 and several decrees on land
administration and property valuation were prepared and enacted. The project was less successful in the
issuance of land titles. The project was designed to issue land titles to around 300,000 parcels in the
Vientiane Prefecture (also called Vientiane Capital City or VCC and four provinces (four additional
provinces were added later). The number of titles issued under the project was much lower than initially
planned, due to several factors, including lack of government counterpart funds during the period from
1997 to 1999, weak staff capacity and bottlenecks in the technical processes.



1
    Refer to ICR, June 2006, for LTP (IDA Credit No. 2832)



                                                        1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The specific objectives of the project were to:
 a.    Improve the security of land tenure.
 b.    Develop transparent and efficient land administration institutions at the national and
       provincial levels.
 c.    Improve the government's capacity to provide social and economic services through
       broader revenue base from property-related fees and taxes.

A set of eight Key Performance Indicators (KPI) were included in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). They were identified for the project as whole and not linked to individual
PDO. They included various indirect measures of improved land tenure security as well as some
general benchmarks for more efficient land administration institutions and gender equality in
relation to land issues. Only four of the KPI, together with the corresponding targets, were
included in the International Development Association (IDA) Development Credit Agreement
(DCA).

LTP II Key Performance Indicators

KPIs included in both the PAD and the DCA
       Increase in the number of formal land transactions (both sales and rentals).
       Increase in formal lending and the average loan size, as well as a reduction in interest
       rates.
       Increased government revenues from land and property taxes and fees.
       Equal access of women to Land Office services and land titling activities.

KPIs included only in the PAD
       Increased household incomes in the project areas.
       Increased level of resolution of land disputes.
       Increased investment in the property sector.
       General satisfaction with Land Office services.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

About 200,000 households, in the designated project provinces, were expected to benefit directly
from LTP II by receiving land titles as part of the systematic land titling program. The benefits
associated with land titles included increased tenure security as well as access to credit and
opportunities to increase investments and productivity. Special attention was given to
information dissemination and community participation activities to ensure that women and other
vulnerable groups were fully aware of their rights and the potential benefits and risks of using
land titles as collateral. The population as a whole was also expected to benefit under the project,



                                                 2
as additional property-related revenues were expected to improve the government's capacity to
provide social and economic services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was designed as the second phase of a long-term national land titling program aimed
at extending secure land ownership and developing land administration and valuation systems
including a cadastral mapping system. The project focused on urban, peri-urban and rural
lowlands, mainly small rice fields, on the periphery of the smaller towns.

The project design had five components and fifteen sub-components. The total project cost was
estimated at appraisal to be US$ 23.92 million (of which IDA financing is US$ 14.82), which
included taxes and duties (US$ 0.18 million); and physical and price contingencies (US$ 1.50
million).

Component 1 - Development of the Land Policy and Regulatory Framework
(Cost estimate at appraisal - US$ 3.13 million)
This component supported:
       the development of government's capacity to formulate land policies.
       the formulation of land policy and the development of regulatory framework.
       the establishment of a coordination mechanism for land information.

Component 2 - Institutional Development (Cost estimate at appraisal - US$ 2.13 million)
This component supported:
       the long term institutional development of Department of Lands (DoL) and Province Land
       Offices (PLOs).
       training and human resources development for DoL and other land institutions at the
       central, provincial and district levels.
       education programs of the Polytechnic College in the areas of land administration, land
       management, and property valuation.

Component 3 - Development of a Modern Land Registration System
(Cost estimate at appraisal - US$ 2.24 million)
This component supported the continuing strengthening of the land registration system, the
associated work flow procedures and the operation of the land offices, through:
       strengthening of land offices to achieve agreed service standards.
       supporting Community Education and Services (CES) focusing on dissemination and
       community participation activities with a particular focus on women and other vulnerable
       groups.
       supporting land valuation services.
       supporting the Department of State Assets Management (DSA).

Component 4 - Accelerated Land Titling through Systematic Registration
(Cost estimate at appraisal - US$ 7.98 million)
This component supported:
       CES to assess the social and ethnic profile of communities as well as special community
       participation needs prior to their inclusion in the project.


                                               3
           systematic land titling activities.

Component 5 - Support to Project Management and Implementation
(Cost estimate at appraisal - US$ 8.44 million)
This component supported:
       technical assistance for capacity building.
       strengthening of project management and implementation.
       strengthening of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) function of DoL.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project components remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

Apart from the reallocation of project funds among different disbursement categories, three
additional significant changes took place over the life of the operation:

           Initially, the project was to be co-financed by IDA and AusAID. In 2005, the German
           Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) joined in and provided US$ 1.25 million in
           grant support for Component 1 (originally to be financed by IDA).

           DoL was the original implementing agency under the Ministry of Finance (MoF). It was
           placed under the newly established National Land Management Authority (NLMA) in
           December 2006, with NLMA itself being the newly designated implementing agency.
           NLMA also took on the functions of former Department of National Land Use Planning
           and Development (DoNLUPAD) which was leading Component 1 and also the key
           functions of DSA.

           The original coverage of the project, with nine (9) provinces (including the Vientiane
           Capital City (VCC) as identified in the PAD) was expanded in October 2007 to include an
           additional five provinces. Expansion of the project to these five additional provinces was
           anticipated at appraisal, but was subject to satisfactory progress in the initial nine
           provinces. In early 2008, NLMA advised that the government want to complete first time
           land registration for the entire country by 2020, and in order to do this it wanted to expand
           project implementation to all provinces. 2 Based on the significant technical capacity
           (surveying, titling and CES under DoL), experience and reliable procedures established
           under LTP I and II, this objective seemed to be reasonable. At that time, funding was
           available under the existing Credit and IDA had agreed to commence processing
           Additional Financing for a two-year period 2010 to 2011 in anticipation that a third phase
           of LTP would follow around 2012. Accordingly, a further request from GoL to expand to
           the country's remaining three provinces was approved in August 2008. These expansions
           were approved through amendments to the DCA. There were no changes in the KPIs.


2
    Lao PDR has sixteen provinces and the VCC. For convenience this is referred to as seventeen (17) provinces.



                                                          4
       However, by January 2009, NLMA had expressed interest in changing the focus of LTP II
       to one of land use planning before title issuance. As this created concerns about tenure
       security, together with a number of land policy and institutional development concerns,
       Additional Financing was dropped.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry (QAE): The project's overall QAE was moderately satisfactory. While the
project design effectively built upon the strengths of LTP I, it also had some weaknesses, which
have negatively affected the project's overall effectiveness and sustainability.

Assessment of Quality at Entry (QAE)

Strengths
       Relevancy: LTP II was highly consistent with the GoL's strategic development objectives
       during its transition from a centrally planned economy to a social market economy. By
       contributing toward enhanced tenure security and the development of an efficient land
       administration system, LTP II helped provide a solid foundation for the development of
       land markets. The project was also fully consistent with GoL's National Growth and
       Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES), which was under preparation at the time. The
       goals of the NGPES are to promote economic growth with equity, modernize the
       country's social and economic infrastructure, and enhance the development of human
       resources.

       Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Objectives: The objectives of the
       project were fully aligned with the IDA CAS for the period 2000 to 2002 (Report
       No.19098, March 30, 1999) and the one covering the period 2003 to 2005, which was
       under preparation at the time of appraisal (Report No. 31758, March 10, 2005). As with
       its predecessor, LTP II directly supported the fundamental objectives of the 2000 to 2002
       CAS, which were to achieve poverty reduction and private sector growth.

       Scope of the Project: As with its predecessor, LTP II correctly emphasized securing
       existing land rights in areas that were experiencing growth pressures and, at the same
       time, had relatively clear legal and policy frameworks. Thus, the systematic titling
       program under LTP II focused on urban, peri-urban and lowland agricultural areas
       surrounding villages. Although the importance of ensuring land tenure in all rural areas
       and the implications for rural poverty were clearly recognized, it was also recognized that
       additional policy dialogue and an agreed National Land Policy Framework (NLPF) were
       needed before land titling efforts could proceed in all rural areas, especially those under
       complex systems of traditional land use rights, including shifting cultivation and
       communal land ownership.

       Emphasis on Cross-sectoral, Institutional Partnerships: The project design proactively
       incorporated mechanisms to foster cross-sectoral policy dialogue, as well as technical and
       institutional cooperation among a wide spectrum of institutional stakeholders. At the


                                                5
        policy level, it supported the role of the National Land Policy Committee (NLPC), which
        was the cross-sectoral intra-governmental body responsible for the formulation of the
        NLPF. At the operational level, it promoted cross-sectoral coordination by establishing a
        Project Steering Committee (PSC) with representatives from key central governmental
        agencies with responsibilities relevant to land issues and the institutional partners. 3
        Committees with a similar institutional structure were also to be established at the
        provincial level. At the operational level, it continued to strengthen the key institutional
        partnerships forged under LTP I, including those with the National Geographic
        Department (NGD) and the Polytechnic College (PC).

        Expanded Participatory Processes at the Community Level: LTP II effectively addressed
        the weaknesses identified by the Socio-Economic Baseline Study (SEBS) conducted in
        2002, which indicated that women had not been able to participate fully in LTP I and that
        they did not fully understand their rights with respect to land. It did so by expanding
        Community Education and Services (CES) activities that were initiated under LTP I,
        explicitly incorporating the Laos Women Union (LWU) into the project and providing
        financial support for their participation in field activities and the development of
        educational materials.

        Adequate Incorporation of Lessons Learned: Given that LTP I was still ongoing at the
        time of appraisal, an independent review mission was conducted in 2002, which identified
        three key lessons to be addressed under the proposed operation. These lessons pointed to:
        (a) weak government capacity in areas such as policy development, M&E, project
        management, procurement and financial management; (b) lack of clarity in policy
        formulation; and (c) the need to emphasize stakeholder participation. As discussed above,
        the design of LTP II effectively expanded participatory and information-sharing
        mechanisms. Likewise, the project design addressed the other two weaknesses by focusing
        four of the five project components on capacity building, including policy formulation,
        institutional capacity including project management and M&E. AusAID and GTZ, also
        provided significant TA under the operation.

        Partnership with Other Donors: LTP II continued to build upon the long-term partnership
        between IDA and AusAID working on land issues in Laos; thus, helping ensure the
        consistency and efficiency of the technical assistance provided by IDA, AusAID and, later
        on, GTZ.

Weaknesses
     Undue Number of Covenants: Too many covenants were defined at appraisal and
     subsequently included in the DCA. Many did not warrant to be legally binding, such as
     meeting schedules for policy bodies and other specific actions within individual
     components. At least one of the covenants concerned the completion of a national land
     policy which was to be submitted to the National Assembly for approval. A further
     covenant required implementation of a restructuring of DoL during the first year of project



3
     The Committee was chaired by MoF and included the heads of key government agencies as well as partner
institutions, including the NGD, PC and LWU.


                                                    6
       implementation. Such policy and institutional changes require higher level government
       decisions, at a political level, and are not within the control of the implementing agency. .

       Weak Results Framework: Although highly relevant, the PDO were not fully conducive to
       objective measurement, as some elements were too broadly defined and highly qualitative.
       The definition of the third PDO, `improve the government's capacity to provide economic
       and social services through a broader revenue base from property-related fees and taxes,'
       was particularly weak. While the target increase in land-related revenues was defined, no
       indication was given of how to gauge improvements in government's capacity to provide
       social and economic services. The set of KPI did not fully support the measurement of all
       PDOs.). It is difficult to isolate the effect of the project from other factors, e.g., the extent
       to which the increase in the average size of mortgage-backed loans over the life of the
       operation is the result of enhanced tenure security or, alternatively, other factors such as
       rising land prices as a result of economic growth. Likewise, an extensive set of outcome
       indicators was identified in the PAD, although only a few of them were truly measurable
       or relevant. As in the case of the KPI, only a subset of the outcome indicators identified at
       appraisal were included in the DCA and subsequently monitored. Unfortunately, some
       elements of measuring the achievement of the PDO were to be through the impact
       assessment, i.e. the SEEIA, which was not undertaken, due to ongoing procurement
       delays. Therefore, the ability to more fully evaluate the achievement of the PDO could
       not be realized. A further weakness was that the SEEIA was covenanted for delivery by
       October 2006, which would have been much too early to provide adequate measurement.
       It would have been pragmatic to have amended the due date to within six months of
       closing. By early 2007, consideration was already being given to Additional Financing for
       two years, so the amendment was left pending consideration of that. However, for reasons
       advised elsewhere in this ICR, the proposed IDA Additional Financing did not proceed.
       Had IDA Additional Financing proceeded, delivery of the SEEIA would most likely have
       been re-scheduled to six months before the new designated closing date. Therefore it
       would have been beneficial to revise the Results Framework and the PDO, to reduce the
       dependency on measurement through the SEEIA.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation of LTP II started in February 2004 and preceded in parallel with the LTP I until
September 2005, when the latter was closed. Two Mid-Term Review (MTR) missions were
carried out, in May 2006 and December 2007 respectively, during which the relevancy and
adequacy of the PDO and overall project design were reconfirmed. It was not considered
necessary to restructure the project as from the time of the first MTR, the project continued to be
well on track for achieving targets and the three elements of the PDO remained achievable. Of
course it was recognized that measurement of the third PDO, regarding improvement of the
government's capacity to provide social and economic services through a broader revenue base
from property related fees and taxes, would be accomplished through the end of project impact
assessment.     Accordingly project restructuring was not required.             However, project
implementation was impacted by a number of factors, many of which were under the control of
the GoL and, in some cases, that of the implementing agency. These factors can be summarized as
follows.



                                                  7
Factors Affecting Project Implementation

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
       Lack of Definition in the Overall NLPF : Other than in the initial months of the project,
       there was little formal dialogue on land policy at high levels of government (e.g., through
       the NLPC and the PSC). While the lack of subsequent formal dialogue could be perceived
       by Western observers as the result of lack of engagement on the part of top government
       authorities, the large number of decrees on key land issues issued by the Prime Minister's
       Office during the past five years suggests that a `policy dialogue' has been indeed taking
       place, although not in the public arena. Given the inherent complexities of land issues, the
       fluidity of the policy environment in Laos, and the extraordinary pressures arising from
       fast economic development, a certain amount of `muddling through' should be expected.
       However, the uncertainties in the policy and regulatory framework with respect to land are
       becoming increasingly evident, threatening the achievements made so far in improving
       land tenure security.

       Major Institutional Restructuring: The revised Land Law of October 2003 called for the
       establishment of the National Land Management Authority (NLMA) under the Office of
       the Prime Minister. Although the NLMA was formally approved in March 2004, it was
       the GoL's decision to proceed with its actual establishment only in December 2006. The
       creation of the NLMA was welcome by the Bank and its partners, as a single agency now
       had a broad mandate over land issues. However, the establishment of the NLMA five
       years into the life of the project severely disrupted its implementation, as the transition to
       the new institutional framework resulted in a significant loss in capacity and dilution of
       resources.

       Inadequate Allocation of Budget and Staffing for the Newly Created NLMA: A further
       impact of the establishment of NLMA was that the resources allocated to it were not in
       line with its responsibilities, and significantly impacted some aspects of project
       implementation through dilution of staffing support to implement the project. As a result,
       many positions at the national, provincial and district level still remain open and a large
       proportion of the NLMA staff are hired on a contractual basis.

       Expanded Land Titling Coverage: GoL's land titling objectives were also expanded with
       the creation of the NLMA. In May 2007, the decision was made at a National Land
       Conference to accelerate land titling efforts and extend them to the entire country to
       respond to the functions of the newly created land agency. As a result, the project's
       coverage was expanded from the fourteen (14) provinces identified in the PAD (including
       the VCC) to include all seventeen (17) provinces (VCC included) in the country. The
       expanded coverage, however, was not supported with additional government funding for
       its own operations, and this further exacerbated the NLMA's limited human capacity and
       other shortages, as mentioned above.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
       NLMA's Performance: While the establishment of the NLMA had the potential to bring
       added momentum and internal consistency to the formulation and implementation of the
       GoL's land agenda, this potential has not yet materialized. The recent work of the NLMA



                                                 8
has resulted in some policy distortions and probably an institutional impasse on some land
issues. There is noticeable intransigence by special interests as well as a considerable level
of confusion and disarray in the implementation of some reforms. Furthermore, some of
the efforts being undertaken by consultants on behalf of some donors in the land
management area, in other Ministries, albeit at very small scale and well-intentioned, may
have contributed to some of the confusion in the overall NLMA agenda. Specifically:

a.   Weak Cross-sectoral Policy Dialogue: As part of its broad mandate, the NLMA is
     responsible for leading the land policy dialogue with a cross-sectoral perspective,
     coordinating the participation of the various line ministers responsible for
     environment, water, transport, forestry, mining and agriculture, among others. Under
     these arrangements, land policy coordination is a committee functioning under the
     Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister and with the NLMA providing the
     Secretariat. However, these institutional arrangements have not improved land
     policy development process, due to diminution of broader stakeholder consultation
     in the policy formulation process. In fact, since late 2007, the LTP II donors have
     raised their concerns on the adequacy of stakeholder consultation on policy
     formulation and on the findings of the policy studies supported under LTP II. Whilst
     land policy may be under the Cabinet, for most aspects, NLMA has actually
     internalized the preparation of policy including the NLPF, effectively replacing the
     NLPC with an internal NLMA working group. This has led to a significant
     reduction in transparency.

b.   Weakening of Partnerships With Other Institutions: The relationship with other
     project partners weakened after the creation of the NLMA. While NGD (which
     provided mapping and geodetic survey control), the PC (which developed and
     implemented the land administration education programs) and the LWU (which
     support CES) continued to participate in LTP II and to contribute substantially to its
     implementation, they had less access to financing and faced more cumbersome
     administrative procedures, which negatively affected their ability to provide the
     services agreed. After project completion, the NGD was requested to return to the
     NLMA the technical equipment that had been procured under LTP II.

c.   Lack of Effective Communications within the NLMA: Information within NLMA
     departments at the national level is highly compartmentalized. Likewise, effective
     communication between the central and provincial offices is lacking. Decisions are
     taken at the central level without consultation with provincial offices. Likewise, new
     procedures are adopted at the central level without adequate training and
     dissemination at the sub-national level.

d.   Institutional Restructuring Under NLMA: Recent changes in the NLMA's
     institutional arrangements have not always been conducive to supporting the overall
     land reform agenda. For example, CES activities were transferred from the DoL to
     the Land and Natural Resources Information Research Center (LNRIRC). As a result
     of this change, the CES function was seriously affected by a lack of support and
     resources. The production of CES materials was delayed due to budgetary delays
     and NLMA personnel at the provincial level were reassigned to other activities not


                                          9
            covered under the LTP II. The funding for the LWU was consistently delayed, with
            agreed budgets being released up to five months late in some provinces, often
            resulting in the cancellation of activities. Concerns were consistently expressed by
            the supervision missions since March 2007, but support for CES activities within the
            NLMA remained weak.

       e.   Major Strategic Change Within the NLMA: Under the NLMA, the focus shifted
            away from land titling and the protection of existing use rights to an approach that
            prioritizes land use planning and negates existing land use rights when at odds with
            the development needs of either the public sector (in the case of new or expanded
            roads and other infrastructure works) or, more worrisome, private interests (mainly
            in the form of land concessions for a variety of uses, from tourism to agro-business
            and forestalling exploitation). While LTP II was implemented following the original
            strategy and in accordance all the Bank's social safeguards, the NLMA has been
            slowly re-orienting its resources to pursue the new strategy. In fact, in future
            NLMA's work plans, land titling comes only after land use planning has been
            completed, with land titles recognizing only those use rights that are consistent with
            the land use plan and, in practice, without proper compensation for those cases in
            which rights are affected in the process. Indeed it was the change in focus of
            NLMA, together with the disproportionate re-allocation of project resources to some
            of its constituent units, especially LNRIRC, which precluded any extension of the
            IDA Credit and provision of Additional Financing.

       f.   Weak Procurement. Weak procurement, due to limited NLMA capacity, together
            with the cumbersome operations of a large procurement committee, continued to
            delay project implementation. Although at one time, an international procurement
            specialist was engaged, he failed to develop NLMA's capacity, and focused on the
            preparation and processing of procurement packages. Up until the Credit ending,
            quality management of procurement operations was very weak, with mistakes
            repeatedly made, despite intensive engagement by the Bank team, including the
            procurement hub leader. A consequence of weak procurement was the NLMA's
            inability to procure the Socio-Economic and Environmental Impact Assessment
            (SEEIA) study, which was a DCA covenant.

Weak Financial Management. For most of the project implementation period, the internal control
system for financial management was weak, and reports were frequently delayed. Following the
establishment of NLMA, there were long periods when salaries and allowances were not paid to
contract Surveying and Adjudication Team (SAT) staff and also the budget for LWU support for
CES was stopped. This slowed down field operations and hindered efforts to raise community
and public awareness.




                                               10
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project's M&E system served to effectively monitor and improve project implementation.
However, it also exhibited some weaknesses, which hindered the assessment of some of the
project's intended impacts:

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
The Project's M&E system was defined as a sub-component of Component 5 - Project
Management and Implementation. It was to be supported by two elements:

       An integrated M&E system within the DoL.

       A Socio-Economic Baseline Study (SEBS) to be completed prior to the commencement of
       LTP II and the actual impact study to be carried out in October 2006.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
       Despite delays, the M&E system was implemented as planned and is now operating within
       the NLMA. It systematically generates data on the project's outputs, such as such as the
       number of parcels adjudicated per day, compliance with service standards, and other data
       that allowed developing quality control and productivity statistics. The first MTR mission
       was critical to identifying the weaknesses in the M&E system. Whilst it took a couple of
       years for the system to become fully computerized, the overall quality, reliability and
       timeliness of project reporting ultimately achieved a very high standard, In addition, the
       system contributed significantly to annual work program planning.

       The SEBS was published October 2003, and provided a sound methodology and set of
       baseline data for a sample of villages. The follow-up SEEIA study, which would have
       repeated the measurement for the same variables in the same of villages, was never
       conducted. The study eventually did not proceed due to lengthy procurement delays.
       Unfortunately, this constitutes a lost opportunity to measure more fully the impact of LTP
       II and, more importantly, to learn more about the complex dynamics of land tenure,
       economic development and poverty alleviation at the micro-level.

 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
       The project's M&E system was a valuable tool for project management, serving a pulse-
       taking function and contributing to improving the project's efficacy and efficiency. For
       example, the systematic analysis of the M&E data served to reduce errors in land titles
       from 8.9 to 1.7 percent during 2007. However, there is little evidence that the project's
       M&E system helped improve other functions within the NLMA. For example, variables
       that could be critical inputs in the NLMA land management functions, such as whether
       registered parcels correspond to urban or agriculture land, were not included in the system.
       Likewise, the State Assets Management office, which is responsible for state land, has
       only been given an aggregate figure of the land titles issued for state land, and no
       additional information that would be useful in enhancing the management of state land,
       such as geographical location, area, etc. Finally, the sustainability of the M&E system




                                               11
       beyond the life of the project will depend on the adoption of institutional mechanisms to
       ensure ongoing reporting on the part of PLOs.

       As noted earlier, the Project's impact could be only partially assessed, as the SEEIA was
       not undertaken.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards
The only environmental safeguards implications of the LTP II were in relation to civil works for
the construction and renovation of land office buildings. The environmental safeguards were fully
complied with, including government requirements for civil works. All buildings were
constructed on state land that was not subject to environmental concerns. Land titles were issued
for residential land and some permanent agriculture land; hence there were no environmental
issues associated with change in land use as a result of title issuance.

Social Safeguards
All civil works undertaken during under LTP II were on state land that was not occupied.
Therefore, there was no involuntary re-settlement or land acquisition that would be covered under
the Resettlement Policy Framework of the agreed Environment and Social Safeguard Guidelines.
With regards to titling, there was no re-settlement caused by titling, as titling fundamentally
confirmed, officially, the existing possessory rights of land holders The project implemented
preventive mechanisms, such as village profiling prior to beginning of project activities, to ensure
full compliance with social safeguards. Accordingly, the project, also did not impact Indigenous
Peoples and it not impact Cultural Property. The project also implemented the approved
Ministerial Instruction for titling of lands abutting Rights of Way (ROW) to ensure that Surveying
and Adjudication Teams (SATs) correctly followed safeguard procedures, including recording the
abuttal on title certificates.

Financial Management
Several challenges were faced in the financial management of LTP II, including: (a) longstanding
counterpart funds arrears totaling over US$230,000 which were only refunded in late 2008; (b)
recurrent delays and incompleteness of financial monitoring reports (FMR) and audit reports; (c)
weak internal controls, particularly on petty cash management, fixed assets and bank
reconciliations, which were exacerbated by the geographic dispersion of implementation
activities; and (d) weak accounting staff capacity. These challenges were gradually addressed
over the life of the project and, at the time of the project's completion, all financial management
issues had been satisfactorily resolved. There were also systemic delays in the payments of
salaries and allowances to contract SAT staff and allowances to LWU staff, preventing their
timely completion of programmed tasks. These outstanding payments were to be paid from the
NLMA government budget.

Procurement
Persistent weaknesses in procurement were a challenge throughout the life of the project,
negatively affecting its implementation. SATs were unable to perform their functions as
programmed, due to long delays in the procurement of vehicles, surveying equipment, drawing
instrument, card box, plastic envelopes, printing forms, and land boundary markers due to the
incomplete and/or conflicting information in the bid evaluation reports (BER). By the end of the


                                                12
project, all critical procurement issues had been satisfactorily resolved, except the contracting of
the SEEIA study, which was finally cancelled as time had run out to allow for its completion.

Compliance with DCA Covenants
Compliance with the DCA covenants was generally late throughout the life of the project. As
mentioned earlier in section 2.1, there were too many covenants included in the DCA. Some of
the covenants related to institutional restructuring of DoL (the initial designated implementing
agency), and compliance with these was outside of the control of DoL itself. Ultimately, with the
establishment of NLMA at the end of 2006, the DCA was subsequently amended to reflect the
change in implementing agency from DoL (which became subordinate to NLMA). There was
only one significant non-compliance and that was the failure to undertake the SEEIA, which was
due October 31, 2006. However, scheduling of the delivery of the SEEIA by such an early date,
almost 3 years before the scheduled closing of the Credit, was too soon, and would have provided
unreliable, premature assessment of project impacts. In hindsight, it would have been better to
revise the due date of this covenant to within six months of the scheduled Credit closing date,
around January 2009. Furthermore, a number of other DCA covenants should have been
amended, including: the requirement for formal adoption by the National Assembly of the NLPF
and implementation of restructuring of DoL, which were beyond the control of the project. The
inclusion as a DCA covenant for full computerization of the M&E system, was not necessary,
especially when a manual system could deliver similar benefits.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The closing of LTP II effectively represents the end of the long-term IDA support to the GoL's
efforts to enhance tenure security and develop a land registration system, which began in the early
1990s with the preparation of LTP I. At this point, no future operations for further land titling and
registration are programmed in IDA's pipeline. Although there had been IDA approval for the
preparation of Additional Financing of US$5 million for LTP2, the new priorities for the land
agenda set by NLMA were not consistent with the developments under LTP I and LTP II and
were seen as not being conducive to broadening tenure security. As agreement could not be
reached with NLMA, the Bank declined to proceed with IDA Additional Financing.

AusAID formally ended its support on June 30, 2009, advising that its objectives had largely been
achieved and no further support was envisaged for the land sector as the Australian government
had decided to re-structure its country assistance into fewer sectors.

Although GTZ's existing support for land policy also ended on June 30, 2009, it then began
funding a new Land Management and Registration Project. The new GTZ project is being
implemented in two provinces and is focused on: (a) land registration in a small number of rural
communities (in two provinces); (b) building the inventory of land concessions; (c) land conflict
resolution; and (d) land use planning.

LTP I and II were always seen as being the first two phases of a long-term program to establish a
national coverage of land tenure security. Overall, it has been a significant achievement that by
the end of the second phase, almost one-third of the estimated 1.6 million land parcels, suitable
for land titling, had been titled. Had the program continued, for at least another phase, it is likely
doubt that such good progress would have continued, using well-established procedures and


                                                 13
capacity, with systematic titling being undertaken in all project provinces. With the ongoing
increases in revenue generation, it could be envisaged that outcomes similar to the Thailand land
titling program may have been achieved, wherein a sustainable program supported by the
government's own budget has successfully continued. Unfortunately, the program in Laos had
not yet reached the same level of sustainability as in Thailand, and at the time of the ICR, the GoL
budget allocation for NLMA has not been adequate for sustainability of a large-scale land titling
program across all project provinces. This is further discussed in Section 4

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of LTP II remain of utmost relevancy and are fully aligned to the strategic
objectives of the GoL as reflected in its National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
(NGPES). These objectives are also critical as the GoL continues to transition into a market
economy, as they provide the foundation for the development of efficient land markets.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall, the project's objectives have been moderately achieved. Overall the project had many
positive outcomes, especially in terms of meeting or exceeding key project targets for land titling,
service delivery, capacity building, education and land valuation reform Significant progress has
been made under the project toward enhancing land tenure security, building land administration
institutions at the central and provincial levels, and expanding property-related revenues. There is
overall positive development of the formal land market through: (a) strong public awareness of
the importance and value of land titling; (b) gender equity in land ownership; and (c) a growing
mortgage sector to support development. However, there are critical weaknesses in the areas of:
(a) the openness of land policy development and consultation; (b), transparency and
accountability in the institutional application of policy for land acquisition and management of
concessions; and (c) the sustainability of a national land administration system if inadequate
funding is continued to be provided through recurrent government budget.

PDO 1: To Improve the Security of Land Tenure - Achievement of this PDO is considered
satisfactory, as security of land tenure was improved for the 381,800 recipients of land titles.
Under Lao' law, land titles provide land owners the greatest proof of their land rights than any
other document, as the title is registered and recorded in the official land office. In addition, the
KPIs indicate that individuals and financial institutions do indeed place value on land titles, as
shown by an increase in registered transactions, particularly sales, as well as collateralized loans.
Ultimately, of course, the security of the land use rights embedded in land titles needs to be
demonstrated by a consistent record of official actions honoring such rights.

Under the current legislation, `a land title is the only one document that is taken as the main
evidence for permanent use rights' (Land Law, Article 49). 4 Thus, a land title constitutes an


4
     Land Law, Oct. 21, 2003. It is important to note that, in the context of Laos, land security is defined in terms of
use rights rather than property rights. Specifically, as stated in Article 3, `land of Lao PDR is under the ownership of
the national community as prescribed in Article 17 of the Constitution, in which the State is charged with


                                                          14
improvement with respect to the other documents traditionally used to prove tenure rights, such as
land acquisition certificates, land certificates in the case of agriculture and forestry land, and land
tax receipts. Long-standing boundary disputes were settled as part of the land titling process.
Parcels were systematically surveyed, with location, area, and boundaries being formally defined
and recorded in the cadastral maps. Parcels were also adjudicated and registered using procedures
in accordance with existing land law and regulations. Land titles were subsequently issued and
distributed to owners. Land titles are the only land tenure documents that are systematically
registered by the government.5

Overall, the specific KPIs associated with this PDO consistently exceed the original targets. 6
These indicators, which reflect the actual behavior of individuals and financial institutions, signal
that these economic agents do place a monetary value on formal land titles. Specifically, the
increase in registered subsequent transactions indicates that individuals are willing to pay the
corresponding fees to formally register subsequent sales. Likewise, the increase in the number of
mortgage-backed loans shows that, when a land title is offered as collateral, financial institutions
are more willing to extend business loans. The performance of the KPIs related to the first PDO
can be summarized as follows:

         The number of registered subsequent land transactions, including, among others sales,
         leases, inheritance and sub-divisions, roughly doubled over the life of the project, from
         17,000 in Project Year (PY) 2003 to 2004 to almost 35,000 in project 2007 to 2008,
         equivalent to a 106 percent increase, thus amply exceeding the 30 percent target (see
         Figure1). However, there are significant variations depending on the type of transaction.
         For example, while registered sales increased from 0 to 2,687 during this period,
         registered leases decreased from 671 to 98 (see Table 1). This indicates that those
         purchasing land place a monetary value on formally registering the transaction and,
         consequently, are willing to pay the corresponding fees. Conversely, landlords and tenants
         do not. (Data were not available for project 2008 to 2009). The exact reasons for the
         increased transactions were an issue that would have been covered by the proposed SEEIA.
         However, in the absence of the SEEIA, it is assumed that the growth in subsequent
         transactions was due to the effectiveness of the CES program which informed people of
         the benefits of first time registration, subsequent registrations and working within the
         formal land market. It was also apparent that as a critical mass of first registration
         occurred, and public awareness increased, there was increasing investment in land and
         property which was clearly evident through development and building activity especially
         in urban and peri-urban areas. However, as other factors also contributed to increased


management in a central and uniform manner throughout the country and allocating it to individuals, families, and
economic organizations for use, lease or concession...'
5
     For example, land certificates were issued to individual households in 5,400 villages as part of the systematic
allocation of agriculture land implemented until 2003. However, these certificates were not recorded and, in those
cases in which they have been lost or destroyed, there is no official record that can be used to re-issue them.
6
     Three of the Key Performance Indicators associated with PDO 1 could not be measured due to the lack of
systematic data. These indicators, which were not included in the DCA, are: (a) increased household incomes in the
project areas; (b) increased household incomes in the project areas; and (c) increased level of resolution of land
disputes. Regarding the last one, it can be expected that the systematic land titling program has served to settle many
long-standing disputes between neighbors, since boundary disputes were systematically addressed as part of the
process of adjudication.


                                                         15
          development including FDI, it is difficult to assess the extent to which the titling program
          itself has driven the increase in subsequent transactions.

                                                     Figure 1. Evolution of Registered Subsequent Transactions ­
                                                                 PY 2003 to 2004 and to 2007 to 2008

                                                  40,000
      # of registered subsequent




                                                                                                                           34,973
                                                  35,000
                                                  30,000
                                   transactions




                                                                target: 30% increase
                                                  25,000
                                                                                                                 21,246
                                                  20,000                           20,407         19,924
                                                  15,000            17,009
                                                  10,000
                                                   5,000
                                                     -
                                                              2003-04        2004-05        2005-06        2006-07        2007-08




                                                         Table 1. Number of Registered Subsequent Transactions
                                                                       ­ FY 2003-04 to 2007-08

          Type of                                                        Number of Registered Subsequent Transactions                      Change
          Transaction                                          2003-04       2004-05          2005-06        2006-07        2007-08          (%)
          Sale                                                         -               -              -           1,555          2,687           -
          Transfer                                                  4,779           6,147          5,713          4,703          7,435        55.6
          Mortgage                                                  3,271           3,937          3,325          3,700          6,791       107.6
          Inheritance                                                 212             285            363            499            608       186.8
          Exchange                                                     -               -              -             370            160           -
          Sale contract                                                -               -              -               6             -            -
          Lease                                                       671             122               23           88               98     -85.4
          Consolidation                                               120             220            256            245            360       200.0
          Subdivision                                              1,519            2,197          2,748          2,868          4,552       199.7
          Others                                                    6,437           7,499          7,496          7,212        12,282         90.8
          Total                                                   17,009          20,407         19,924         21,246         34,973        105.6

   Source: NLMA (2009)
   Note: Data for FY 2008-09 were not available, except for VCC.

   Formal lending in which parcels with land titles are used as collateral increased substantially
   over the life of the project. Specifically, the number of registered mortgages roughly doubled
   over the life of the project, from 3,271 to 6,791 between project year 2003 to 2004 and 2007
   to 2008, equivalent to a 108 percent increase, thus amply exceeding the 30 percent target (see
   Table 1 and Figure 2). Data for the Vientiane Capital City (VCC) indicate that the number of
   mortgage-backed loans continued to increase during FY 2008 to 2009, by 30 percent between
   October 2008 and August 2009. VCC accounted for roughly 41 percent of all registered
   mortgages during project year 2007 to 2008. Unfortunately, aggregate data for all
   participating provinces were not available for FY 2008 to 2009.




                                                                                        16
                                    Figure 2. Evolution of Registered Mortgages ­ FY 2003-04 to 2007-08
                                        8,000

                                        7,000                                                                   6,791
                             ortgages


                                        6,000
                                                   target: 30% increase
                                        5,000
            # of registered m




                                        4,000                             3,937
                                                                                                    3,700
                                                      3,271                            3,325
                                        3,000

                                        2,000

                                        1,000

                                          -
                                                2003-04       2004-05             2005-06      2006-07      2007-08



        The average loan size also increased during the life of the project (no target was defined).
        Mortgage registration fees increased from LAK 1.1 to 3.3 billion between project year
        2004 to 2005 and 2007 to 2008, indicating that the average mortgage size increased by
        roughly 12.8 percent in participating provinces after adjusting for inflation and the number
        of mortgages registered.7 Data on mortgage registration fees in VCC indicate more robust
        increases in the average mortgage size in the capital city, equivalent to a 17.9 annual
        percent increase in real terms between project year 2003 to 2004 and to 2007 to 2008. This
        suggests that, as it could be expected, land prices have been increasing more rapidly in the
        capital city than in the country as a whole.

        External sources confirm the increasingly important role being played by land titles in
        energizing credit markets. Officials from the Laos Development Bank (LDB), which is the
        largest state-own commercial bank serving small and medium businesses (SMBs), report
        that 96 percent of their portfolio of SMBs loans has a land title as collateral. Collateralized
        lending for small and medium businesses has increased exponentially over the past few
        years, with the LDB's portfolio increasing by a factor of 4.3 between 2003 and 2008 after
        adjusting for inflation. The average loan size also increased significantly, by over 25
        percent per year in real terms between 2006 and 2008, with interest rates being reduced by
        two percentage points during the same period.




7
 During this period, the registration fee for mortgages was equivalent to 0.1 percent of the value of the mortgage.
Consequently, the average loan size can be determined based on the number of registered loans and the
corresponding mortgage registration fees.



                                                                           17
These indicators point to robust growth in financial transactions that are backed by land titles.
While it not possible to determine to what extent the spur in financial activity as well as the
increase in the size of mortgages are the result of the increased security offered by land titles, the
actual behavior of both individuals and financial institutions as reflected in the KPIs consistently
signal to their importance.

PDO 2: To Develop Transparent and Efficient Land Administration Institutions at the
National and Provincial Levels - This PDO is particularly difficult to assess, as it was defined in
highly qualitative terms. However, based on the progress made in four distinctive dimensions, its
achievement is deemed moderately satisfactory. The four dimensions of analysis reflect the areas
of intervention under each of the project's substantive components, which supported the
development of: (a) NLPF; (b) the institutional capacity of the NLMA, which is Laos' designated
land administration agency; (c) a land registration system; and (d) a system for land titling issuing.
Ultimately, the successful development of transparent and efficient land administration
institutions at the national and provincial levels depends on these four dimensions.

As discussed in greater detail in Annex 2 under the achievement of the individual project
components, progress toward developing Laos' land administration institutions under the project
has been considerable, albeit uneven. It can be summarized as follows:

       Although progress was made toward the development of the NLPF, the approval of new
       land-related legislation and regulations has been incremental and their implementation
       lacked consistency. Opening of the land policy dialogue into the public arena would have
       improved transparency. Achievement in this area is deemed moderately satisfactory.

       The establishment and operationalization of the NLMA, and its programs in all provinces,
       since 2007, has been a remarkable achievement. The operations of the NLMA at both
       central and provincial level have been highly dependent on access to the IDA Credit funds,
       and the "operationalization" of NLMA was largely a consequence of expansion of LTP2
       implementation and accelerated disbursement of Credit funds. However, if the Credit
       funds had not been available, the "operationalization" of NLMA would have been modest.
       With the closure of the Credit, the NLMA has now been forced to wind-down a significant
       part of its programs, especially regarding tenure security at the provincial level, as
       adequate GoL budget has not been forthcoming. Thus sustainability of the NLMA's
       programs remain at high risk. Achievement in this area is deemed moderately
       unsatisfactory.

       There was also substantial progress toward setting in place a land registration system,
       particularly in the nine provinces that implemented the `Model Land Office.' Progress in
       development and institutional capacity-building was also made in the remaining eight
       provinces, with registration service standards having been developed and applied.
       Achievement in this area is deemed satisfactory.

       There were remarkable achievements in the implementation of an effective system for
       issuing land titling, as illustrated by the impressive number of titles being issued and
       distributed among beneficiaries, as well as the percentage of those that were issued jointly


                                                 18
         to spouses or in the name of women. Achievement in this area is deemed highly
         satisfactory.

PDO 3: To Improve the Government's Capacity to Provide Social and Economic Services Through
Broader Revenue Base from Property Related Fees and Taxes - The achievement of this objective
is considered to be satisfactory. The increase in revenues from property-related fees and taxes
amply surpassed the 30 percent target specified in the DCA, both in nominal and real terms.
Specifically, land-related taxes and fees increased from LAK 28.3 to LAK 87.3 between PY 2002
to 2003 and 2008 to 2009, equivalent to over 200 percent (see Table 3 and Figure 4). 8 After
adjusting for inflation, the overall increase during the same period is equivalent to 86 percent, i.e.,
roughly three times the original target. The increase in property-related fees and taxes was
directly due to the land registration system covering more titled land parcels.

    Table 2: Evolution in Property-related Taxes and Fees ­ PY 2002 to 2003 to 2008 to 2009

Type of Revenue                   2002-03        2003-04        2004-05        2005-06        2006-07        2007-08        2008-09              % increase
                                      a              b              c              d              e              f              g                ((g-a)/a)*100
Nominal Lao Kips, Billions
Land Tax                                  24.0           25.2           27.6           30.1           35.4           57.2        63.8                  165.7
Registration Fees                          4.3            6.2            7.8            9.1           11.7           18.9        23.4                  448.7
                                                                                                                                           (1)
Other Fees                                 1.6            1.5            1.9            1.8            1.6            1.9       187.3                11426.8
Total
   With "Other Fees"                  29.9           32.9           37.4           41.0           48.7           78.0          274.6                    817.7
   Without "Other Fees"               28.3           31.4           35.5           39.2           47.1           76.1           87.3                    208.4
2000 Lao Kips, Billions
Land Tax                                  20.1           18.3           18.2           18.5           20.3           31.4           32.3                 60.2
Registration Fees                          3.6            4.5            5.2            5.6            6.7           10.4           11.9                230.9
Other Fees                                 1.4            1.1            1.2            1.1            0.9            1.0           94.7               6851.1
Total
   With "Other Fees"                  25.1           23.9           24.6           25.1           27.9           42.8          138.9                    453.4
   Without "Other Fees"               23.7           22.8           23.3           24.0           27.0           41.8           44.1                     86.0
In                                  2002           2003           2004           2005           2006           2007           2008
   Consumer prices (annual %)                       15.5%          10.5%           7.2%           6.8%           4.5%           8.6%
(1) During PY 2008-09, revenues under "Other Fees" correspond mainly to concessions.
Sources: Land-related revenues (NLMA, 2009) ; Inflation rate ­ consumer prices: World Development Indicators for 2003-2007
(World Bank, 2007); CIA World Factbook for 2008 (est.).




8
     To avoid distorting the comparison, revenues from `Other Fees' have been excluded, since in FY 2008-09 these
include revenues for land concessions for the first time in the period being analyzed.


                                                                          19
                                        Figure 4: Evolution in Property-related Taxes and Fees
                                        ­ PY 2002 to 2003 to 2008 to 2009 (2000 LAK - billion)9

                         45

                         40
     2000 LAK Billions




                                                target: 30% increase
                         35
                         30
                         25
                         20
                         15
                         10
                         5
                         0
                              2002-03      2003-04    2004-05          2005-06   2006-07   2007-08   2008-09


While revenues from property-related fees and taxes have undoubtedly increased during the life
of the project, it is difficult to assess to what extent this increase has actually translated into an
improved government capacity to provide social and economic services. It is noted that land taxes
are used to pay for salaries and administrative costs at the village and district levels. 10 Thus,
although there is a considerable level of ambiguity in the definition of the third PDO, its
achievement is considered satisfactory given the ample margin by which the actual increase in
revenues exceeded the target and the structure of revenue sharing for land taxes, by which they
remain at the local level, enabling funding of local officials and village expenditures. This could
have been confirmed through the SEEIA, had it been undertaken.




9
     Other fees, such as concessions are excluded from this. Refer to footnote 7.
10
    A portion of land tax revenues, between 4 to 60 percent, depending on the area, remains at the village level,
where 60 percent is used to pay the salary of the tax collector and the remaining 40 percent is used to finance
administrative expenditures of the village. The district's share is transferred to the district's Finance Office with
supporting documentation from the district Land Management Authority. It is used mainly to pay for recurrent
expenditures, including salaries and operational costs (Source: personal interview with management of the VCC Land
Office).


                                                                        20
A detailed description of the main achievements under each of the substantive components is
provided in Annex 2.

Performance of Individual Project Components

 Component 1 - Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework
 Expected      Key land policies have been formulated and the supporting regulatory
 Outcome       instruments have been developed and adopted.

 Rating        Moderately Satisfactory
 Strengths        The NLMA has provided input in the preparation of various decrees
                  addressing important land policy issues that have been enacted since 2007.

                  The National Land Policy Framework has now completed and is expected
                  to be presented to the National Assembly during 2010.

                  Thirteen studies on key land policy issues were conducted under the LTP
                  II.
 Weaknesses       There were years of delays in the preparation of the NLPF. It has not been
                  formally adopted as anticipated at Appraisal.

                  The NLPF does not appear to reflect the consensus of the main
                  stakeholders. Rather, it seems the result of an incremental process of policy
                  making. As a result, implementation of the various decrees and regulations
                  is greatly inconsistent.

                  Throughout the life of the project, donors have expressed the need to have
                  more engagement on the part of top national authorities on land policy
                  issues and to broaden consultation within the government and other
                  stakeholders.

                It is unclear how the findings from these studies financed under the LTP II
                have been incorporated into subsequent land policies and regulations or
                discussed with other stakeholders.
 Component 2 - Institutional Development
 Expected      DoL has the institutional capacity to undertake its mandate in an efficient,
 outcome       effective, and sustainable manner.
 Rating        Moderately Unsatisfactory
 Strengths      The NLMA was implemented in December 2006. Despite an initial
                 capacity loss as a result of the transition, the NLMA has gradually built its
                 institutional and technical capacity at the central and provincial levels.

                  The long-term human capacity building activities under the responsibility
                  of the Polytechnic College (PC) have been highly successful. Over 250



                                              21
                students (including 93 women) have obtained Higher Diplomas of
                Surveying and Land Management courses during the LTP II, thus helping
                satisfy the demand for these technical skills on the part of the NLMA and
                other institutions.
Weaknesses      Weak governance within the NLMA, including poor internal
                communications at the central level and with provincial offices and
                excessive concentration of resources and decision making power in
                selected units, undermines the agency's institutional capacity.

                Inadequate budgetary allocations and a large proportion of NLMA
                contracted staff, both at the central and provincial levels pose a threat to the
                agency's long-term institutional development.

                The responsibility for land tax collection was placed once again under the
                NLMA, reverting a previous decision to make it independent of the land
                agency (the DoL at the time). Even more worrisome, since 2009, the
                NLMA is also responsible for collection of concession fees, which are
                equivalent to roughly twice the amount of other property-related revenues.
                This creates a tension between the objectives of maximizing revenues and
                managing land resources in a sustainable and equitable manner.

                Lack of clarity in the criteria informing some of NLMA's decisions, such
                as the modification of the fee structure for the registration of mortgages,
                replacing a fee proportional to the size of the loan with a flat fee, which
                both reduces revenues significantly and is regressive from an equity
                perspective.
Component 3 - Development of a Modern Land Registration System
Expected
             A well functioning land registration system is in place.
outcome
Rating       Satisfactory
Strengths     Most of the progress under this component was achieved in the initial nine
                provinces that had actually commenced under the LTP I. These provinces
                implemented the Model Land Office and also made considerable progress
                in the back-up of land records, with the PLOs scanning land records and
                the LNRIRC scanning the land books. In addition, loose-leaf paper
                registration books and new format land titles were adopted.

                Uniform standards for land administration services have been implemented
                and are been largely met.

                CES activities, which were implemented in partnership with the LWU,
                were highly successful in raising awareness among participating
                communities, particularly women and other vulnerable groups, of their
                land rights.




                                             22
                A Valuation Information System (VIS) was implemented, including the
                creation of VIS maps and rates for selected project areas.

                The registration system for state land, previously under the responsibility
                of the DSA under the Ministry of Finance was integrated with that of the
                NLMA. Titles were issued for over 45,000 state-owned parcels covering an
                area of over 175,000 hectares in 17 provinces (VCC included).
Weaknesses      Progress in the five additional provinces originally identified in the PAD
                was limited as a result of multiple start-up problems, such as inadequate
                facilities for the operation of the PLOs and the secured storage of land
                records, and lack of vehicles for the SATs. The DCA was amended in
                October 2007 to enable these additional five provinces to be included in the
                project.

                Although the DCA was further amended in August 2008 to include the
                final three provinces, the implementation in these final three provinces was
                only at the preparation level, which involved staff training, with no actual
                titling activities being implemented.

                CES activities have gradually weakened under the NLMA. The emphasis
                on protecting the women's land rights is unlikely to be sustained.

                Further strengthening of the NLMA valuation function is urgently needed.

                The DSA has to have greater access to the information on registered state
                land to be able to enhance its management functions, which should include,
                at a minimum, keeping track of the concessions granted on state land.
Component 4 - Accelerated Land Titling through Systematic Registration
Expected
             A well functioning system for issuing land titles is in place.
outcome
Rating       Highly Satisfactory
Strengths     All land titling targets were exceeded: (a) 427,526 land parcels were
               surveyed and adjudicated, equivalent to 107 percent of the original target;
               (b) 395,279 titles were issued and registered, equivalent to 124 percent of
               the original target; and (c) 381,806 titles were actually distributed to
               beneficiaries, equivalent to 133 percent of the original target.

                A total of 148,152 titles were distributed to women compared to 92,653
                titles that were distributed to men, i.e., the number of titles distributed to
                women is 60 percent higher than those distributed to men. Therefore, this is
                seen as a very positive development impact in formalizing land titling
                including joint ownership, whilst retaining traditional values, where
                women, under customary traditions, tend to inherit the land in Laos.

                The proportion of titles distributed jointly to spouses from the already
                impressive 23.5 percent that was achieved under LTP I was almost 30


                                             23
                    percent, i.e., over the life of both LTP I & II, the share of conjugal joint
                    titles increased from less than 3 percent in PY 1995 to 1996 to over 40
                    percent in PY 2008 to 2009.

                    As of May 2009, the average error rate of all provinces was 3 percent,
                    which constitutes a significant improvement compared to roughly 9 percent
                    in 2007.

                    As of May 2009, productivity was at target, with an average adjudication
                    rate of 3.1 parcels per day per sub-SAT.

                    Coverage of titling activities had a wide territorial coverage, including 59
                    out of 141 districts (41.8 percent) in over 1,800 out of 8, 800 villages
                    (20.7percent) in 14 out of 17 provinces (VCC included).

                    An M&E system has been developed and adopted. Reports are produced
                    regularly. The M&E system has served to significantly enhance
                    effectiveness and efficiency of the land titling activities.
 Weaknesses         The average time taken from systematic adjudication to title distribution
                    had increased to 5.3 months, which is outside the project target of 4
                    months.

                    At closing, production costs per title registered were reported to be
                    US$29.4, which significantly exceeds the target of US$25. Unitary
                    production costs increased significantly after the December 2006
                    restructuring, partly as a result of losses in efficiency but also as a result of
                    including tasks other than titling in the cost calculations. Moreover, the
                    reported unitary costs cannot be considered to be fully reliable or
                    consistent, as cost basis criteria were never clearly defined.

3.3 Efficiency

The Cost Benefit Analysis Summary carried out at Appraisal (Annex 4 of the PAD) appreciated
the lack of detailed information on rural areas, including cultivation practices, and the technical
difficulties to measure incremental increases of income from titling. Instead it made an
assumption about urban land prices going up by 15 percent in five years after titling, and
remaining steady thereafter, to arrive at an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 21 percent.
At Completion, the data challenges have remained. Without the quality of data powerful enough
to distinguish increase in land prices from titling, a "lower bound" of the land price increase from
titling that would make this project have a threshold return of 12 percent was calculated. The total
value of land titled under the project was estimated to be at least US$0.6 billion. The project cost
was US$25.90 million. Consequently, a conceivable 4.8 percent one-time increase in land value
adjusted for inflation coming from titling would lead to a return above the threshold ERR of 12
percent for the project. The various other benefits of the project, e.g. that of the project having
addressed women's ownership of land, or having a well running land education system would
have to be added to the above average benefit from land titling, to obtain the full economic benefit
of the project.


                                                  24
At Appraisal, the financial benefits included in the analysis included first registration fees as well
as subsequent registration fees corresponding to sales, leases, and loans with land as collateral.
The financial costs included all project costs as well as the future management costs associated
administering the titles issued under the project, which were estimated at 2 percent of total project
cost. The Financial Rate of Return (FRR), which dealt with the financial benefits and costs to the
Government, was calculated to be 14 percent. At Completion, taking into consideration the
incremental land-related revenues collected by NLMA were roughly eight percent higher than
anticipated, the actual FRR for the project is 14 percent when maintaining all other assumptions
constant.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory. The objectives of the project
defined at the time of its approval still remain extremely relevant today. Despite the natural
disruption caused by the major institutional restructuring mid-way throughout implementation,
the program was largely implemented as planned and the foreseen program outcomes were
largely achieved and with excellent economic and financial efficiency. As further discussed in
Section 4, the major weaknesses of the operation relate to sustainability issues related to an
apparent shift in the government's approach to managing land planning rather than the operation's
overall performance or its actual achievements.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

       Poverty: Given Laos' widespread poverty, with almost 80percent of the population living
       on less than US$2 a day in 2002, LTP II is likely to have had a significant impact on
       poverty reduction, mainly by enhancing access to credit to land title recipients and by
       contributing to the country's economic growth as a whole. It is important to note, however,
       that LTP II did not benefit the very poor and that there are inherent tradeoffs between
       efficiency- versus poverty-based targeting. By focusing land titling efforts on urban and
       peri-urban areas with higher land market activity and economic growth, LTP II effectively
       maximized the efficient use of the resources and their economic impact. The latter is
       illustrated by VCC, which accounts for 29 percent of all the land titles distributed under
       LTP operations, but for over 40 percent of all registered mortgages, with an average loan
       size that is significantly larger than that for the country as a whole. There were other
       important reasons behind the targeting criteria adopted under LTP II, such as avoiding
       rural areas with complex land customary practices, including shifting cultivation and
       collective ownership. However, it is important to point out that, by focusing primarily on
       urban and peri-urban areas, the project did not benefit the very poor (e.g., urban and rural
       poverty rates were 27 and 41 percent, respectively, in 1998). Moreover, those who
       received titles under LTP II did so at below-cost, subsidized rates. As land titling activities
       move forward into rural areas without donor support, these subsidies will no longer be
       available.



                                                 25
           Gender Aspects: LTP II exhibited a remarkable performance in proactively protecting the
           rights of women with respect to land. It did so by adopting a multi-pronged strategy,
           focusing on three main fronts: (a) ensuring that the tenure rights of women are not lost
           during the transition from customary to official land systems by actively promoting gender
           sensitivity training for field adjudication staff and public education campaigns that
           explicitly addressed women's land rights issues in partnership with the LWU; (b)
           promoting the employment of women in land institutions at all levels of government; and
           (c) expanding women's access to specialized technical education at the Polytechnic
           College, thus ensuring that they are proportionately represented in the medium and long
           terms. The specific gender-related outcomes attained under LTP II attest to the
           effectiveness of its approach toward gender issues, as summarized below:

Main Gender-related Outcomes of LTP II

        Protecting Women's Land Tenure Rights

           37.5 percent of titles issued to women--compared to 23.4 percent to men.
           29.3 percent issued jointly to spouses under LTP II.
           Over the life of both LTP I & II, the share of conjugal joint title issuance increased from
           less than 3percent in PY 1996 to 1997, under LTP I to almost 40 percent, in PY 2008 to
           2009, under LTP II.11

                                                          Figure 5. Annual percentage of joint titles issued
                                                          LTP I & II ­ PY 1996 to 1997 to PY 2008 to 2009
                                     45


                                     40


                                     35
            S aeo a t le is u s( )
             h r f ll it s s e %




                                     30


                                     25


                                     20


                                     15


                                     10


                                     5


                                     0
                                          1995-   1996-    1997-   1998-   1999-   2000-    2001-   2002-   2003-   2004-   2005-   2006-   2007-   2008-
                                          1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001     2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009




        Promoting the Employment of Women in Land Institutions

           In May 2009, there were 283 females out of a total of 1121 employees in the DoL within




11
  It should be noted that a proportion of titles were also issued to DSA for state owned land parcels, e.g. for public
buildings.



                                                                                           26
       the NLMA, equivalent to 25 percent and below the 30 percent target. However, this
       constitutes a significant increase from 16 percent in November 2007.

           Central level: 22 percent females
           PLOs: 33 percent females
           SATs (260 SATs): 22 percent females

    Expanding Women' Access to Specialized Technical Education at the Polytechnic
    College

       55 percent of the students enrolled in the Higher Diploma of Surveying and Land
       Administration in 2007 to 2008 were female, exceeding the 30 percent target.


       Social Development: The decision to permanently grant existing land use rights to the
       population as part of the economic reforms introduced in 1986 can have long-term
       implications for the development of Laos. Experience throughout the world shows that
       initial patterns of land distribution are one of the key determinants of future inequality.
       Together with investments in education, agricultural extension and other programs
       targeting households in rural areas, the initial levels of low inequality associated with the
       post-war redistribution of farm land in the northern economies of East Asia are recognized
       as one of the key factors that prevented inequality from rising in an environment of fast
       economic growth. In this way, the decision of the GoL to preserve existing patterns of
       land distribution by granting land titles to occupants sets the foundation for more
       egalitarian development patterns.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As discussed throughout the report, the contribution of LTP II toward institutional strengthening
has been substantial. LTP II has contributed toward enhancing the NLMA's ability to formulate
land policy, develop and implement a system for land registration and a system for land titling at
the central and provincial levels. Over 1,000 NLMA staff have benefited directly from training
under the project. It is also worth mentioning the education of skilled professionals in surveying
and land information as a result of the partnership with the Polytechnic College under the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts ­ N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ­ N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

The LTP II has made significant strides in the technical and institutional aspects of the Lao land
administration system, but its sustainability remains an issue for concern. Several challenges are
still pending, including ensuring adequate levels of funding for the continued expansion and
operation of the system, the strengthening of the NLMA's institutional structure, and the further


                                                27
development of the policy, regulatory and administrative framework for land issues. The NLMA
has stated its intention to complete titling for the entire country by 2020 (i.e., approximately 1.6
million parcels, of which roughly 550,000 were titled under the LTP operations). This goal
appears highly unfeasible given the NLMA's institutional, technical, and financial constraints. As
mentioned earlier, it is worrisome that post-project financial support for land administration
remains insufficient. A large number of positions at both the central and sub-national levels still
remain vacant or are hired on a contractual basis and no source of continuous financing has been
identified.

Although the NLMA has delineated a decentralization strategy under which many of the
responsibilities for land titling and administration would be passed on to the districts, there are
serious doubts regarding the technical and financial feasibility of such strategy. Land
administration capacity at the district level remains largely undeveloped and the human resources
and equipment currently existing at the provincial level would be spread too thin if they were
decentralized at the district level. Moreover, the decentralization strategy envisions that
operational costs at the provincial and district levels will be financed mainly through cost
recovery. To this effect, a new fee structure has been proposed. GTZ estimates indicate that,
under the new fee structure, the titling fees for an average rural parcel would be equivalent to
roughly a monthly income of a rural household, which raises doubts regarding the willingness to
pay for titling on the part of potential title recipients.

CES activities are no longer an institutional priority within the NLMA, for which the scarcity of
staff and funding is likely to weaken dissemination activities at the community level and among
women disproportionally. Moreover, pursuing such an aggressive titling program in the absence
of a clearly defined policy and regulatory environment and a sounder governance framework
presents serious risks.

Finally, as consistently reported by NLMA authorities at the central and provincial levels, the
mounting pressure from concessions continues to pose a fundamental threat to land tenure
security for both individuals and also for state owned land.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As discussed in detail in Section 2.1, LTP II effectively built upon the design of the preceding
operation and exhibited significant strengths, including strong alignment of the project's
objectives with the strategic development objectives of the GoL and the Bank's CAS; adequate
project scope; emphasis on cross-sector institutional partnerships; strong participatory
mechanisms; and a long-term partnership with other donors. However, several weaknesses have
become evident in view of the project's implementation experience. These include: a weak
Results Framework, and an overly optimistic risk assessment. These weaknesses have negatively
impacted the operation's overall achievements and its long-term sustainability.


                                                28
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementation of the project was well monitored. Joint supervision missions, with the
project managers on the part of IDA, AusAID and GTZ, were conducted regularly. In addition to
joint supervision missions, the Bank Task Team Leader (TTL) also undertook regular short-
duration follow-up missions. The Bank had a strong supervision team, with experts on surveying,
land administration, land tenure, land policy, land information systems (LIS), valuation and land
taxation. A gender specialist was also added to the missions. Supervision reports were clear and
well structured, and systematically included the agreed action plan detailing compromises and
pending actions, which facilitated their subsequent tracking. Supervision missions were
systematically followed with a Letter from Management to the GoL emphasizing the key findings
and requesting formal action when needed. Implementation Status Result Reports (ISRs) were
candid in their ratings and assessments.

The Bank team demonstrated its ability to work closely with the other donors and the GoL.
Communications with the Borrower were open and direct, with donors clearly expressing their
concerns on a number of key issues throughout implementation. Nevertheless, a good working
relationship was maintained with the Borrower over the life of the operation.

The Bank showed flexibility, granting the GoL's requests for amendments to the DCA. It also
effectively used them as leverage for enforcing and fine-tuning compliance with safeguards. For
example, the GoL's request to extend the Land Titling Program to the entire country in early 2008
was used to obtain more stringent procedures on village selection and titling of Rights of Way to
ensure full compliance with the Bank's social safeguards. Compliance with DCA covenants,
financial administration, as well as procurement was carefully monitored over the life of the loan
and weaknesses were thoroughly addressed.

The Bank TTL succeeded in effectively managing supervision resources and in mobilizing
resources from other institutions to conduct valuable sector work on land concessions, an issue
that is proving to be critical for the sustainability of the achievements under LTP operations in the
face of mounting economic pressures on land. However, prior to the final TTL assuming his
appointment around May 2006, there was a gap in supervision for around one year between 2005
and 2006. From May 2006 onward, the project was closely supervised, with at least two intensive
supervision missions and two additional shorter, follow-up missions each year. Two MTR
missions were also conducted in 2006 and 2007, respectively.

While the project benefited from a strong field presence of the partners, AusAID and GTZ, the
institutional objectives and priorities of the various donors rarely overlapped fully. Having a
locally-based task team presence, either as TTL or co-TTL, may have been justified given the
complexity of the project, the limited capacity of the implementing agency, the need to coordinate
actions with donor partners, and the high risk associated with the compliance with social
safeguards.




                                                 29
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank's performance is deemed moderately satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the GoL supported the implementation of LTP II, eventually addressing some long-
standing delays in counterpart funding. It also demonstrated its commitment toward the
implementation of the 2003 Land Law by establishing the NLMA in 2004 and implementing in
2006. It has also enacted legislation addressing a series of key policy issues. However, it is of
utmost importance that the GoL should demonstrate its full commitment toward honoring the land
rights embedded under the over half-a-million land titles issued under LTP operations by
consistently implementing Decree 192, which defines proper compensation in the case of
resettlement. Likewise, it is also critical to provide adequate budgetary support to the NLMA to
ensure its institutional sustainability. It is also noted that compliance with several DCA legal
covenants was problematic during implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The commitment of the project implementation team within both the DoL and subsequently under
the NLMA was commendable throughout the life of the project. However, as described
throughout the report, the quality of implementation was uneven, with persistent weaknesses in
financial administration and procurement functions that negatively affected project
implementation. The establishment of the NLMA mid-way the life of the project resulted in
substantial capacity losses. While capacity was gradually rebuilt, the NLMA never became fully
aligned with some of the project's priorities. In particular, the priority attached to CES was
reduced with the creation of the NLMA. The diminishing CES activity at a time when the
government is pushing for the rapid expansion of land allocation and titling activities to new
locations is a serious shortcoming, as it is the lack of sound community mobilization and gender
awareness, which might undermine individual and community land rights. Finally, the
cancellation of the SEEIA was another important shortcoming on the part of the NLMA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower's performance is deemed moderately satisfactory for the reasons stated above.




                                                30
6. Lessons Learned

Lessons of General Application
Reform of land administration is a long-term endeavor that requires decades of investment of
capital and human resources and sustained commitment. However, the path towards reform of
land reform is rarely straight-forward, and commitment on the part of authorities is often neither
sustained nor consistent. Thus, a support strategy should balance a clear sense of direction and
priorities with a significant dose of pragmatism. This project could have benefited from a more
stable policy framework and closer engagement between the donors and the government. It is
important that reform is demand driven, i.e. by the government, rather than supply driven, i.e. by
the donors.

In most societies, there are many competing demands on land, including, among many others,
economic development, food security, and environmental protection. There are also many
conflicting interests of the various stakeholders. Therefore, it is unrealistic to expect that the
policy debate over land issues will not be affected by the tensions arising from these competing
demands. Best practices demonstrate that highly consultative approaches to policy formulation,
together with open and transparent information dissemination, provide the best balance in
achieving outcomes. The improvements made from LPT I to LPT II clearly demonstrate the
benefits of improved consultation, for example in terms of women's access to title and overall
public awareness raising. However, there were areas under LTP II where consultation could have
improved through more open and transparent processes, for example land acquisition and
compensation.

Laws on compulsory acquisition of land by the state as well as those regulating private
concessions, including compensation, are key components of any strategy aimed at enhancing
land security. However, public powers of land acquisition should be used for the purposes of
public good and not for supporting private land development.

Customary land practices are often designed as safety nets to protect the most vulnerable groups,
including women. Thus, it is of the utmost importance not to undermine these safety nets when
transitioning from customary rights to state land tenure and administration systems. The project's
multi-pronged approach to gender issues incorporates all the elements of good practice.

Given the complexity and long-term nature of land institutions, the forging of strong partnerships
with a wide range of development partners, civil society organizations and academic institutions
should be emphasized under land management projects. The partnerships with the NGD, the
LWU and the Polytechnic College under LTP operations demonstrate that these partnerships
could result in gains for all parties.

There are trade-offs between efficiency versus poverty-informed targeting. Often, poverty
alleviation refers only to economic development. While it is undeniable that economic growth is
one of the key factors underlying reductions in poverty, it remains of critical importance to
directly target the poor in the context of land reform and land administration. Therefore, in
addition to efficiency, it is important to also consider the many social issues associated with
security of land ownership as part of the overall project's design, and targeting in particular.


                                               31
Project Specific Lessons
There is a risk when measurement of project impact depends on a self-standing study to be
completed toward the end of the life of the project. In the case of LTP II, relying too heavily on a
self-standing impact assessment unrelated to the ongoing M&E system resulted in the inability to
fully measure the project's impact.

LTP II was a complex and challenging project. Although it was intensively supervised by the
Bank's supervision team and donor partners, the lack of a local Bank staff member was a limiting
factor in monitoring project implementation and engaging with the implementing agency, donor
partners and other stakeholders, in project, sectoral and cross-sectoral activities on an on-going
basis.

Project expansion from nine to all seventeen provinces in the final 12 to 18 months of the project
should be driven by pragmatic requirements such as available funding, capacity, sound project
planning and so forth, rather than pure political drivers.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

A summary of the implementing agency's project report is at Annex 7. The following are
comments from World Bank on the implementing agency's report:
       Overall Progress. It is agreed that the majority of project targets for the project were
       reached, and in some cases exceeded.
       Project Supervision and Stronger Engagement in the Land Sector would have Improved
       through a Local Bank Presence. It is agreed that an established in-country Bank presence
       would have improved supervision performance and enabled a more timely engagement in
       the land sector and provided a better balance to sectoral inputs. The land sector is
       extremely complex and challenging and engagement cannot be satisfactorily undertaken
       on a mere mission basis.
       Linking of land classification with land titling. Although the implementing agency's
       report is not expansive on this issue, it became very apparent during the final year of
       implementation, and especially for the consideration of possible Additional Financing,
       that NLMA wished to change the focus of the project from land titling to land
       classification and completion of a national master plan, prior to undertaking land titling.
       The Bank's concern was that this would lead to requiring a regularization of existing land
       use to the new land classifications, which could undermine long-established possessory
       rights. Such concerns are especially relevant given the growing pressures from foreign
       direct investment (FDI) involving land development, where land classifications may be
       changed to meet the needs of investors, and land owners without formal title received no
       compensation for land that was acquired using public powers of land acquisition. In
       addition, even those that had title, may have their land compulsorily acquired with
       inadequate compensation.




                                                32
       Project Expansion from 9 to 17 Provinces (VCC included). It is agreed that the expansion
       was too ambitious in light of NLMA limited capacity and the lack of annual recurrent and
       capital budget funding by GoL. However, NLMA is congratulated for the progress made.
       Unit Titling Costs. The cost basis and assumptions have not been adequately defined so it
       is difficult to prove conclusively the final outcomes. However, there is no doubt that
       efficiency of titling continued to improve throughout the project implementation period, as
       experience was gained and capacity developed, so it may be expected that unit costs
       would have come down.
       CES. It is the view of the Bank, supported by comments from LWU, PLOs, AusAID and
       GTZ that CES performance has weakened since its line of reporting changed from DoL to
       LNRIRC. Furthermore, based on advice from LWU, the allocation of resources including
       budget to CES and the support from LWU has been blocked by LNRIRC. It is presumed
       that such resources are now allocated to other LNRIRC priorities.
       Project Management. In regards to project management, planning, reporting, constructive
       engagement, the Bank agrees that NLMA and previously DoL performed very well.
       Especially during the second half of the project period, the quality and timeliness of
       project report was very good. The residual weaknesses in project management remained
       in the procurement and financial management functions.
       M&E. The borrower's comments are agreed.
The implementing agency reviewed the draft ICR Report and advised on May 19, 2010, that it
had no further comments. A copy of this letter is included in Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

Refer to Annex 8.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders

During interviews conducted during the ICR mission, representatives from the three institutional
partners expressed their satisfaction for having participated in the LTP II in terms of both their
contribution to the project and their own benefit. Specifically:

       National Geographic Department (NGD): The NGD reported that the technical support
       they received under LTP operations, i.e., training and equipment, served not only to
       effectively support the geodetic surveying activities under LTP II but also to strengthen
       the NGD's own technical and institutional capacity. The NGD's contribution to LTP
       operations included: (a) being responsible for the geodetic surveying activities during the
       first phase of implementation; (b) providing aerial photos; and (c) providing surveying
       support in highly dense areas. The NGD received substantial training under LTP
       operations, in land surveying, Global Positioning System (GPS) and English classes, i.e.,
       30 out of 120 NGD staff members received training, which, in turn, provided training to
       the rest of the staff. In addition, a network of 110 survey control points was developed
       under the project, which allows surveyors and engineers throughout the country to locate
       their surveys with respect to the NGD survey control system.


                                               33
   Lao Women Union (LWU): It stressed the importance of protecting women's land rights in
   the transition from customary-based to state-managed land registration systems. The LWU
   representative emphasized that, while women often received land as an inheritance, they
   tend to use the name of the husband when completing land-related documents such as land
   tax-receipts or land use certificates. As a result, land ownership is often unintentionally
   altered under the land titling process. Under LTP operations, particularly LTP II, the LWU
   Right Protection Division actively participated to ensure that women's legitimate
   ownership rights are preserved during the titling process. LWU is fully aware of the
   importance of sustaining a high level of engagement in the field in the future. To this
   effect, it is mobilizing its provincial and field offices and is planning on utilizing the
   educational materials developed under the project to support their future training and field
   operations.

   Polytechnic College (PC): Its administrators emphasized the importance of the resources
   received under project including: (a) expansion of a building; (b) purchase of surveying
   equipment; and (c) support for curricular development in surveying, mapping and
   topography, valuation, and land administration. They emphasized how the advice they
   received early on from the Bank team helped them conceive LTP resources as seed money
   that could be used to strengthen the education programs even beyond the life of the project.
   In this way, the initial two-year basic diploma degree subsequently evolved into a two-
   and-a-half-year high-level diploma degree. A five-year bachelor's program in surveying
   and land administration is now underway, with the first class being scheduled to graduate
   in 2010. There is a high demand for PC land administration graduates not only from DoL
   and the NGD, but also from the construction and agriculture sectors as well. Cooperation
   agreements for teacher training have been signed with Vietnam and China. The PC has
   recently received a technical assistance grant from the Australian government (including
   training and equipment) to set up a GIS classroom. The PC is also partnering in the
   implementation of other IDA projects focusing on mining and electricity. In summary, the
   inclusion of the PC under LTP operations has been highly successful in creating a long-
   term supply of qualified human resources with skills relevant to land administration and
   management.




                                           34
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
            Components                                                  Estimate
                                           (USD million)                                        Appraisal
                                                                      (USD million)
Development of the land policy
                                                     3.00                      1.48                     49.3
and regulatory framework
Institutional development                            1.96                      1.12                    57.14
Development of a modern land
                                                     2.01                      2.06                   102.48
registration system
Accelerated land titling through
                                                     7.11                      8.60                   120.96
registration
Support to project management
                                                     8.34                    12.64                    151.56
and implementation
Total Baseline Cost                                 22.42                     25.90                   115.52
Physical Contingencies                               0.08                      0.00                     0.00
Price Contingencies                                  1.42                      0.00                     0.00
Total Project Costs                                 23.92                     25.90                   108.28
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                      0.00                     0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00                      0.00                     0.00
Total Financing Required                            23.92                     25.90                   108.28
* Note: Final amounts exceed the original ones, as they reflect exchange rate gains, as well as GTZ financing of
US$ 1.25 million that was not envisioned at appraisal.

(b) Financing

                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                      Estimate     Estimate *
                                              Co-financing                                  Appraisal
                                                               (USD million) (USD million)
Borrower                                                              2.27          0.67         29.52
Australian Agency for International
                                                   Grant                     6.84          8.17           119.44
Development (AusAID)
German Technical Cooperation
                                                   Grant                     n.a.          1.25                n.a
Agency (GTZ)
International Development
                                                   Credit               14.82             16.08           108.50
Association (IDA)
* Note: Final amounts exceed the original ones due to exchange rate gains.




                                                         35
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework

Expected Outcome: Key land policies are formulated and corresponding regulatory instruments
developed and adopted.

Achievement: Moderately Satisfactory
Achievement: Moderately Satisfactory
Strengths     The NLMA has provided input in the preparation of various decrees
               addressing important land policy issues that have been enacted since 2007.

                  The NLPF is now completed and is expected to be presented to the
                  National Assembly during 2010.

                  Thirteen studies on key land policy issues were conducted under LTP II.

Weaknesses        There were years of delays in the preparation of the NLPF. It has not been
                  formally adopted as anticipated at appraisal.

                  The NLPF does not appear to reflect the consensus of the main
                  stakeholders. Rather, it seems the result of an incremental process of policy
                  making. As a result, implementation of the various decrees and regulations
                  is greatly inconsistent.

                  Throughout the life of the project, donors expressed the need to have more
                  engagement on the part of top national authorities on land policy issues and
                  to broaden consultation within the government and other stakeholders.

                  It is unclear how the findings from the studies financed under LTP II have
                  been incorporated into subsequent land policies and regulations or
                  discussed with other stakeholders.


Description: The law to establish NLMA was passed in May 2004, but GoL only approved its
operational establishment in December 2006. NLMA has a broad mandate on land and natural
resources issues as defined under the 2003 Land Law. Since its inception, the NLMA has
gradually developed its capacity to address land policy issues and the supporting regulatory
framework. Thirteen studies were carried out with GTZ support. However, it is unclear how the
findings from these studies have been incorporated into subsequent land policies and regulations.
After years of delays, the NLPF document is now finalized. It is expected to be presented to the
National Assembly during 2010. The NLPF may not reflect the consensus of the main
stakeholders, given the weakness of the consultation processes. Rather, it seems to be the result of
an incremental process of largely internalized policy making. As a result, implementation of the
various decrees and regulations are greatly inconsistent. Throughout the life of the project, donors



                                                36
have expressed the need to have more engagement on the part of top national authorities on land
policy issues and to broaden consultation within the government and other stakeholders. Since
the establishment of NLMA, some aspects of its broad mandate pertaining to land and natural
resources management have been challenged by other institutions, including Water Resources
and Environment Agency (WREA), also under the Office of the Prime Minister and created in
May 2007, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM). To a large extent, these organizations have continued to implement their own respective
mandates.

The achievement of the specific outputs identified at appraisal under this component can be
summarized as follows:

       The NLPC is established and functioning properly. The NLPC was established as
       required under LTP II DCA. Accordingly, the NLPC, with a broad membership
       composition, undertook land administration policy formulation, and carried out reasonably
       effective consultative processes and dissemination of policy papers, laws and regulation.
       As such, it made good progress towards promoting a broad policy dialogue on land issues
       among key institutional actors from multiple sectors. However, after the NLMA was
       created in late 2006, the NLPC was abolished and it was replaced by an internal group of
       seven NLMA staff members. Thereafter, land administration policy formulation became
       highly internalized, and external consultation at the policy formulation stage, especially
       across sectors, became less effective.

       Procedures for policy development based on consultation with key stakeholders are
       developed and adopted. As mentioned above, procedures for land policy development
       and broad consultation was quite well developed under the NLPC, but it became highly
       internalized under NLMA. Accordingly, open and transparent policy development
       diminished during the second half of the project period. Externalization would occur only
       at the end, whereby the finalized policy would be shared, more on a "for information"
       basis, rather than to elicit input.

       Government capacity to study and formulate land policies is improved. Overall,
       throughout the life of the project the government, working with TA support, developed
       considerable capacity to undertake land policy studies. Thirteen policy studies were
       completed under the project. However, the further development of these studies, into
       actual policy and subsequently laws, regulations and decrees was less effective. Although
       NLMA became very prolific in the generation of new regulations and decrees, these were
       more often produced quickly, using internalized processes with limited external
       stakeholder consultation. As such, they tended to be prepared without sufficient analytical
       development. Furthermore, the subsequent dissemination and training on the large
       number of decrees and regulations that were issued in the final year of the project was
       often inadequate causing knowledge gaps and inconsistencies between the central and
       provincial/district levels. An example of this was the range of new title certificates that
       were introduces that were applied inconsistently at the local level. Another example
       occurred in March 2009, when the fee for registering mortgagers was changed from 0.2
       percent of the loan amount to a flat fee of LAK 50, 000 per mortgage, which was seen as



                                               37
    placing a disproportional burden on those obtaining small loans relative to those obtaining
    large ones.

-   Policies, regulatory framework and implementation procedures on key land policies are
    approved by government. The 2003 Land Law was implemented through regulations and
    decrees during the project and this included amendment of the Law to establish the
    NLMA itself. A significant number of decrees were prepared during the project including
    new regulations on compensation for compulsory land acquisition, leases on state land,
    and concessions. However, these decrees do not always appear to reflect government-
    wide consensus, as they were prepared internally without broader consultation. For
    example Decree 192, concerning compensation for compulsory land acquisition, is not
    adopted uniformly by all agencies and it is not applied consistently at central and
    provincial levels. In addition the NLMA provided input for other land-related decrees and
    legislation, including: (a) Amendment of the PM Decree on the implementation of Land
    Law no 101/PM, dated April 20, 2005 to be No 88/PM, dated 3/6/08; (b) Support the Land
    Management Line under Presidential Decree No 03/P, dated November 19, 2008; (c)
    Prime Minister Decree No 135/PM, dated May 25, 2009, on Leasing or Concession on
    State Land; and (d) Draft of Presidential Decree on the State Land Lease and Land
    Concession, which has been approved by the National Assembly approved and awaits
    Presidential signing.

    Public awareness of land policy issues is enhanced. Overall, the CES function under the
    project was responsible for raising public awareness of land policy matters and was very
    effective. The success of the CES activities under LTP II was largely the result of the
    strong participation of LWU. Through its CES activities, LTP II has contributed toward
    enhancing awareness of land rights, transfers, inheritance, mortgages and government land
    services. Importantly, with the strong support of LWU, awareness rising has been
    especially targeted to participating communities in general, and to women and vulnerable
    groups in particular. The CES program initially came under DoL, and was strongly
    harmonized with DoL's land titling program and land registration activities. However,
    after the creation of NLMA, the CES function was transferred under another unit of
    NLMA, and its effectiveness in supporting public awareness raising was reduced,
    especially as the new unit largely took its funding away and applied it to other purposes.

    Guidelines are developed and implemented for the treatment of environmentally-
    sensitive areas in land administration. It is noted that these were not developed under the
    project. The Water Resources and Environment Agency (WREA), established in 2007, is
    responsible for environmental and social impact assessment and has an ongoing program
    for the development of guidelines and procedures for undertaking these impact
    assessments.

    A strategy was developed and approved for land information sharing, and a pilot project
    tested for land information sharing. A strategy for land-information sharing was
    completed in early 2007. A pilot project was undertaken in VCC's Chanthabouly District.
    Digital cadastral maps have been developed and cadastral file records have been scanned,
    which, together with other improvements in records management may lead to improved
    efficiency in land administration. The report of the pilot project was only made available


                                            38
       in June 2009, immediately before the project closed, thus limiting the ability of the donors
       to provide feedback on the proposed data standards and protocols, data pricing, and the
       main recommendations arising from this pilot experience. Nonetheless significant
       progress was made, and further work is progressing since the closure of the project.

Component 2: Institutional Development

Expected Outcome: DoL has the institutional capacity to undertake its mandate in an efficient,
effective, and sustainable manner.

Achievement: Moderately Satisfactory

 Strengths         The NLMA was implemented in December 2006. Despite an initial capacity
                   loss as a result of the transition, the NLMA has gradually built its
                   institutional and technical capacity at the central and provincial levels.

                   The long-term human capacity building activities under the responsibility of
                   the Polytechnic College (PC) have been highly successful. Over 250
                   students (including 93 women) have obtained Higher Diplomas of
                   Surveying and Land Management courses during LTP II, thus helping
                   satisfy the demand for these technical skills on the part of the NLMA and
                   other institutions.

                   Strong gender outcomes were produced in terms of PC enrolments and
                   graduates, with 50 percent of enrollments being women. In addition
                   employment of women under the project significantly grew throughout the
                   project.

                   The M&E system developed under the project enhanced institutional
                   performance.
 Weaknesses        Weak governance within the NLMA, including poor internal
                   communications at the central level and with provincial offices and
                   excessive concentration of resources and decision making power in selected
                   units, undermines the agency's institutional capacity.

                   Inadequate budgetary allocations and a large proportion of NLMA
                   contracted staff, both at the central and provincial levels pose a threat to the
                   agency's long-term institutional development.

                   The responsibility for land tax collection was placed once again under the
                   NLMA, reverting a previous decision to make it independent of the land
                   agency (the DoL at the time). Even more worrisome, since 2009, the NLMA
                   has also been responsible for concession fees, which are equivalent to
                   roughly twice the amount of other property-related revenues. This creates a
                   tension between the objectives of maximizing revenues and managing land
                   resources in a sustainable and equitable manner.



                                                39
Description: DoL was brought under the newly established NLMA in December 2006. Therefore
from this time on, the emphasis of institutional development was on the NLMA, rather than just
one of its constituent elements, DoL. The need to further strengthen the NLMA's institutional
capacity remained an issue throughout the life of LTP II. Much of the capacity loss at the central
and provincial levels that resulted from the institutional restructuring in December 2006 was
eventually restored through the recruitment of additional staff and successful training programs.
The NLMA's ability to meet or exceed all output targets defined under LTP II within the original
timeframe shows that the agency was able to successfully establish itself since its inception in
December 2006. Two challenges, however, are still pending to ensure NLMA's institutional
sustainability in the long term: (a) the need to further enhance its internal governance; and (b)
obtain adequate recurrent budgetary support.

Weak governance within the NLMA continues to be a key factor limiting the agency's long-term
institutional development. Since its inception, there has been a gradual weakening of the
consultative and participatory processes that had been earlier set in place under LTP I and II. As a
result, partnerships with other institutions such as NGD, PC and the LWU have suffered, as well
as the CES activities aimed at raising awareness of individual land rights among participating
communities. The governance framework within the NLMA also lacks transparency:
communications are highly compartmentalized, with a few administrative units, especially
LNRIRC, exercising disproportionate control over resources, information and decision making.
Consultative processes with provincial and district levels are also weak, which hampers the
NLMA's overall effectiveness.

Lack of adequate resources, including recurrent budget, also threatens the NLMA's long term
institutional development. Most of the NLMA personnel continue to be contract staff rather than
permanent government positions, which threatens the sustainability of registration and cadastral
activities now that external funding has ended. The current budget allocation is not sufficient to
fund NLMA activities and the fee-based strategy that the NLMA has proposed to finance its work
program appears unfeasible when taking into consideration the ability and, more importantly,
willingness to pay of poor rural households for land title.

On the other hand, this component also provided support to long-term human capacity building
activities under the responsibility of the PC. These activities have been highly successful. Over
250 students (including 93 women) have obtained Higher Diplomas of Surveying and Land
Management courses during LTP II, thus helping satisfy the demand for these technical skills on
the part of the NLMA and the NGD. The support provided to the Polytechnic College (including
financial support for scholarships as well as surveying equipment and a building expansion) has
be wisely used to set the foundations for a bachelor's degree in Land Survey and Administration
and the implementation of strategies for improving the quality of graduates of PC courses. The
courses are now highly sustainable and self-funding.




                                                40
The achievement of the specific outputs identified at appraisal under this component can be
summarized as follows:

      The restructuring plan of DoL is approved and implemented by October 1, 2003. The
      DoL was restructured in 2003. It was subsequently replaced by the NLMA in December
      2006. The establishment of NLMA, arising from amendment to the Land Law, effectively
      bringing together under one institution, the government's key land agencies, was a
      significant achievement in institutional reform.

      PLOs are established and functioning well. This outcome was achieved. After the
      creation of NLMA, the PLMA were established and by project closure, all provinces were
      operational. See discussion on PLOs under Component 3.

      The Land Tax Division of DoL is strengthened, and separated from DoL in PY3. This
      outcome was not achieved. At the end of 2006, the Land Tax Unit was moved from the
      DoL to the MoF. However, in accordance with the Decree on the Implementation of the
      Land Law (No. 88/PMO of June 3, 2008), the responsibility for land tax collection was
      placed once again under the NLMA. Since 2009, the NLMA has become responsible for
      concession fees, which are equivalent to roughly twice the amount of other property-
      related revenues. Best practice in land administration good governance would see these
      functions under two distinctly separate agencies.

      The relationship between DoL and the provincial and district Land Offices is
      streamlined, and the line of reporting technical and administrative matters is improved.
      The relationship between the NLMA's central and provincial and district levels has
      improved significantly over time. The M&E system developed and implemented under
      LTP II has contributed to improving this coordination, as reflected by a more consistent
      performance and reporting at PLOs.

      Project implementation is streamlined through the normal structure of the DoL and the
      PLOs. The project was implemented through the NLMA's normal structure at the central,
      provincial and district levels.

      Human capacity is improved (the number of staff who have graduated from the high-
      level Diploma program), and the number of graduates retained by the government. The
      Polytechnic College reports that the NLMA has been the main source of employment for
      its graduates, particularly for staffing of SAT. Overall this has been well achieved,
      demonstrated by the government's high-level of take-up and retention of these graduates.

      At least 30 percent of women staff in the DoL and in the provincial and district Land
      Offices. This target was not achieved. In May 2009, there were 283 females out of a total
      of 1121 employees in the DoL within the NLMA, equivalent to 25 percent. Therefore this
      came very close to being full achieved and most definitely constitutes a significant
      increase from the November 2007 of only 16 percent. It is also noted that: (a) at the
      central level of DoL 22 percent of employees are female (12 out of 54 employees); (b) at
      the provincial level of DoL, 33 percent of PLO employees are women (98 out of 293


                                             41
        employees); and at the field operations level where there are 260 SATs, 22 percent of
        employees are women (173 out of 774 employees).

        At least 30 percent of female students are enrolled in the high-level Diploma program.
        This target was exceeded, with over half of the students enrolled in the Polytechnic
        College's High Level Diploma being females.

     Table 3.1: Number of Students and Percentage of Females Enrolled in the Higher Diploma
                              of Surveying and Land Administration

            Academic          Total              Female             Percentage of
            Year                                                    Female
            2002-2003         35                 11                 31.4
            2003-2004         89                 33                 37.1
            2004-2005         146                57                 39.0
            2005-2006         62                 30                 48.4
            2006-2007         36                 20                 55.6
            2007-2008         38                 21                 55.3

        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems and procedures are developed and
        implemented to support project management, the assessment of impact and service
        delivery, and stakeholder perception. A M&E system was been developed under the
        project and implemented at central and provincial level. Initially the system was manual,
        but it was gradually developed into a computerized system with online reporting from
        provinces. Accordingly, reports were produced regularly. The M&E system has served to
        significantly enhance effectiveness and efficiency of the land titling activities.

Component 3: Development of a Modern Land Registration System

Expected Outcome: A well functioning land registration system is in place.

Achievement: Satisfactory

Strengths         Most of the progress under this component was achieved in the initial
                  nine provinces that had actual commenced under LTP I. These provinces
                  implemented the Model Land Office and also made considerable
                  progress in the back-up of land records, with the PLOs scanning land
                  records and the LNRIRC scanning the land books. In addition, loose-
                  leaf paper registration books and new format land titles were adopted.

                  Uniform standards for land administration services have been
                  implemented and have been largely met.

                  CES activities, which were implemented in partnership with the LWU,
                  were highly successful in raising awareness among participating
                  communities, particularly women and other vulnerable groups, of their
                  land rights.


                                               42
                   A Valuation Information System (VIS) was implemented, including the
                   creation of VIS maps and rates for selected project areas.

                   The registration system for state land, previously under the
                   responsibility of the DSA under the Ministry of Finance was integrated
                   with that of the NLMA. Titles were issued for over 45,000 state-owned
                   parcels covering an area of over 175,000 hectares in seventeen
                   provinces.
Weaknesses         Progress in the five additional provinces originally identified in the PAD
                   was limited as a result of multiple start-up problems, such as inadequate
                   facilities for the operation of the PLOs and the secured storage of land
                   records, and lack of vehicles for the SATs. The DCA was amended in
                   October 2007 to enable these additional five provinces to be included in
                   the project.

                   Although the DCA was further amended in August 2008 to include the
                   final three provinces, the implementation in these final three provinces
                   was only at the preparation level, which involved staff training, with no
                   actual titling activities being implemented.

                   CES activities have gradually weakened since the establishment of
                   NLMA. The emphasis on protecting the women's land rights is unlikely
                   to be sustained.

                   Further strengthening of the NLMA valuation function is urgently
                   needed.

                   DSA has to have greater access to the information on registered state
                   land to be able to enhance its management functions, which should
                   include, at a minimum, keeping track of the concessions granted on state
                   land.

Description: Most of the progress under this component was achieved in the nine provinces that
had participated in LTP I. The nine original provincial offices implemented land administration
service standards. These provinces also made considerable progress in the back-up of land records,
with the PLOs scanning land records and the LNRIRC scanning the land books. In addition,
loose-leaf paper registration books and new format land titles were adopted. Progress in the five
additional provinces originally identified in the PAD was limited as a result of multiple start-up
problems, such as inadequate facilities for the operation of the PLOs and the secured storage of
land records, and lack of vehicles for the SATs. Although the DCA was amended in August 2008
to enable the project to be implemented in all provinces the last three provinces that were included
in the project received only training, with no other field activities being implemented.

The CES program was established and effectively implemented in full partnership with the Laos
Women Union (LWU), as evidenced by the outstanding achievement of gender-related targets
under the project's land titling activities. Unfortunately, CES activities received less priority after


                                                  43
the establishment of the NLMA, when reporting arrangements were changed and sufficient
budget was no longer provided. These institutional arrangements placed CES under the NLMA's
Land and Natural Resources Information Research Center (LNRIRC). Such reporting
arrangements were demonstrably less conducive to support the implementation of CES activities
than the former arrangements, which placed them under DoL. In particular, the funds flow to
support CES dissemination and training became inadequate whilst under LNRIRC. The particular
concerns include: (a) creation of unnecessary bottlenecks in implementation of CES to support
land titling under DoL; (b) fragmentation of CES activities and staff which have compromised the
overall integrity and quality of CES activities, which are critical for the socialization of land
titling and land registration as well as the development of a sound governance framework
supporting these activities.

This component also provided support for Valuation Services, including implementation of the
Valuation Information System (VIS), the creation of VIS maps and rates for selected project areas,
as well as training courses and data gathering in the first nine project provinces to prepare for
creation of VIS zoning maps. However, delays in approval of the new and updated rate tables and
valuation maps resulted in significant losses in revenues, an estimated US$400,000 per year.
Also, the lack of qualified valuation staff and the high number of contract staff at both the central
and provincial level continue to be weaknesses. Continued economic growth and the
development of property markets, especially pressures from foreign investment, will require
correct property valuation and also provide a proper basis for land acquisition and compensation.

Support was also provided to DSA which was responsible for approximately 20 percent of urban
land parcels that are state land. Initially, the DSA operated its own registration system for state
land, within the Ministry of Finance. As a result, access to two separate land records systems was
required to obtain complete information about state land. LTP II supported the integration of these
two systems under the DoL's primary land registration system under NLMA. Titles have been
issued for over 45,000 parcels of state land covering an area of approximately 175,000 hectares in
seventeen provinces (including VCC), which are now registered under the DoL's land registration
system. However, the DSA, which is now housed under the DoL in the NLMA, has yet to
capitalize on the potential benefits of this information for improving the management of state
lands. As of now, it has only received a listing of the parcels, but no geographic information (not
even maps). Moreover, while the DSA is responsible for registering subsequent transactions on
state lands, the responsibility for concessions is under the Department of Land Policy and
Inspections. The lack of a transparent information flow on concessions remains a critical issue
that requires urgent attention.




                                                44
The achievement of the specific outputs identified at appraisal under this component can be
summarized as follows:

      The number of provincial and district Land Offices established in project areas. Nine
      PLOs have been fully established, and significant progress is being done in other eight
      offices additional ones. District offices are yet to be established in all provinces.

      Service standards for land registration transactions are developed, agreed, implemented
      and monitored, with at least 80 percent compliance with the service standards. The
      majority of the service standards are being complied with by the PLOs. Compliance with
      service standards is monitored and confirmed by the M&E system.

      Streamlined land registration procedures are developed and implemented. Land
      registration procedures were streamlined as part of the systematic land titling activities,
      which included conflict resolution in the case of boundary disputes and a clear definition
      of the documents and the procedures required to demonstrate user rights. It is important to
      note that, while these procedures are still more numerous and time consuming than in
      other countries in the region, at least now they are clearly spelled out. These procedures
      are now included in the World Bank's Annual "Doing Business Reports".

      More than 80 percent of subsequent land transactions are registered. In the absence of
      the SEEIA, it is not possible to assess this. A study of Subsequent Registration
      Transactions finalized in April 2007 reported a rate of subsequent registration of 54
      percent. The number of registered transactions increased substantially during PY 2007 to
      2008 and 2008 to 2009 (see Figures 1 and 2, Section 3.2). A Strategy to increase the rate
      of registration of subsequent land transactions was developed by DoL, but no budgetary
      resources were allocated to this critical activity.

      Development and implementation of a community relations program, including an
      active program of monitoring community satisfaction. The community relations program,
      i.e., CES activities, was established and implemented. Monitoring of community
      satisfaction, however, did not occur. The fact that SEEIA was not undertaken precluded
      the overall assessment of community satisfaction.

      Development and implementation of a land record management strategy. A 10-year
      computerization strategy was developed by the Land Records Management and a
      workshop was conducted to evaluate potential computer applications. It is planned to take
      the VCC pilot databases and to modify them for implementation in SATs and PLOs in
      order to collect digital ownership data and compile computerized indexes.

      An increased percentage of women staff in the provincial and district Land Offices. As
      of May 2009, there were 98 females out of a total of 293 employees in the PLOs
      corresponding to seventeen provinces (includes VCC), equivalent to 33 percent of their
      staff. Although the original number of women staff at project start-up is not recorded,
      and substantial increase is likely, particularly given that NLMA had an overall 16 percent
      women staff in November 2007.


                                              45
         An effective CES program implemented, including broad social awareness, impact
         monitoring and full participation by the LWU. The CES program was established and
         effectively implemented in full partnership with the LWU, as evidenced by the
         outstanding achievement of gender-related targets under the project's land titling activities.
         Unfortunately, CES activities became increasingly neglected after the establishment of the
         NLMA due to: (a) the transfer of CES from DoL to LNRIRC where it was not
         appropriately resourced and managed; (b) weak budget support from NLMA, which
         precluded LWU from fully carrying out its supporting role.

Component 4: Accelerated Land Titling through Systematic Registration

Expected Outcome: A well functioning system for issuing land titles is in place.

Achievement: Highly Satisfactory

Strengths             All land titling targets were exceeded: (a) 427,526 land parcels were
                      surveyed and adjudicated, equivalent to 107 percent of the original
                      target; (b) 395,279 titles were issued and registered, equivalent to 124
                      percent of the original target; and (c) 381,806 titles were distributed to
                      beneficiaries, equivalent to 133 percent of the original target.

                      A total of 148,152 titles (37.5 percent) were issued to women compared
                      to 92,653 titles (23.4 percent) that were issued to men. This reflects the
                      fact that women, under customary traditions, tend to inherit the land in
                      Laos. There was also 115,816 titles (29.3 percent) issued in joint names
                      (conjugal), husband and wife.12

                      The proportion of titles issued jointly to spouses from the already
                      impressive 23.5 percent that was achieved under LTP I was 29.3 percent
                      under LTP II. The increase is even more dramatic if the proportions are
                      compared by PY. Under LTP I, in 1996, only about 3 percent of titles
                      were issued in joint names and under LTP II in the final year from PY
                      2008 to 2009, over 40 percent of titles were issued in joint names.

                      As of May 2009, the average error rate of all provinces was 3 percent,
                      which constitutes a significant improvement compared to roughly 9
                      percent in 2007.

                      As of May 2009, productivity was at target, with an average adjudication
                      rate of 3.1 parcels per day per sub-SAT.

                      Coverage of titling activities had a wide territorial coverage, including


12
  It should be noted that a proportion of titles were also issued to DSA for state owned land parcels, e.g. for public
buildings



                                                          46
                   59 out of 141 districts (41.8 percent) in over 1,800 out of 8,800 villages
                   (20.7 percent) in 14 out of 17 provinces (VCC included).

                   An M&E system has been developed and adopted. Reports are
                   produced regularly. The M&E system has served to significantly
                   enhance effectiveness and efficiency of the land titling activities.


Weaknesses         The average time taken from systematic adjudication to title distribution
                   had increased to 5.3 months, which is outside the project target of 4
                   months.

                   At closing, production costs per title registered were reported to be
                   US$29.4, which significantly exceeds the target of US$25. Unitary
                   production costs increased significantly after the December 2006
                   restructuring, partly as a result of losses in efficiency but also as a result
                   of including tasks other than titling in the cost calculations. Moreover,
                   the reported unitary costs cannot be considered to be fully reliable or
                   consistent, as cost basis criteria were never clearly defined.


Description: As of September 30, 2009, the project had exceeded the original targets for land
parcels surveyed and adjudicated (427,526 land parcels adjudicated, equivalent to 107 percent of
the original target) as well as land titles issued and registered (395,279 titles issued, equivalent to
124 percent of the original target) and distributed to beneficiaries (381,806 titles distributed,
equivalent to 133 percent of the original target).

As of May 2009, the average error rate of all provinces was 3 percent, which constitutes a
significant improvement compared to roughly 9 percent in 2007. Productivity was at target, with
an average adjudication rate of 3.1 parcels per day per sub-SATs. The average time taken from
systematic adjudication to title distribution had increased to 5.3 months, which is outside the
project target of 4 months. At the Credit's closing, production costs per title registered were
reported to be US$29.4, which significantly exceeds the target of US$25. Unitary production
costs increased significantly after the December 2006 restructuring, partly as a result of losses in
efficiency but also as a result of including tasks other than titling in the cost calculations, i.e.,
precise costing basis was never well defined.

The achievement of the outputs identified at appraisal under this component can be summarized
as follows:

       Number of villages covered by systematic titling activities. No specific targets were
       defined. However, systematic titling activities under LTP I and II had a wide territorial
       coverage, including 59 districts and over 1, 800 villages in the VCC and 13 provinces (See
       Table 3.2). However, it was also noted that titling activities tended to follow road
       corridors, resulting in a `ribbon-like effect' in titling coverage patterns rather than more
       compact patterns. In part, this was due to the lack of modern surveying equipment (i.e.,



                                                  47
     up to 2007, much of the surveying was done using unsophisticated measurement
     techniques).

           Table 2.2: Coverage of Systematic Titling Activities under LTP I and II

                          Province                           Districts                                 Villages
                    All              LTP I & II       All     LTP I & II        %            All       LTP I & II       %
   1       VCC                         Yes                 9           8         88.9          500           355         71.0
   2       Khammuane                   Yes                 9           3         33.3          601           111         18.5
   3       Viantiane                   Yes                13           5         38.5          524           158         30.2
   4       Savannakhet                 Yes                15           8         53.3        1,006           286         28.4
   5       Champassack                 Yes                10          10        100.0          637           356         55.9
   6       Loangphrabang               Yes                11           7         63.6          792           220         27.8
   7       Xayabouli                   Yes                11           4         36.4          448            81         18.1
   8       Bolikhamxai                 Yes                 6           4         66.7          328            66         20.1
   9       Saravan                     Yes                 8           5         62.5          631           124         19.7
   10      Loung Namtha                Yes                 5           1         20.0          357              7          2.0
   11      Oudomxay                    Yes                 7           1         14.3          490              9          1.8
   12      Sekong                      Yes                 4           1         25.0          239            14           5.9
   13      Bokeo                       Yes                 5           1         20.0          292            13           4.5
   14      Attapeu                     Yes                 5           1         20.0          157            25         15.9
   15      Houaphan                   Yes (*)              8        -            -             738           -           -
   16      Phongsali                  Yes (*)              7        -            -             563           -           -
   17      Xiangkhoang                Yes (*)              8        -            -             502           -           -
   Total           17                                 141         59           41.8         8805         1825          20.7
   (*) These provinces were incorporated to the LPT II shortly before closing. Thus, they only received training, but no
   budget for field activities--no systematic land titling activities were conducted.


     An effective CES program is implemented, including broad social awareness, impact
     monitoring and full participation by the LWU. Achieved. See discussion under
     Component 3.

     A total of 400,000 parcels surveyed and adjudicated and 320, 000 titles (i.e., 80 percent)
     registered and issued by the projects' completion date. These targets were exceeded. As
     of September 30, 2009, a total of 427,526 land parcels were surveyed and adjudicated,
     with land titles being issued for 92.5 percent of them (i.e., 395,279 parcels). This
     represents a significant accomplishment.

     More than 90 percent of titles collected by the beneficiaries. This target was exceeded.
     As of September 30, 2009, a total of 381,806 titles were distributed among beneficiaries
     (i.e., 96.6 percent of the titles issued).

     Productivity of SATs is at least 3 parcels per day per team. Productivity was achieved,
     with an average adjudication rate of 3.1 parcels per day per sub-SAT.

     Number of titles issued in the names of women or in joint names. The number of titles
     issued during LTP II was 395,279. Of these, 148,152 titles were issued to women
     compared to 92,653 titles that were issued to men, i.e., the number of titles issued to
     women is 60 percent higher than those issued to men. The proportion of titles issued
     jointly to spouses from the already impressive 23.5 percent that was achieved under LTP I


                                                               48
       was almost 30 percent, i.e., over the life of both LTP I & II, the share of conjugal joint
       titles increased from less than 3 percent in PY 1995 to 1996 to over 40 percent in PY 2008
       to 2009. This is seen as a major success of this project.

       The cost per title is less than US$25. This target was almost achieved. The unitary cost of
       issuing a land title ranged between US$18 and US$20 before the institutional restructuring,
       well below target. However, unitary cost subsequently increased and was reported at
       US$29.4 at the closing of the project. The increase reflects both losses in efficiency as a
       result of the institutional restructuring and the fact that some activities related to land
       management in general, rather than titling itself, were also included in the cost structure. It
       is important to note, however, that the cost basis for calculating unitary titling costs was
       never adequately defined. As a result, the unitary costs reported at various times during
       the life of the project cannot be considered to be neither fully reliable nor internally
       consistent.

       Title production and distribution is less than four months after adjudication. This target
       was not achieved. The average time taken for the completion of the titling process in the
       14 project provinces is about 5.3 months. There are significant differences between the
       original nine provinces and the five provinces that joined in later on. In the five "new"
       provinces, the average production time is over seven months. In the original nine
       provinces, the production time is on average 4.4 months, also with a significant variation
       within this subset, i.e., between 3.3 and 5.9 months. Had the project continued for a
       longer period, it is likely that the timeframe would have been further reduced.

       The percentage of women in SATs. As of May 2009, there were 173 females out of a total
       of 774 people in the SATs (22 percent females).

Component 5: Support to Project Management and Implementation

Expected Outcome: The capacity of the DoL and PLOs to implement and manage project
activities has improved.

Achievement: Moderately Satisfactory

Description: Building capacity for project management was a challenge throughout the life of the
project, and particularly after the inception of the NLMA in December 2006. Weaknesses in most
management functions, including reporting and M&E, were gradually addressed at both the
central and provincial levels. Performance was satisfactory by the end of the project. Procurement,
however, remained a weakness.

The achievement of the outputs identified at appraisal under this component can be summarized
as follows:

       Forward planning process for area selection is in place and functioning efficiently.
       Village profiling was one of the CES activities, aimed at determining whether individual
       villages met all the eligibility criteria for project participation before their inclusion in the
       project. An important aim of the process was to ensure compliance with the social


                                                  49
   safeguards. Some weaknesses were identified early on during project implementation and
   subsequently addressed.

   Enhanced capacity of the DoL in project management (including procurement, finance,
   planning, budgeting, and monitoring). The project management capacity of the DoL was
   increased substantially during the first five years of project implementation. There was a
   significant loss in project management capacity when the NLMA was implemented.
   Although much of this capacity was gradually rebuilt over the past two years, the
   procurement function never fully recovered.

   The establishment of an M&E system, with reports being produced regularly. An M&E
   system was developed and implemented. However, it became increasingly more effective
   only after an independent review by an FAO expert. Progress reports were produced
   regularly incorporating the input from PLOs. The reporting function improved
   significantly between early 2007 and the end of the project.

   Contracting of the second round of SEEIA by October 31, 2006. The SEEIA was
   intended to provide a second measurement of the baseline indicators that were developed
   and measured in 2003 under the SEBS. In this way, the SEEIA would have contributed to
   a more in-depth measurement of the impact of LTP II and a better understanding of the
   dynamics affecting land issues at the household level. The SEEIA was not carried out,
   largely due to procurement delays. It should be noted that NLMA was concerned about the
   relatively high cost of the SEBS, around US$ 400,000 and it did not wish to see such a
   level of costs being incurred yet again with the SEEIA. Whilst an initial allocation of a
   similar sum had been allocated under DoL, NLMA after taking over as the implementing
   agency capped this at US$ 150,000. The Bank team was in agreement with this capping.
   This reduction had an impact on designing the SEEIA terms of reference, which took a
   long time to finalize.




                                           50
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Cost Benefit Analysis Summary carried at Appraisal (Annex 4 of the PAD) appreciated the
lack of detailed information on rural areas, including cultivation practices, and the technical
difficulties to measure incremental increase of income from titling. Instead it made an
assumption about urban land prices going up by 15 percent in five years after titling, and
remaining steady thereafter, to arrive at an ERR of about 21 percent.

At Completion, the data challenges have remained. SEBS had found household income changes
for titled and untitled villages were not different. This lack of evidence for income increases may
reflect that the Lao land titling program is not stimulating income increases but still increased
uptake of credit. The additional credit is being used for improvement of their dwellings and not
for on-farm activities, where they would make changes after two to three years of titling but not
immediately.

The chain of events (see Figure 3.1 below showing Feder's Land Titling Impact Framework13)
that leads to clear manifestation of higher income/higher land value from titling may not have
happened yet. Under such circumstances, only a small portion of the increase in land prices,
which have been rising throughout the project period, can be attributed just to the possession of
titles. Without the quality of data powerful enough to distinguish increase in land prices from
titling, a "lower bound" of the land price increase from titling that would be make this project
have a threshold ERR of 12 percent was calculated.

The project surveyed and adjudicated 427,526 land parcels, of which 395,279 titles were issued
and registered. One estimate (SEBS on page 64) puts the average parcel-size at 3,246 square
meters. For this evaluation, the average price of land before titling was assumed to be at least 50
cents per square meter. This would put the lower bound of price of an average parcel titled under
the project to be at least US$1,50014, and total value of land titled under the project to be at least
US$0.6 billion. The project cost was US$25.90 million. Consequently, a conceivable 4.8 percent
one-time increase in land value adjusted for inflation coming from titling 395,279 titles would
lead to an ERR above the threshold ERR of 12 percent. Of course, the lower bound of land price
increase as a result of land titling is very sensitive to the total titled area. Hypothetically, if under
the project only 50,000 titles had been issued, an unlikely 38 percent one-time increase in land
value coming from titling would have been required to generate the threshold 12 percent ERR.
This clearly points to the importance of the number of titles produced under the project.

There may also be economic benefits associated with the title registration systems that are not
captured in increases in the price of land and in the ERR calculation above, but have a positive
impact on GDP growth. For example, a stable land tenure regime, often defined by a land
registration system, is a necessary condition for capital inflows into an economy which in turn
result in increases in manufacturing investments and subsequently has positive impacts on GDP



13
  Land Policies and Farm Productivity in Thailand" G. Feeder et al, 1988
14
  2008 GNI per capita was US$740. On average, households in the project area have about six persons and three
parcels.


                                                       51
growth for the overall economy. Very small increases in GDP growth as a result of this effect
would be required to cover the cost of this investment in the title registration system.

Lastly, the various other benefits of the project, e.g., that of the project having addressed women's
ownership of land, or having a well running land education system would have to be added to the
above benefits from land titling to obtain the full economic benefit of the project.

Sometimes long-term sustainability of economic benefits of having a title has been questioned15
particularly for those who are more vulnerable in the society. For example, the Government
appears to be granting land concessions for economic activities without paying proper
compensation to the original land user. Even in these cases, however, the land owner with a title
has benefitted over those without a title. The Government, in practice has not adopted a consistent
approach to providing compensation for land that is compulsorily acquired for public or private
development purposes. Only those with a title receive any compensation and the level of
compensation would seem to be fixed on a case-by-case basis, and not based on appraised value
of the land parcel and improvements. The Government will only pay a minimal value for the land
only, and no compensation for improvements. Although land-owners with formal title may not
have been able to stop the Government from acquiring their land, they are still better off than
those without title who get no compensation.

At Appraisal, the financial benefits covered in the analysis included first registration fees as well
as subsequent registration fees corresponding to sales, leases, and loans with land as collateral.
The financial costs included all project costs as well as the future management costs associated
with administering the titles issued under the project, which were estimated at 2 percent of total
project cost. The FRR, which dealt with the financial benefits and costs to the Government, was
calculated to be 14 percent. As shown on Table 3.1 below, taking into consideration that the
incremental land-related revenues collected by NLMA were roughly eight percent higher than
anticipated, the actual FRR for the project is 14 percent when maintaining all other assumptions
constant. AusAID and GTZ grants, which amounted to roughly US$9.4 million, were subtracted
from the total project costs for the purposes of calculating the FRR.




15
     See AusAID Lao-Australia Property Rights and Land Titling Project ICR, Steven Oliver, January 2010



                                                        52
         Table 3.1 Calculation of Financial Rate of Return (FRR) (US$ Million)
                Appraisal Estimates                                    ICR Estimates
Year   Costs       First        Subsequent          Net       Costs      Benefits         Net
                Registration    Registration     Financial                             Financial
                    Fee            Fees          Benefits                              Benefits
 1       3.23            0.08            0.00         -3.15     3.50          0.07         -3.43
 2       3.27            0.08            0.29         -2.90     3.54          0.16         -3.38
 3       3.36            0.08            0.60         -2.68     3.64          0.55         -3.09
 4       3.49            0.08            0.94         -2.47     3.78          2.48         -1.30
 5       3.66            0.09            1.31         -2.26     3.96          2.78         -1.18
6-35     0.34                            2.86          2.52     0.37          2.78          2.42
                                      FRR =      14percent                 FRR =       14percent




                                                53
             Figure 3.1: An Impact Framework for Considering Possible
                              Effects of Land Titling


                                   Titled Land


More security for buyer of    More security to farmer       More security to lender
          land


  Greater efficiency             More demand for           More supply of long- term
   of land markets                 investment                       credit
   -------------------
      More land                                More investment in fixed
                                                       assets
 Better allocation of
 land to higher value                       More demand for variable
         uses                                       inputs
                                                                    Increased short-
                                                                      term credit
                                                 More use of variable
                                                       inputs

                                                Higher output/hectare


                                 Higher land                            Higher income
                                    price




                                     54
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
            Names                       Title                  Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Chinnakorn Chantra              Procurement Specialist        EAPPR
                                Senior Agriculture
Guo Li                                                        AFTAR
                                Economist
Guzman P. Garcia-Rivero         Sector Leader                 EASRD
Wael Zakout                     Sector Manager                ECSS6
Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha    Operation Adviser             AFTAR
Mary P. Judd                    Senior Anthropologist         EASER
                                Senior Financial
Behdad M. H. Nowroozi                                         EASFM
                                Management Specialist
Nina Masako Eejima              Senior Counsel                LEGES
Chinnakorn Chantra              Procurement Specialist        EAPPR

Enrique O. Crousillat            Lead Energy Specialist       EASRD
Malcolm D. Childress             Consultant                   EASRD
Supervision/ICR
                                Senior Procurement
Ahsan Ali                                                     EAPPR
                                Specialist
                                Senior Land Policy
Keith Clifford Bell                                           EASER
                                Specialist, TTL
Gillian M. Brown                Senior Gender Specialist      EASSO
Chinnakorn Chantra              Procurement Specialist        EAPPR
                                Senior Agriculture
Marianne Grosclaude                                           EASNS
                                Economist
Ronald P. Isaacson              Senior Operations Officer     AFTCS
                                Senior Agriculture
Guo Li                                                        AFTAR
                                Economist
Srinivas Shivakumar             Project Management
                                                               FAO
Mahalingam                      Consultant
Mark Marquardt                  Land Policy Consultant         FAO
                                Land Administration and LIS
David Mitchell                                                 FAO
                                Consultant
                                Senior Procurement
Oithip Mongkolsawat                                           EAPPR
                                Specialist
                                Senior Financial
Donald Herrings Mphande                                       AFTFM
                                Management Specialist
Paul Munro-Faure                Chief Land Tenure Service      FAO


                                        55
                                    and Land Valuation Expert
Kevin Nettle                        Land Registration Consultant   EASTS
                                    Social Development
Sybounheung Phandanouvong                                          EASTS
                                    Specialist
Viengkeo Phetnavongxay              Environmental Specialist       EASTS
Maria Theresa Quinones              Senior Operations Officer      EASPS
                                    Financial Management
Nipa Siribuddhamas                                                 EAPFM
                                    Specialist
Sirirat Sirijaratwong               Procurement Analyst            EAPPR
Thalavanh Vongsonephet              Program Assistant              EACLF
Wael Zakout                         Sector Manager                 ECSSG
Ngozi Blessing Malife               Program Assistant              EASER
Maria Cecilia Zanetta               Consultant ­ ICR Preparation   LCSHE
                                    Consultant Economist ­ ICR
Surajit Goswami                                                    EASIS
                                    Preparation

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands*
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                         (incl. travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                      4.15                       36.20
  FY03                      34.42                      202.69
  FY04                      4.38                       15.24
  FY05                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                 0.00
 Total:                     42.95                      254.31
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                      1.13                       4.12
  FY03                                                 0.00
  FY04                      5.81                       26.36
  FY05                      16.05                      63.39
  FY06                      17.98                      102.35
  FY07                      16.35                      122.11
  FY08                      14.91                      129.70
  FY09                      9.06                       129.90
 Total:                     81.29                      577.93




                                           56
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N.A.




                                      57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N.A.




                                       58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on the Draft ICR

Summary. The objectives of LTP2 were to improve land tenure security, develop transparent
and efficient land administration institutions, and increase government revenues from land related
taxes and fees. LTP2 was the second phase of the long-term land titling program aimed at the
development of the land administration capacity to support the country's economic development
and poverty reduction goals. In order to achieve the project objectives, the project focused on
formulating and approving land policy and regulatory changes, strengthening institutional
capacity and project management, accelerating land titling activities in areas of high demand,
developing and implementing an efficient and transparent land registration system, and
strengthening land valuation. Overall good progress was made towards the achievement of the
majority of the project's development objectives. In accordance with the government's policy, it
is necessary to link together land classification (and land use planning) with land titling together,
in order to address social, environmental and economic land issues.

Assessment of the Project Outputs.

Component 1: Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework. Sound progress was
made on the completion of the NLMA's program of policy studies, and the NLPF document was
prepared. The policy studies have been completed and approved. The issued recent decrees,
regulations, to improve land administration and management. The government has also approved
a decree on Leases and Concessions and a Presidential Decree of the fee for Leases and
Concessions.

The VCC pilot has continued to develop digital cadastral maps, scan cadastral file records and
improve records management. The current results demonstrate the ability to: (a) record the
cadastral maps and scanned cadastral file records; (b) record the statistics of land parcels in
village and districts of VCC; and (c) accelerate the searching of evidence of land parcel such as
history of each parcel, land transfers and inheritance.

Component 2: Institutional Development. Institutional restructuring within the NLMA has been
done from central to provincial, district and village levels. Implementation is based on the
requirements of the 2003 Land Law.

Support for Valuation Services. Progress has been made with developing the valuation system.
NLMA has defined four main factors to be included into the valuation system: (a) quality of land;
(b) location of land; (c) infrastructure areas; and (d) development areas.

Component 3: The Development of a Modern Land Registration System. The VCC model land
office has been implemented efficiently and smoothly. NLMA has set a plan to extend the model
to all provinces.

CES. The objective of CES is to assist the society understand the regulation and policy of the
government related to land including solving conflict and protection of the biodiversity and
environment. The CES function is under LNRIRC, working in cooperation with the concerned
departments for implementing the project activities.


                                                 59
PLOs, with support from LWU disseminate information about the land policy, laws and
regulations, land dispute resolution and gender mainstreaming.

Component 4: Accelerated Land Titling through Systematic Registration. By June 30, 2009 the
project had exceeded the project target for titles surveyed and adjudicated (427,526 - 106 percent
of target), issued (395,279 - 123 percent) and distributed to beneficiaries (381,806 - 132 percent).
The production costs per title are US$ 27 per land parcel, which exceeds the project target of
US$25.

Component 5: Support to Project Management and Implementation. Overall, project
management, including reporting and M&E, are now performing at a satisfactory level. The
project's implementation of M&E, which has improved dramatically since the initial MTR
mission in 2006. M&E is now performing quite well at both the provincial and central levels and
the first online system of reporting was established in 2008.

Project Impacts

The following impacts have been identified:

       Legal Impacts. The project has successfully developed and promulgated the Land Law,
       associated decrees necessary to support project activities and work instruction as a
       foundation for sustaining the long-term land titling activities and land administration in
       Lao PDR.

       Social Impacts. The project has provided secure land use rights to eligible land occupiers,
       hence reducing land disputes and inducing confidence for investments on lands. Women
       have equal rights in participating and obtaining the benefits from the project, and
       registration their names on land titles. The data collected shows that 38 percent of all land
       parcels are registered in the names of women, 28 percent in joint names. Moreover, more
       than 300 women worked in the systematic adjudication teams and on other project teams.

       Institutional Impacts. An international accepted standard for systematic land adjudication
       and registration systems have been established in Lao PDR. In addition, more than 1,000
       government and contract staff have received training and developed skills necessary to
       support systematic registration and land registration skills.

       Fiscal Impacts. Government's revenues resulting from the project increased significantly.
       The revenues from land taxes and registration fee due to better land records, increased by
       double to LAK 77.95 billion in FY2007/20008 against the amount collected in LAK 32.91
       billion in PY2003/2004.

 Revenues from land registration fees increased by 6 times from LAK 3.2 billion in 2002 to
 LAK 18.85 billion in PY2007/2008. The benefit: cost ratio of the registration revenues and the
 cost of issue a land title stood at 5:1, and this ratio is expected to rise in future when formal
 registration is widely accepted and the volume of registration increased.




                                                60
       Economic Impacts. Based on data collected by NLMA, the actual land values in those
       urban and peri-urban areas, under the project, increased rapidly over the period between
       2004 and 2009. At the same time agricultural productivity in rural lowlands areas
       increased more or less at the same rate due to more investment in land and the use of land
       titles for mortgages.

Performance of Government and Implementing Agency.
The Government considers that it provided adequate support, which greatly affected project
implementation in achieving project objectives, particularly the technical development and the
land titling targets.

Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned.
The major implementation experiences and lessons learned from the project are:
       Through a well designed project with clear objectives, the implementing agencies have
       gradually gained experience in implementing the project.
       Successful project implementation and sustainability required an intensive training
       program and a well managed Human Resource Development (HRD) strategy. The skills of
       staff under the project remain relatively good to adequate training and education in the PC.
       Some of the policy studies which were delayed made any preparation for a third
       implementation phase of LTP difficult.
       The government provided financial incentives to SAT, on a per parcel basis, in order to
       increase productivity of land titling.
       The project's expansion from 9 to all 17 provinces (VCC included), under the newly
       established NLMA, was too quick. The capacity of NLMA to manage and mobilize these
       resources to meet the project timetable was over-estimated. The capacity of the NLMA to
       implement the project was also impacted by the relatively limited middle level
       management skills in such areas as: (a) project planning; (b) financial and procurement
       management; (c) policy development and implementation; and (d) community
       development and awareness programs.
       Technical assistance (TA) provided under project by AusAID and GTZ was adequate and
       its performance was generally considered to be satisfactory.
       Support from the World Bank was generally satisfactory, but its impact could have been
       improved by having a local or in-country presence, to work more closely with the
       implementing agency and to balance the demands and priorities of the other donors and
       TA. Furthermore, such a local presence would have better supported parallel
       developments across the land sector.




                                                  61
Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR Report




                                      62
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

AusAID

Technical assistance for Components 2 to 5 of the project was provided by AusAID. These
components were entirely focused on achieving the three main project objectives and, at a
technical level, delivered good results. Land tenure security was strengthened by the production
of over 386,190 registered titles. The Department of Lands increased capacity to manage and
equip regional staff to implement land administration. In relation to the nine original provinces,
efficient PLOs were operating to register an increasing number of subsequent transactions. The
annual number of mortgages being registered is increasing, although there is scope for
substantially more progress in this area. In relation to the five expansion provinces initiated in
2007, initial development and capacity building commenced. In relation to the final three
provinces initiated in 2008, preliminary activity to expand the project resulted in a SAT being
appointed in each province; however, adjudication start-up activities stalled in the last 12 months.
Government revenue from land transaction fees significantly increased the funds available for the
government to use to provide social and economic services. At project end, seven of the nine
PLOs were generating more annual revenue than their operating costs, providing a basis for future
financial sustainability. Other PLOs could be expected to progress towards cost-effective
operations if NLMA continued registration capacity building and implemented the proposed
community education program.

There were also a number of major sector outcomes. These include: improved social and
economic status of more than 350,000 households; consolidation of the Higher Diploma in
Surveying and Land Administration at the Polytechnic School; effectively operating Provincial
Land Offices in nine provinces, following Model Land Office criteria and performing according
to agreed service standards; improved governance with a focus on the Land Office as the primary
service delivery point and with a gradual shift toward decentralisation.

The Project's commitment to women's rights, based on an efficient community education
program, and resulting in a high rate of titles registered to women or as conjugal property, can be
viewed as an example for similar international projects.

AusAID commends our Lao counterparts on this project for the very high levels of engagement
and dedication that resulted in the excellent results outlined above.

However, many decisions made towards the end of the project are likely to negatively impact on
the sustainability of some of the gains made. These include: the redefinition of priorities; the
mobilisation of key personnel to organise land tax collection; assigning staff to prepare land use
planning maps; expanding land administration activities to the district level; and appointment of
SAT contract staff to districts.

Lessons learned include: sustainability requires an active commitment by NLMA to the long-term
viability of regional land office operations; the need for an integrated and negotiated land policy
document that guides rational development of policies and institutional change has been
demonstrated by recent activities; the value of integrating policy development with technical



                                                63
processes to ensure consistent development towards agreed goals; the value of co-locating
Technical Assistance into counterpart sections has also been demonstrated.

GTZ

GTZ support for LTP2 ended on June 30, 2009. From July 1, 2009 GTZ has started supporting
NLMA in Xayabouly and Luang Namtha provinces focusing on land registration in rural
communities, building the inventory of land concessions, land conflict resolution and land use
planning. The former Land Policy Development Project was renamed "Land Management and
Registration Project".




                                             64
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bell, K. C. (2006), World Bank Support for Land Administration and Management: Responding
   to the Challenges of the Millennium Development Goals, Paper presented at the XXIII
   International Federation of Surveyors (FIG) Congress, October 8-13, 2006, Munich.
Bruce, J., Giovarelli, R., Rolfes, L. Bledsoe, D. and Mitchell, R. (2006), Land law reform:
   achieving development policy objectives, Law, Justice and Development Series, the World
   Bank, Washington, DC.
Deininger, K. (2003), Land Policies for Growth and Poverty Reduction, A World Bank Policy
   Research Report, The World Bank and Oxford University Press, Washington, DC, Oxford.
Feder, G., et al, (1988) Land Policies and Farm Productivity in Thailand", World Bank,
   Washington D.C., 1988.
Government of Lao, PDR, Prime Minister's Office: Decree on the Compensation and
   Resettlement of the Development Project, No 192/PM, July 2005, Vientiane,
Government of Lao PDR (2005), Regulations for Implementing Decree 192/PM on Compensation
   and Resettlement of people affected by Development Projects; No. 2432/STEA, November
   2005, Vientiane.
Government of Lao PDR (2003), Land Law No.04; enacted by the National Assembly on October
   21, 2003, Vientiane.
Government of Lao PDR (2003), Lao Land Titling Project Socio-Economic Baseline Study,
   prepared by Lahmeyer International and Lao Consulting Group for the Ministry of Finance,
   October 2003, Vientiane.
National Land Management Agency (2009), Implementation Completion Report received on
   December 21, 2010.
Oliver, S. (2009), Lao-Australia Property Rights and Land Titling Project - Draft Independent
   Completion Report, AusAID Aidworks Initiative Number INF379, March 31, 2009.
Government of Lao PDR (2009), Summary of Implementation Completion Report (LTP II),
   December 2009.
Virachit, V. and Lunnay, C. (2005), The Lao Land Titling Project: Innovative Land Tools in Lao
   PDR, Paper presented at the UNESCAP- Expert Group Meeting on secure land tenure: `new
   legal frameworks and tools,' December 8-9, 2005, Bangkok,
World Bank (2009), Lao PDR: Investment and Access to Land and Natural Resources:
   Challenges in Promoting Sustainable Development - A Think Piece, Draft, October 16, 2009,
   Washington, DC.
World Bank (2007), Laos: Land Titling Project, Implementation Completion and Results Report,
   Report No. 36582, June 27, 2006, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2006), Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR, Washington D.C.
World Bank (2003-2009), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including DCA, Loan
   Amendments, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project
   Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments; IRIS, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2005), The Lao People's Democratic Republic (LAO PDR) ­ Country Assistance
   Strategy 2005-2008, Report No.: 31758-LA, March 10, 2005, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2003), Laos ­ Second Land Titling Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report
   No: 25921-LA, May 2003 29, , Washington, DC.
World Bank (1999), The Lao People's Democratic Republic (LAO PDR) ­ Country Assistance
   Strategy 1999-2002, Report No. 19098-LA, April 1999, Washington, DC.



                                             65
Annex 10: Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission

National Land Management Authority - NLMA
 Mr. Kham Ouane BOUPHA, Head of NLMA, Minister of PMO
 Mr. Kideng THAMMAVONG, Vice Minister, Deputy Head of NLMA and LTP2 Project
  Director
 Mr. Siphandone SIHAVONG, Director General, DoL and LTP2 Deputy Project Director
 Mr. Khambone SISOUK, Head of Division, Administration Division, DoL
 Mr. Sivixay SALIVANH, Head of Section, Administration Division, DoL
 Mr. Vongkeo THIPHABOUNHEUANG, Administration Division, DoL
 Mr. PHOUNSAVATH, Deputy Head, Land and Property Valuation Section, DoL
 Mrs. NOUANTHA, Head of Valuation Section, DoL
 Mr. KHAMLEK, Head, State Land Management Division, DoL
 Mr. SOMCHIT, Deputy Head, State Land Management Division, DoL
 Mr. Vongdeuane VONGSIHALATH, Director, Department of Land Use Planning and
  Development
 Mr. Bountieng SANAXONH, Head, Land Use Planning in Rural Area Division
 Mr. SISOUPHANH, Head of Division, Cabinet Planning and Finance Division
 Mr. Sengpha-angkhane SOMCHANMAVONG, Deputy Head Cabinet Planning and
  Finance Division
 Mr. KHAMPHOUANG, Head of Accounting Section, Cabinet Planning and Finance
  Division
 Mr. OUNHEUANE, Deputy Director, Department Land Policy and Land Use Inspection
 Mr. SOUKSAMONE, Head of NLMA Cabinet, International Relationship Division
 Mrs. BOUAKHAM, Head of NLMA Cabinet Secretariat
 Mr. Chanthaviphone INTHAVONG, Acting Director General, LNRIRC
 Mr. BounNhong PATHAMMAVOGN, Head, Research Division, LNRIRC
 Mr. Khamdy PATHAMMAVONGSA, Head, Administration Division, LNRIRC
 Mr. Dr. Palikone THALONGSENGCHANH, Head, Training and Information
  Dissemination, LNRIRC
 Mr. Phommy THONGSAVATH, Deputy Head, Information and Data Division, LNRIRC
 Mr. Chanthalath SIHAPHONH, Head, Technical Information, LNRIRC
Land Management Agency for Vientiane Capital City ­ VCC
 Mr. Vila PENGKHEUAP, Deputy Head of VCC Land Management Agency
 Mr. Khamphanh PAVONGVIENGKHAM, Head of VCC Land Office
Land Management Agency for Bolikhamxay Province
 Mr. Khankeo VONGSAVANTHONG, Head of PLMA,
 Mr. Bouansy TOUNALOM, Head of Administration office
 Mr. Phoumiphonh SOUVANNALATH, Head of Land Office
 Mr. Khampha SENGSOULICHANH, Deputy of Land office Head
 Mr. Khemphone PHOMPHASA, Deputy Land Use Planning and Development
 Ms. Inta SISOUTHO Deputy Administration Head
 Ms. Viengsavanh VOUTHIPHOMMAVONG, Accounting
 Ms. Outhongkham KHAMMANIVONGSA, Finance staff
LTP II Institutional Partners
 Mr. Phongsavath OUANEPORMANY, Director, PC
 Mrs. Pakobkeo THOPAKHANE, Deputy Director, PC



                                          66
  Mr. Kongkham SOURIGNA, Deputy Director General, NGD, Prime Minister Office
 Mrs. Phonsy SIVONGSA, Deputy Director, Right Protection Dept., LWU
Other Institutions
 Mr. Bountern KEOVILAYVONG, Head, Credit Department, Lao Development Bank
 Mr. Khamsovane SISOUVONG, Former National Technical Assistance Coordinator,
  Managing Contractor for AusAID
Co-Financiers
 Mr. Florian ROCK , Team Leader, German Agency for Technical Cooperation ­ GTZ
FAO
 Mr. M. S. SHIVAKUMAR, Project Management Consultant
World Bank
 Mr. Keith Clifford BELL, Task Team Leader
 Mr. Patchamuthu ILLANGOVAN, Country Manager
 Mr. Sibounheuang PHANDANOUVONG, Social Development Specialist




                                          67
Map IBRD 33431




                 68
