Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23184-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
November 8, 2001
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Peso Colombiano
Col$ 1.00 = US$0.000433
US$1.00 = Co1$ 2309.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DNP             National Planning Department
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOC             Government of Colombia
IDB             Interamerican Development Bank
JCT             Groups for Judicial Change
JSRLB           Rodrigo Lara Bonimla Judicial School
LIL             Learning & Innovation Loan
NGO             Non Governmental Organization
PCUJ            Project Coordination Unit
PHRD            Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SCJ             Superior Council of the Judicature
SIIF            System of Integrated Financial Information of the Ministry of Finance
USAID           United States Agency for the International Development
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:   Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Felipe Saez



COLOMBIA
JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                       10
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                 11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   11
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        16
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                               19
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             19
2. Financial                                                                            19
3. Technical                                                                            20
4. Institutional                                                                        20
5. Environmental                                                                        21
6. Social                                                                               22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     24
2. Critical risks                                                                      24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      25
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                               25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             55
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Country Management Unit
LCC1C
Date: October 26, 2001                            Team Leader: Felipe Saez
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: Ernesto May
Project ID: P057369                               Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$5 million
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Commitment fee: 0.85% during the first four years; and   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
0.75% thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.67            1.00          1.67
IBRD                                                           4.10           0.90           5.00
Total:                                                         4.77            1.90          6.67
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: SUPERIOR COUNCIL OF THE JUDICATURE
Address: Palacio de los Tribunales, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Carlos Enrique Marin Velez. President, Administrative Board.
Tel: 57-1-562-9097           Fax: 57-1-565-8987            Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004  |
Annual    1.40        1.80       1.80                               _
Cumulative    1.40        3.20      5.00
Project implementation period: January 1, 2002 - December 31, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 02/15/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD F-n F  M,d.. 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. P'roject development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Project constitutes the learning phase of a long term initiative undertaken by the
Governument of Colombia, under the leadership of the SCJ, aimed at improving the rendering by
the Judiciary of judicial conflict resolution services. It is expected that the proposed Project will
allow the testing of a participatory and comprehensive organizational change strategy to bring
about change in the courts' operations which ensure people swifter, fairer and more transparent
conflict resolution services.
If the Project is deemed successful it would be extended to the totality of civil, labor and family
law jurisdictions in Colombia generating a substantial improvement in the overall justice
environment in the country and, particularly, in three key areas. In the first place, it would
contribute to improve the judiciary's social legitimacy and ability to respond effectively to the
society's justice needs. In the second place, it would create increased incentives for the resolution
of labor, family and civil conflicts through peaceful means, thus, improving the prevalence of the
rule of law and peaceful coexistence among Colombians. In the third place, it would enable a
more effective and lower cost enforcement of contracts, thus, enhancing a critical condition for
private sector development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A first set of indicators will establish the progress made in project implementation, particularly,
advancement in carrying out the change strategy for each of the Judicial Change Teams (JCTs)
envisaged under the Project. The Implementation Indicators for the various components will be
derived from the targets set forth in the performance plan agreed by each JCT with the SJC on an
annual basis as described below.
The ultimate success of the Project is not derived, however, from the implementation of the
various components of the comprehensive organizational change strategy. It is crucial that the
implementation of the change strategy generates substantial improvements in the output of the
justice services provided by the courts. The Output Indicators would be measured through: (i) a
significant reduction in processing time for case disposition in participating courts over a two-year
period (compared to baseline). The specific level of delay reduction will be agreed with each of
the JCTs and will be a function of the existing case load, the "ideal duration" of the various types
of procedures in accordance with the existing legal framework and the consensus reached
between the respective JCT and the SCJ as to the degree of increased efficiency in case
management that can be obtained by the courts derived from the Project. The SCJ leadership has
indicated that a delay reduction target of about 30% over a two year period is a reasonable target;
(ii) increased number of cases disposed per judge per year (above baseline). The specific level of
productivity improvement will be agreed with each of the JCTs. This will be a function of the
prevailing level of case congestion and the consensus reached by each JCT and the SCJ on the
degree of increased productivity in handling the courts' workload. As in the case of delay
reduction, the SCJ leadership has indicated that a 30% improvement in productivity over a two
year period is a reasonable target; (iii) increased satisfaction of users of participating courts (e.g.,
- 2-



lawyers & parties). This indicator will be measured through annual user surveys in a sample of
the participating courts.
Performance with respect to the Impact Indicators will be measured through: (i) evidence that
participating civil circuit courts are increasingly recognized by their peers as the best practice
model for civil, labor and family courts in the areas of: (1) swiftness and quality in the provision of
conflict resolution services; and (2) high productivity in the use of judicial resources (# of cases
disposed by judge per year); (ii) increased demand by court users, judicial leadership and public
for a switch of all civil, labor and family courts to the new service standard supported by the LIL;
and (iii) evidence of judges and judicial personnel which are not participating in the Project
increasingly adhering to the policy objectives and organizational changes adopted under the LIL.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107 CO Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The project is addressed in the CAS Report (Report # 17107 CO) of October 15, 1997 and the
CAS Progress Report (Report # 19805) of November 18, 1999. This project will contribute to
the overall development objectives of the CAS. Specifically, it supports activities whose goals
include: (i) deal with some of the institutional deterninants of violence in Colombia by ensuring
the primacy of the rule of law via improving the judiciary's social legitimacy and ability to respond
effectively to the society's judicial conflict resolution needs; (ii) contribute to poverty alleviation
since an improved rule of law should specially protect and benefit the poor which are most
affected by violence; (iii) improve governance in Colombian society by increasing the social
legitimacy and effectiveness of the judiciary; and (iv) contribute to private sector development by
improving the quality and swiftness of judicial conflict resolution mechanisms. The project is
included as part of the Government's priorities contained in the GOC's National Development
Plan 1998-2002.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
During the recent decades, the Judiciary in Colombia -as is the case in most countries in the
Region- has been subjected to mounting pressures for reform. These pressures are derived, in
part, from a deterioration of the judiciary's social standing as a bulwark for the protection of
human and social rights, as a forun for the fair and effective resolution of disputes and the
penalization of criminal behavior and the inability of judiciaries to meet a demand which is
growing in number, complexity and diversity. The inability of judiciaries in the Region to cope
with mounting judicial demand has taken a dramatic turn in Colombia. The increased fragility of
the rule of law that judiciaries are called upon to uphold and promote can be considered as an
important contributor to the high level of prevalent violence, including the perverse and increased
tendency towards different forms of private justice.
The principal efforts undertaken by Colombia in improving judicial performance have focused on
the organizational and governance set up of the judiciary and the criminal justice system. As part
of a comprehensive Constitutional Reformn approved in 1991, Colombians established a number of
- 3 -



new judicial institutions: a) a specialized constitutional jurisdiction to carry out substantive
constitutional control of the state institutions and an effective enforcement of the individual and
social rights; b) a specialized judicial administrative body -the Superior Council of the Judicature-
entrusted with promoting the more efficient use of judicial resources and operations; including the
handling of the judiciary's planning, human resource and administrative functions, and c) a
wholesale restructuring of its criminal justice system via the establishment of an autonomous
Attorney General's Office and the revamping of the inquisitorial process and its replacement with
a system which has entrusted the Attorney General's Office with enhanced authority and means to
promote greater expediency and effectiveness in pursuing criminal responsibility.
These efforts were accompanied with a build-up in justice expenditures. Public expenditures on
justice increased from 0.65% of GDP in 1990 to 1.14 of GDP in 1996, reflecting an average real
annual increase in justice expenditures of 17% during those years. This increment does not
imply a proportionate increase in resources available to the judiciary since they were aimed mostly
at meeting increased costs linked to the establishment of the Attorney General's Office and other
institutions established under the 1991 Constitution. Investment expenditures represent aboul
10%No of the total sector budget which is heavily concentrated in physical infrastructure. Thus,
there has been little room left for investments promoting institutional and organizational change.
The build-up in justice expenditures has been backtracked partially during the second half of the
decade as a result of growing fiscal constraints.
The corollary of the efforts to improve justice administration in Colombia is that there has been no
appreciable improvement in the contribution of the justice sector to uphold the rule of law as a
crucial bearing for peaceful social coexistence:
* There has been limited progress in reducing the rampant impunity problem that plagues
Colombia. Recent studies indicate that two out of three homicides are not subject to judicial
criminal investigation in Colombia and that 95% of violent deaths are abandoned without
reaching the stage of identifying offenders and potential responsibilities. These poor resu]ts
are certainly not the exclusive responsibility of the Judiciary. It is in part the result of the
growing conflict with the guerrilla and paramilitary groups with its outcome of death and
destruction overwhelming the state's penal authority. It is also the result of bottlenecks in
other components of the criminal system, particularly the police's investigative capacity and
the poor utilization of the state attorney's office prosecuting capacity.
* There have been limited efforts to improve the quality and expediency of other areas of justice
administration such as civil and commercial law, family and labor law. The lack of priority
assigned to these areas would seem unwarranted since a strong majority of the justice
demands is directed, precisely, towards these sectors. The main source of judicial congestion
is concentrated in Colombia's Civil Justice System. This issue is further discussed in relation
to the congestion issue.
* Little progress has been made in order to improve access to justice by the poor,
notwithstanding their growing demands and needs. The constitutional mandate to establish
community based tribunals headed by lay judges selected via popular elections and deciding on
- 4 -



equity grounds was only acted upon by Congress through the approval of the Law of Judges
for Peace in December 1998. Efforts for actual implementation of this law are still pending.
*  There have been some relevant efforts to improve the efficiency in resource use within the
Judiciary, i.e., the issuance of a new judicial map aimed at balancing judicial resources with
demand and the implementation of a performance evaluation system. The results of these
measures have generated some improvements in judicial productivity but there is still some
significant room for improvement.
* The new governance structure created by the Constitution of 1991 has generated some mixed
results. On the one hand, it has generated an increase in judicial activism with the Judiciary
increasingly in the protection of basic human rights and key constitutional rights. On the other
hand, it has generated coordination challenges and potential for conflict and overlap in
jurisdictions. This was particularly so in the mid nineties. Recent developments reflect a
smoother coordination among the various governing judicial bodies.
The Access to Justice Issue. Access to justice constitutes a major issue in Colombia as reflected
in a recent household survey undertaken by the SCJ in the main urban centers. This survey
showed that only about 9% of the conflict resolution demand arising from households is met by
the formal judicial system and about 11.5% of criminal demand by the Attorney General's Office.
Over 43% of conflicts were resolved by the population without resort to official or officially
promoted conflict resolution mechanisms and institutions. The restricted access to official
institutional arrangements for dealing with interpersonal and social conflict severely limits the
ability of people to enforce their rights effectively, perpetuates prevailing power structures and
portrays and promotes the use of force/power as an effective means of resolving conflicts. The
high incidence of personal injury among minor criminal offenses (over 43% of total reported
criminal offenses) constitutes a strong indication of the prevailing trend to resolve disputes via
personal injury. Thus, increasing justice coverage should constitute a high priority of the
authorities in their quest for reducing interpersonal and social conflict.
Issues of fiscal sustainability and the cultural barriers constitute critical constraints in improving
access of the poor to judicial services. Pursuant to the household survey, over 40% of the
population that could have sought judicial relief did not do so mostly due to negative cultural
preconceptions, i.e., lack of trust in the effectiveness and credibility of the judiciary. Cultural
constraints limit the options for expanding judicial coverage to non-judicial programs such as the
proposed Justices of Peace initiative and the expansion of the Houses of Justice Program. Despite
the approval in 1998 of the Law establishing the Justices of Peace Jurisdiction, there has been
limited progress in the implementation of the Law. The Houses of Justice Program is being
actively supported both by IDB and USAID. The Bank will not be dealing directly with issues of
access to justice. It is expected, however, that over the medium term an improvement in the
delivery of conflict resolution services by the judiciary, both in terms of quality and productivity,
will generate incentives for some of those groups with restricted access to seek redress for their
grievances in the Judiciary.
-5 -



The judicial congestion and delay issue. A key factor contributing to the poor image of the
courts in Colombia is the deficiency in the provision of judicial conflict resolution services. There
are two indicators that are broadly utilized to describe the feebleness of the Colombian Judiciary:
its high degree of congestion and process delay. Congestion, defined as the stock of unresolved
disputes introduced to the judicial system that are not dealt in an annual judicial exercise, has
become chronic. By the mid nineties, absorving the backlog of civil cases (representing 32% of
total judicial demand) would require 6.2 years of current court capacity. The figures on
congestion two years later reflect a substantial, while yet insufficient, improvement in congestion
levels. By end 1999 the backlog had been reduced almost by one third reducing the absorption
period to 4.6 years. There is no definitive explanation for this improvement in judicial
congestion (other than improvement in statistical data). During Project implementation an
in-depth assessments of the causes of reduction of congestion among the participating courts will
be undertaken.
Process delay is one of the factors contributing to this high congestion level. When compared
with the duration of procedures envisaged in the various procedural codes, reality seems to
substantially surpass the most pessimistic estimates. Executive proceedings last in reality 336'l K
more time (1.301 vs. 298 days) than envisaged in the Civil Procedure Code. Regular civil
proceedings last 432% more (2.048 vs. 469 days) than the prescribed legal procedure.
Indicators of congestion and judicial delay are, however, output indicators. They reflect
deficiencies in judicial performance but do not denote its cause. A sample of 100 executive
procedures were exhaustively studied and discussed in interdisciplinary workshops that included
judges, practitioners, academicians, etc. The conclusions of those workshops enabled a different
view of the incentives and constraints driving judicial proceedings. The workshop on executive
proceedings identified some deficiencies in the structure of the executive procedure derived from
the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, namely, a relatively long process averaging 300 day7s,
a high level of dispersion in the various procedural stages and the mixing of jurisdictional and
adnministrative tasks, all of them assigned to the judge. Reality indicated, however, that problems
were more severe than those derived from a review of the legislative framework:
*  Judges adopted a very low profile in the conduct of proceedings, enabling the parties and
court officers to unduly delay the handling of the cases;
*  High levels of inefficiency in the management of the administrative aspects of proceedings
which absorb over 50% of actual process duration.. A main culprit of this situation is again
the assignment of these functions to judges who have very limited skills and advantages in this
field.
The conclusions derived from the review of the executive process have been confirmed in later
analysis of the ordinary civil and labor processes. The most intriguing paradox is derived from the
experience in the handling of labor proceedings. The legislator had established a streamlined
procedure consisting in not more than four hearings and the virtual eradication of any form of
written proceedings. Despite the explicit legislative mandate the traditional practices continue tO
prevail with labor cases averaging 1647 days against a normative maximum of 260 days, a delay
overrun of 633%.
-6 -



The judicial quality issue. Improvement in judicial performance is not tantamount to reductions
in judicial delay or congestion or access betterment. It relates mainly to the perceived soundness
and fairness of judicial decisions by the public. In itself, judicial quality constitutes a critical
dimension in any attempt to improve overall judicial performance. There would be no increase in
social welfare derived from a judicial machine that issues swift judgements which are perceived as
unfair or unsubstantiated.
There are three basic dimensions of judicial quality that seem particularly relevant for purposes of
the Colombian Judiciary. The first dimension deals with the introduction of immediacy in case
management, thus, the transformation of the judges' role as a remote agent communicating with
the parties mostly in writing into an active and direct participant in the resolution of the judicial
controversy. Immediacy requires that the judge adopts decisions based on first hand knowledge
of the process and derived from his active participation in, inter alia, hearings, witness
examination and direct interaction with the parties. The second quality dimension is the
introduction of pro-activity in case management, a crucial component of any delay reduction
strategy. Judges must change their present subordination to the pace and agenda of the parties
and pursue, as a priority public interest, swiftness in conflict resolution. As part of the swiftness
elements, judges must ensure strict adherence of litigants to principles of good faith and equality
of opportunity among litigants and address squarely and expediently issues arising from
conflicting juridical or social values.
A third dimension of quality refers to the fairness and soundness of the judicial reasoning judges
should exercise in resolving disputes. The prevailing rule-oriented and formalistic judicial
reasoning should gradually leave room to enable a more inductive and principled based judicial
reasoning process to take hold. This would ensure a closer identity between judicial decision
making and the juridical principles and social values prevailing in a society, thus, enhancing the
norm creation function of modern judiciaries. Judicial decisions should also base the non-legal
aspects of the controversy on sound scientific and technical information and judgements. Current
mechanisms and criteria for the appointment of court experts prevent in most cases acquiring high
caliber scientific and technical knowledge to underpin judicial decisions.
The issue of corruption in the judiciary. The Judiciary's standing before public opinion in
Colombia is y affected by issues of effectiveness in the provision of judicial services, the degree of
independence of the judicial branch and from a widespread perception that the system lacks
integrity. Judicial delay -the main challenge identified under this project- seems to be at the
forefront among the problems affecting the dispense of justice. The proposed project is also
expected to contribute to improve the Judiciary's integrity by developing an environment that
precludes or mitigates the incidence of corrupt practices. As referred above, the introduction of
immediacy in the conduct of proceedings, the need for judges to decide issues in hearings under
the scrutiny of the public and the need to back those decisions on socially relevant values, are all
elements that will contribute to improve the credibility of the Judiciary as an instrument to solve
social and inter-personal conflict. By the same token, these measures will substantially increase
transparency in judicial operations and constitute an effective deterrent for corrupt practices. The
SCJ is expected to be closely involved in other activities being undertaken by the Bank in the fight
- 7 -



against corruption. The Bank is working with the National Program for the Fight Against
Corruption headed by the Vice President of the Republic with the aim of defining a
comprehensive program for the fight against corruption that will enlist the participation of all
relevant social actors involved in anti-corruption activities.
Proposed Project Change Strategy. The complexity of the judicial organizational structures
points towards the need for a multifaceted reform strategy. This strategy should include
initiatives in the cultural, normative, organizational, technological and logistic aspects of judicial
conflict resolution.
As with any other type of organization, to introduce change in a judicial organization some basic
preconditions must concur, namely, there should be a sense of crisis and dissatisfaction with the
status quo, high level of support for the introduction of reforms within the organization, and the
leadership should be committed to, and have clarity on the direction of, the proposed change.
Thereafter, the organization should define a clear, straightforward path of change which the
leadership feels amply excited and empowered to push forward. Unfortunately, some of these
prerequisites are only partially in place in the case of the Colombian judiciary.
The Colombian judiciary has a clear sense of the need to improve the rendering of judicial services
to the population and is intensely aware of the level of dissatisfaction with judicial performance in
broad sectors of society. Because of various circumstances -i.e., too much reliance on legislation
as a means to bring about change and limited organizational capacity to plan and implement
reform strategies- there has been limited progress in improving judicial performance. In view of
the limited experience with change initiatives, the possibilities of effecting rapidly implemented,
massive change in this type of organizations are low. This constitutes a clear lesson from regional
experiences in promoting other initiatives of judicial reform.
On the upside, the Colombian Judiciary presents some promising opportunities: (i) members of
the leadership are fully aware of the need for change and are strongly committed to bring about
reforms; (ii) there is growing awareness in the judicial rank and file for the need to change and
there are increasing numbers of isolated pilots attempted in various cities to improve the handling
of disputes The most promising of those initiatives has been the process of change initiated by a
group of judges in the Municipality of Itagui in the Department of Antioquia. This initiative has
been able to introduce significant improvements in the standard of service afforded to the public
by pooling the secretarial and administrative services provided by the various courts in one central
administrative unit. This initiative, however, has not dealt with the need to improve delay and
congestion and presents poor results in those areas. The Project preparation team has worked
intensively with the judges of Itagui to reflect the lessons of their experience in this project. T he
changes in the formal organizational structure proposed under the LIL are substantially derived
from the Itagui experience, and (iii) there is growing consensus in terms of the general direction of
the proposed change and the need to develop significant change experiences. The proposed
operation would attempt to help build the pro-change constituency and momentum and develop a
best practice experience which would provide the basis for a stronger and broader change
initiative.
-8 -



The project will attempt a hybrid change management approach that will assume a commanding
role from the SCJ leadership while leaving the impetus and motivation for reform at lower levels
of the judicial echelon, where the change in judicial performance has to actually take place. This
approach will also ensure a significant role for extra-judicial players operating in an advisory and
monitoring capacity. Under this approach, the judicial leadership would provide the vision, the
key corporate targets and a menu of strategies and the qualitative and quantitative indicators.
The Judicial Change Teams (JCTs) will agree with the SCJ on the pace, specific contents and
sequencing for implementing change in each of the participating cities. The JCT Advisory Boards
will make proposals for the formulation of specific performance agreements by each JCT and the
SCJ, agree with them on their respective roles and responsibilities in the implementation of a JCT
change strategy and participate in the evaluation and monitoring of the respective performance
agreements.
The JCTs will be composed of the members of each of the participating civil circuit courts and
undertake to meet specific performance indicators consistent with the proposed change strategy.
Within this hybrid approach, the leadership would provide in a top down manner the hardware
items of the reform strategy (including the institutional legitimacy) and enable the JCTs to develop
a participatory dynamic that focuses on the software, mostly cultural/competencies elements of
the strategy.
As part of the LIL exercise 5 JCTs would be established, one for each of the cities of Bogota,
Cali, Medellin, Barranquilla and Bucaramanga, with a composition of 5-10 circuit judges (from 30
to 50% of the current circuit judges in each city) and the professional and administrative staff of
each of the courts. In view of the pilot nature of the operation, the legal agreements will
envisage the possibility for the SCJ and the Bank to agree to changes in the cities and type of
courts in which the JCTs will be established without requiring a formal amendment of the
agreements. The activities initiated with the JCT of the city of Bogota, comprising 17 judges and
the respective court personnel, has shown the extraordinary potential of this approach as it is
already generating positive change in their respective courts and developing a team spirit that had
been lacking in the past.
JCT Advisory Boards will consist of representatives of: (i) non-governmental organizations and
academic institutions involved in legal and judicial reforrn issues; (ii) bar associations; (iii) justice
services users; and (iv) mass media.
To enable the participatory dynamic to take hold three key measures will be undertaken. One, the
judicial leadership will strongly endorse the change initiative and put in place an incentive
framework that will induce the JCTs to undertake proactive and innovative change. Up to know,
participatory change initiatives emerging from enthusiastic rank and file members have not been
actively recognized by the judicial leadership. Two, the whole change process in each JCT will be
facilitated by a project coordination unit reporting to the SCJ. This unit will ensure that all inputs
required by the JCTs in terms of software (change management advisory, training, etc.) or
hardware (improved filing systems, computerized information systems, etc.) to bring about change
are provided in a timely and adequate manner. Third, both the SCJ and the JCT leadership will
allow an active role for the JCT Advisory Boards in the various phases of implementation of the
-9-



change strategies.
The hybrid strategy, with the involvement of the actors referred above, will be ultimately reflected
in a performance agreement between each of the JCTs and the SCJ which will lay out the various
co3nponents of the reform strategy, the pace of change proposed, the sequencing and articulation
of the various components and the specific performance targets to which each JCT will be
accountable.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The proposed operation fits squarely with the features of the Learning and Innovation Loan
instrument. The Project is modest in size, as it has been designed as a pilot operation involving
so]ne 37 civil circuit courts. The focus of the Project is the testing of a participatory and
comprehensive organizational change strategy which attempts to tackle concurrently the key
lex ers of the courts' organizational structure, including its culture, human resource capabilities
and competencies and work processes. Each of the specific project components is seen as part
and1 parcel of the strategy contributing to deal with specific elements of the prevalent court
organizational structure. This strategy, as a means to bring about judicial change, contains two
innrovative features which, if proved valid, would make a significant contribution towards
improving judicial conflict resolutions services in Colombia and probably in many other judiciaries
in. the developing world.
The first innovation attempts to deal with the very limited experience with change that has
prevailed within the judicial systems in the Region and which has prevented bringing about
significant improvements in judicial services. The Project is introducing as an original feature,
and will attempt to test, a hybrid change strategy (discussed above) which is aimed at gradually
building up a pro change constituency within the judiciary by providing judges and judicial staff an
active role in the change process. Thus, project implementation will enable us to determine
whether the proposed change strategy will generate a significant change dynamic within the
various groups of participating judges and contribute to breed a virtuous demonstration effect
within the judiciary.
The second innovation deals with the traditional custom of attempting judicial change mainly
through the introduction of legislative changes or reforms in the formal organizational structure of
courts. These attempts have had limited incidence in improving the courts day to day conflict
resolution functions. The proposed operation seeks to sidestep these traditional approaches to
generate judicial change and focuses instead on a comprehensive organizational change strategy
ainied at tackling concurrently critical institutional and organizational factors affecting the way
courts deliver judicial conflict resolution services. The strategy will specifically privilege
corporate culture and improved competencies as the driving forces that may generate improved
court performance. These elements will be complemented with hard components (formal
organization structure, information systems and facility rehabilitation) which are intended to
contribute to increase court productivity. It is expected, therefore, that project implementation
will enable us to ascertain whether the focus on corporate culture and improved competencies as
the driving forces of change, and the strategic orientation and content of those components, are
the appropriate levers in improving court performance.
- 10-



4. Learning and innovation expectations:
O Economic    X Technical    C Social      Z Participation
Zl Financial    1 Institutional  El Environmental 3 Other
The proposed LIL will be deemed successful if both basic innovations are duly implemented (i)
that the Project through its participatory method is able to generate a strong pro-change alliance
within the Judiciary; and (ii) that the various project components are able to change the courts
towards team-based, result-oriented organizations that genertate the outputs described above as
Output Indicators. In order to assess the progress and results derived from the learning
experience, annual independent assessments of performance by the various JCTs will be
undertaken.
If the Project is deemed successful, the expected outcome is that the innovative elements tested in
this operation would be mainstreamed as the best practice for all conflict resolution services
provided by the judiciary in the civil, labor and family courts. The specific strategy for replicating
this experience on a nation-wide basis and the potential Bank involvement would be discussed
with the Government and the SJC in due course. The Project's success would significantly
minimize the current risk of attempting judicial change since the LIL would have helped
developed a solid pro change constituency, proven the proposed strategy as valid and effective
one and generated a virtuous demonstration effect for the rest of the court system.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will consist of three distinct but highly interrelated parts.
PART A: COMPREHENSIVE CHANGE STRATEGIES FOR PARTICIPATING
JCTs
The proposed project will support a comprehensive organizational change process in 37
participating civil circuit courts in the main urban centers of Colombia aimed at generating notable
improvements in the expediency and quality in the provision of conflict resolution services and in
the productivity of judicial resource use. The comprehensive nature of the change strategy
derives from the attempt to tackle concurrently the key levers of the courts' organizational
structure, including its culture, human resource capabilities and competencies and work processes.
The comprehensive change strategy to be adopted by each of the JCTs will consist in a
combination of the various components described below with the objective of attaining some
specific performance targets. Following you will find a brief description of each of the
components that the JCTs may select in order to construct their respective change management
strategy.
- 11 -



Cultural Change Component. The project will establish a discrete line of activities aimed at
changing the prevailing cultural traits prevailing among the various JCTs and the staff of the
vaIious participating courts.
The project will support a change management process with each of the JCTs, including the
definition of the proposed change strategies and corresponding adjustmnents in the prevailing
judicial culture. The cultural module will involve pilot courts carrying out diagnosis of their
prevailing cultural traits, their congruence with the intended changes and the promotion of
pro-change values such as leadership, innovation, team work and client responsiveness. The
obJlective is to generate team norms and values that will be congruent with the changes in case
management and work processes promoted under the Project. For this purpose, the project wLll
finance expert assistance to work with the JCTs and other critical actors in designing and putting
in place a change management strategy that underpins the reforms aimed at improving justice
delivery. This phase of the cultural change process culminates with a definition by each of the
JCTs of their vision and mission as a team, the strategies to bring about their new vision and
mission and the corresponding performance indicators.
Human resource competencies and capabilities component. Improvements in the competencies
an(I capabilities of the participating civil circuit courts, particularly of the judges who are expected
to assume a leadership role in the change process, constitutes a critical element of the proposed
change strategy. The training program will seek to introduce the modem party disposition
paradigm and its practical consequences by discussing with the participating judges in a highly
interactive mode the implications of the change proposed at three levels of knowledge: (i)
jurisprudence elements supporting the proposed case management changes; (ii) the
legislative/precedent framework enabling the introduction of the proposed changes in case
management; and (iii) the skills and technical abilities that would improve effectiveness in
implementing the proposed changes, i.e., the effective management of hearings, negotiations and
alternative dispute settlement techniques.
The training process will cover a six month period that will be divided in two distinctive phases:
(i) a series of intensive workshops for a total of about 15 days covering both theoretical and case
discussions; and (ii) four to five months of tutoring in the interim periods between the various
workshops aimed at applying the new case management policies in the day to day judicial
practice. The terms of reference for the proposed training program, including the change in the
jurisprudence paradigm attempted through this training is available in the project file. This terms
of reference have been discussed with the leadership of the SCJ, of the JSRLB and the judges of
the JCT of Bogota.
The core of the training effort will be focused on the judges presiding each of the participating
couirts and some of their key professional assistants. The project will also support training (i) for
participating court staff on the overall change effort and the technological and organizational
changes that will be implemented as part of the project; and (ii) for relevant judicial actors
-lawyers, court experts, etc.- on their new role and functions derived from the proposed changes
in conflict resolution services. The training will also be extended -although in a less intensive
manner- to other teams within and outside the judiciary to ensure that the change process starts
to permeate beyond the pilot courts.
- 12-



Organizational structure change. The Project will support technical assistance to introduce
critical changes in the circuit courts' organizational structure. These changes are congruent with
the proposed case management reform and contribute to improved court productivity. Although
the project would provide flexibility to finance different initiatives in this field the following
matters have already been identified:
* Unbundling of judicial and administrative activities.
A major focus of organizational change will consist of removing judges from handling
administrative matters and ensuring that the jurisdictional functions -undertaken proactively
and with immediacy- are assigned to a strong and qualified team within the court under the
judge's direct leadership. Administrative functions currently performed by courts (in the case
of the executive process, well over 50% of total process duration) would be eventually
removed from the judges' managerial responsibility.
This component will require the financing of expert assistance in both administrative and
organizational management for purposes of designing the various reform alternatives and
implementing reform initiatives in the pilot courts. The SCJ, with the assistance of the PHRD
Grant, has hired a firm that has carried out a diagnosis and proposed some alternative court
organizational structures.Based on those alternatives, the SCJ has approved some new forms
of judicial organizations which will be tried under the proposed project. As part of the LIL
experience, the organizational experts will work together with the JCTs in implementing and
evaluating the impact of the alternative organizational models proposed. It will be left to the
JCTs to decide the pace and sequencing of the organizational changes. The organizational
experts will assist the JCT in implementing the changes and training staff in their new roles
and functions.
-  Improving the provision of expert advise services to the courts.
A study to improve the utilization by courts of experts on specialized technical and scientific
matters is currently underway. The proposed project will finance the technical assistance
necessary to implement the changes that are adopted by the judicial authorities in this field.
*  Introducing changes in the courts' work processes to enable the changes in case management
and improve user service.
At this stage two main areas of work process changes have been identified, namely,
simplification of a number of administrative processes dealing with judicial notices, judicial
deposits, etc., and strengthening the use of hearings as a key tool to ensure immediacy and
expedite the resolution of judicial controversies. It is expected that other process initiatives
that emerge from the change process could also be supported under the loan. The proposed
project will finance the provision of technical assistance and investments in information
systems, equipment and other elements required to introduce the proposed process changes in
the courts' operations.
Information systems. The Project will support the installation and initial operation of a
computerized case management system among the participating civil circuit courts and,
eventually, other courts whose experience in this field is deemed relevant for the change initiative.
- 13-



The new case management software was commissioned by the SCJ which has also initiated the
acquisition of hardware for the installation of the system. The software has been tailored in
accordance with the Colombian procedural regulations and has built-in a high level of versatili y
that matches the proposed organizational and institutional reform initiatives.
This component will provide for:
*  The acquisition of additional software and hardware to install the computerized court
management system, including the financing of ancillary civil works, materials and equipment;
*  The provision of technical assistance and training to make the system operational; and
*  The provision of supplementary services to convert the existing court manual files into
electronic files.
The LIL will finance primarily the two latter elements. The Judiciary will contribute the
counterpart funding for this project by primarily financing the software and hardware iterris of
the information system.
Courlfacilities. The project will support improvements in court facilities to enable the
adjustment of the existing court infrastructure to the requirements of the new case management
systems and to ensure improvements in productivity. Two key areas of facility improvements
have been identified:
*  Introduction of modem court filing systems to improve the handling and organization of case
records and make it compatible with the introduction of hearing-based procedures. The
present filing and documentation system lack systematic classification and organization and
has serious shortcomings in terms of safety, handling and classification of information and
conservation techniques.
*  Physical infrastructure improvements mostly related to the modification of the courts' plant
layout to allow for hearing rooms, computerized case management, court administrative
service centers and modem filing systems. The infrastructure improvements will be
complementary to SCJ's infrastructure investment priorities.
The project will finance the materials, equipment, fumishings and civil works related to these
various facility improvements.
- 14 -



PART B: DEVELOPMENT OFANAPPROPRIATE POLICYAND SUPPORT
ENVIRONMENT FOR THE PROPOSED CHANGE STRA TEGY
Communication andparticipation initiatives. The Project will support a broad communication
and participatory strategy by the SCJ aimed at ensuring the support from the public and the
involvement of relevant actors in the proposed judicial change initiative. The communication
strategy will consists of events, publications, and other means deemed necessary to promote the
proposed change effort among judicial staff, media, relevant judicial actors and public opinion at
large. The participatory efforts will consists in events, technical assistance and other activities
aimed at ensuring the involvement of a wide range of actors in the proposed change initiative.
Performance evaluation and rewards. The Project will support two initiatives to introduce
changes in the present scheme of performance evaluation:
*  It will provide technical assistance to assess the objectives, performance and impact of the
current performance evaluation system and to implement a revised system which is congruent
with the proposed organizational change strategy that would be applicable at least initially to
the JCTs. The latter could also include the necessary information systems, equipment and
training.
*  It will institute a pilot program of individual and team incentives, initially focused in the
participating civil circuit courts, to reward attainment of the performance indicators by the
various JCTs and to promote activities within the judiciary related to the proposed
organizational change initiative.
PART C: PROJECTMANAGEMENT. MONITORINGANDEVALUATION.
The project will finance the costs related to the management, monitoring and evaluation of the
proposed organizational change strategy. It is envisaged that a project coordinating unit will be
established within the SCJ which will undertake the responsibility for ensuring that the demands
arising from the JCTs for implementing the respective change initiatives are properly met. The
coordinating unit will liaise with the corresponding technical units within the SCJ to ensure
appropriate use of the existing institutional capacity. The project will finance the staffing,
equipment, travel and operational costs related to the operation of the coordinating unit and the
technical assistance requirements arising from project management.
- 15-



0Indicative          Bank-   0 :   1;of
Component                  sector       costs   %/ of   financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
PART A. Comprehensive Change                         5.43      81.5      3.91      78.2
Strategies.
PART B. Development of Appropriate                   0.46       6.9      0.39       7.8
Policy and Support Environment.
PART C. Project Management,                          0.77      11.6      0.70      14.0
Monitoring and Evaluation.                                                     _
Total Project Costs                  6.66    100.0      5.00     100.0
Front-end fee                   0.00       0.0      0.00      0.0
Total Financing Required                   6.66     100.0      5.00     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements. The SCJ would assume the main responsibility for program
implementation. For this purpose the SCJ will enter into a Project Agreement with the Bank.
The SCJ is governed by an Administrative and a Disciplinary Board composed of six and seven
magistrates, respectively. The Administrative Board has assumed direct responsibility for
directing the project. The SCJ's administrative structure is designed along functional and
territorial lines. The functional responsibilities are assigned to 6 units: planning, training, career
development, knowledge and documentation management, physical development and auditing.
Territorial functions are carried out by 22 departmental units, largely corresponding to the main
political subdivisions in Colombia. In the case of the Project, it will have direct relationship with
the five departmental units where the five main urban centers are located.
A Project Coordination Unit has been established to advance project preparation activities. In
that capacity, the PCU has been responsible for the preparation and pilot advancement of some of
the activities envisaged under this LIL. The PCU will report to the Administrative Board. In the
discharge of its duties the PCU will: (i) respond to the demands and initiatives arising from the
JCTs in carrying out the various project components; (ii) ensure an effective liaison between the
JCTs and the SCJ and, particularly, promote an adequate utilization of the SCJ's installed
institutional capacity; and (iii) ensure compliance with the Bank's requirements in the areas of
procurement, disbursements and financial management. The SCJ agreed during negotiations to
maintain the PCU during the whole implementation of the LIL adequately staffed and provide
the PCU sufficient administrative and operational autonomy to enable an eff icient
implementation of the project. During the course of project preparation the PCU has been
brought up to an adequate operational level. However, a phase-in process will be required to
insert the PCU within the SCJ's administrative structure. As a condition of loan effectiveness,
the SCJ would have taken actions to establish the PCU and hire the core professional staff,
During negotiations it was agreed that the core professional staff would consists of the Project
Coordinator and the professionals responsible for cultural change and training and for the
management offinancial and administrative affairs. The proposed JCTs and each of the courts
comprising the JCTs will constitute the key organizational units for the Project. This will be the
- 16-



point at which the change, and the various activities in which it will reflected, will be initiated,
agreed and implemented. In this respect, the formal structure of the SCJ (including the PCU)
under the present design, is expected to respond and help implement the change initiatives
emerging from each of the JCTs.
Implementation arrangements. The project will be implemented in a period of three years ending
on December 31, 2004. The Closing Date for the project would be June 30, 2005.
In view of its inherent experimental nature, the proposed LIL will not have from the outset a
detailed implementation plan. The specific implementation plans will be agreed between the SCJ
and each of the JCT pilots through performance agreements that will include the proposed change
management plan proposed for the respective JCT during the following calendar year and the
related performance targets for the respective JCT. It is expected that the project will have a
gradual build-up of implementation experience by incorporating annually one or two JCTs. In this
way, the SCJ and the PCU will be able to plan and ensure a steady growth in their operational
capacity and benefit from the lessons and experiences obtained under each of the prior JCT pilots.
As part of the preparation effort some pilot activities have been initiated with a group of 17 civil
circuit court judges in Bogota. The Bogota JCT will be the first JCT expected to undergo the
process of formulation and negotiation of a performance agreement with the SCJ. During
negotiations it was agreed that SCJ will submit to the Bank the Bogotd JCT performance
agreement not later than November 30, 2001. It is expected that the Bogota JCT performance
agreement, as well as all the other performance agreements envisaged under the Project will
follow the following process: after having undergone a preliminary phase of familiarization with
change processes, the JCT will define its change strategy for the following twelve-month period
within the policy framework and broad objectives established by the SCJ. The PCU will discuss,
on behalf of the SCJ, with the JCT the consistency and degree of effort implied by the proposal,
ensure that the agreed output indicators are fully consistent with the project's overall objectives
and that there is congruence with the expected content and degree of change effort. Once the
PCU feels it has reached a meaningful agreement, it will submit the agreement for approval to the
SCJ. The agreed performance agreement, including the output indicators, will constitute the main
guide for project implementation in each of the JCTs and provide the basis for evaluating each
JCTs performnance. During negotiations it was agreed that, except for the timing of the
Bogota JCT case referred above, the SCJ will submit to the Bank not later than October 31 in
each year (starting with the year in which a JCT initiated its participation in the project), a
performance agreements for the participating JCT congruent with some basic criteria agreed
between the Bank and SCJ, namely, target performance indicators in terms of delay
reductions and improvements in productivity based in reliable base lines and seeking
improvements amounting to about 30% in a period of two years. SCJ also agreed to carry out
an independent assessment ofperformance by each JCTfor the previous calendaryear, not
later than June 30 in each year; exchange views with the Bank and DNP on such report by
September 30 of the respective year and discuss the results of the assessment and
consultations with the Bank and DNP with each JCT and their respective advisory board of
extra-judicial actors not later than October 31 in each year.
- 17-



Current implementation plans for the Project call for initiating the implementation of a
performance plan with the JCT of Bogota and initiate the preparatory work for the performance
plan for the JCT of Medellin in calendar year 2002. During the second year of implementationi
the project would expand its activities to the cities of Cali and Barranquilla. In its third year of
implementation the project intends to initiate activities in the city of Bucaramanga. The proposed
implementation plan is tentative and may be modified during Project implementation by agreement
between the SCJ and the Bank to respond to changing priorities or lessons from experience.
In the initial stages of project implementation, the SCJ will plan and undertake three types of
activities: (i) pre-investment activities (consisting mainly of cultural change and training events i
aimed at establishing the ground work for the setting up of a JCT in those cities where a
performance agreement has not been finalized; (ii) the investment and other activities comprised in
a performance agreement agreed with a JCTs; and (iii) support activities to improve the project
policy environment. Once the Project has extended to all the participating JCTs, the investment
plan will consist mostly of the aggregate performance plans agreed with the participating JCTs.
During negotiations, SCJ agreed to submit to the Bank not later than December 15 in each
year, an annual implementation plan for the Project that will contain the overall investment
program for the Project for the coming calendar year, including the specific investments
envisaged under the change management strategies for each JCT, the pre-investment
activities for JCT in formation proposedfor the following year and the overall support
activities for the Project. The Bank will review and approve the said annual implementation plan
once it is satisfied it is congruent with the proposed Project objectives.
A Project Manual has been prepared that describes the detailed arrangements agreed for purposes
of project implementation. As a condition of Loan effectiveness, the SCJ would have furnished
to the Bank an officially sanctioned Project Manual in terms satisfactory to the Bank. During
negotiations, SCJ also agreed that changes in the Project Manual would be made only after
obtaining agreement from the Bank. The administrative arrangements section contains the
detailed project organization, functions and responsibilities of the various actors and the
administrative policies in project implementation. Procurement arrangements provided in detail in
the Manual are described in Annex 6 to this Report. The financial arrangements section includes,
inter alia, the revenue and disbursement flows, the opening of a special account in the Banco de la
Repuiblica under terms and conditions described therein and the maintenance of separate accounts
for the project within SCJ's accounting system. During Project preparation SCJ has made
significant progress towards defining and implementing a satisfactory financial management
system. The system, however, will be highly dependant on the hiring of an agent that will provide
key project management assistance. As a condition of Loan effectiveness, it has been agreed
that SCJ would have hired a procurement and financial agent under terms of reference, and
with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank.
- 18-



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring and evaluation. The project currently provides for implementation, output and
impact indicators to assess progress in meeting the project implementation targets and objectives.
It is expected that the specific implementation indicators for each of the JCT will be agreed upon
by the SCJ and each of the JCT as part of the change management process and will consist mainly
in reduction in process time for case disposition and the number of cases disposed per judge per
year. A number of qualitative output indicators described in the performance indicators section of
this report will be assessed on an annual basis by independent experts hired by the SCJ. It is
expected these consultants will undertake surveys of judges, staff, users and other key actors to
assess progress in the proposed change strategy. The project will finance the consulting services
(including surveys) and required equipment and software linked to monitoring and evaluation.
During negotiations, the SCJ agreed to introduce, not later than December 31, 2002,
adjustments to its current performance evaluation system to ensure that it does provide clear
incentivesfor judges and staffparticipating in JCTs to perform in accordance with the
standards and objectives supported by this operation.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
N.A.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Fiscal Impact:
Because of its pilot nature, the project is not expected to generate significant additional fiscal
responsibilities. The project is, however, intended to derive some lessons regarding the expected
fiscal requirements arising from a judiciary that provides quality conflict resolution services.
Improvements in judicial performance quality present a special challenge for policy makers. The
poor performance of the current judicial system generates a double effect in terms of minimizing
fiscal costs: (i) it dissuades citizens from seeking judicial relief and opt for other forms of conflict
resolution; and (ii) can automatically adjust any mismatch between demand and supply ofjudicial
services by increasing judicial delays, i.e., it transfers to the litigants the cost of the supply
shortfall by extending the time period in which a case will be resolved. Under the fiscal
perspective, the maintenance of the present system would seem attractive since it transfers the
- 19-



hidden costs to litigants and to society at large -the latter in terms of weakening the rule of law
environment. On the contrary, the introduction of immediacy and other judicial quality
improvements may imply an increase in justice expenditure as a result of two combined effects,
namely, an increase demand by citizens for improved judicial services and the need for a lower
case/judge ratio as judges will invest a higher amount of their time per case through their direct
and active involvement in case management.
The basic working hypothesis for this operation is that increased judicial inputs derived from
improvements in judicial performance quality can be compensated by substantially improving
court productivity. Thus, the project would attempt to be fiscally neutral despite an expected
increase in judicial demand as a result of improvements in court performance and an increased
dernand of the judges' time per case. The main sources of productivity improvements would be
the following: (i) focusing judges in juridical matters and removing them from their current
involvement in purely administrative/operational matters; (ii) reducing process delay through an
active and decisive role of the judge in case management; (iii) introducing computerized case
management systems; (iv) developing court teams that would enable the judges to utilize
specialized assistance in case management; and (v) rationalizing the courts organizational
structure.
The pilot nature of this operation will enable the authorities to test the potential of increasing
judicial quality while maintaining fiscal costs without generating extraordinary claims on the fiscal
b'udget. However, if this experience would show that there can be no increase in judicial quality
without some increase in judicial expenditures it would be up to the judicial and fiscal authorities
to agree on the type of judicial quality society can afford. In this case, the project would provide
a reliable indication of the cost of quality justice provision in an efficient environment.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
A key technical issue dealt during the process of project preparation was the room provided by
the existing legislative framework to undertake the proposed changes in case management. After
thorough analysis it was concluded that the current legislative framework has been systematically
misapplied by judges that rather than active directors of proceedings have chosen to assume a
wait and see attitude until the stage of deciding the case. Thus, the pace and direction of the
process has been typically left for the parties to decide. Reversing the prevailing practice will not
be simple since there are vested interests to maintain the status quo. In fact, it is expected that
parties unsatisfied with the new state of affairs may bring disciplinary claims against innovative
judges that attempt, themselves, to put order and speed-up the resolution of disputes. Despite
these potential challenges, the legal foundations in which the project is based are strong and clear.
In fact, the project can be protrayed as an attempt to set right the use of the law.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The SCJ is the project executing entity. The SCJ is a corporation established by the 1991
Constitution responsible for the planning, human resource management and overall management
- 20 -



function of the Judicial Branch. In the discharge of its duties the SCJ is autonomous from the
various court systems -the constitutional, criminal, administrative and civil and social
jurisdictions. The SCJ is governed by an Administrative and a Disciplinary Board composed of
six and seven magistrates, respectively. The Administrative Board has assumed direct
responsibility for directing the project.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Unit has been established to advance project preparation activities. The
PCU will comprise a limited administrative structure (initially three professionals) and headed by a
unit director whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The demand driven nature of the operation -that leaves to each of the GJCs the decision
regarding the timing and sequencing of the various project components- does not warrant the
preparation of detailed procurement plans. Procurement activities related to the project are
expected to be relatively straightforward. An indicative Procurement Plan for the first year with
the most likely implementation scenario has been prepared and discussed in negotiations.
All contracts related to the soft/cultural/capacity building activities of the project will be of a
national scope and there is a high probability that the firms that are initially selected for the city of
Bogota would continue to perform the same role in the other participating cities, subject to
continued satisfactory performance. It may be in the interest of SCJ and the Project to have the
contract extended under similar terms and conditions for the reasons referred above. This would
imply a new contract that would be put out by the SCJ and financed under the Loan. A similar
situation may happen in the case of the communications, organizational change and training
components, if the firms perform in a satisfactory manner and it is in the SCJ's interest to continue
the assistance of such firms.
4.4 Financial management issues:
All financial management matters of the project will be under the direct responsibility of the PCU.
It will rely heavily, however, on the infrastructure and systems operated by the Accounting
Department of the SCJ. The accounting systems of SCJ and the staff responsible for their
management were assessed and found satisfactory as part of the Financial Management
Assessment undertaken during project preparation. Some minor adjustments will need to be made
to the current accounting system in order to enable it to conform to Bank requirements,
particularly in the record of transactions in currencies other than the Colombian peso. The
Financial Management Assessment provided as a key recommendation the need to strengthen the
PCU with a professional with substantial experience in the management of Bank financed
projects.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N.A.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N.A.
- 21 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N.A.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA.
report on the environmnental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N.A.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP'?
N.A.
6. Social:
6. I Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specif,y the project's social
dev-lopment outcomes.
N.A.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The proposed project has from the outset identified participation as the crucial tool to bring albout
effective judicial change. The only possibility for an organization to bring about significant
change in the delivery of conflict resolution services is through increasing the internal and external
dissatisfaction with the status quo and putting together coalitions of change agents within and
outside the organization that would have sufficient weight as to attempt innovation. To generate
momentum for change a deliberate effort has been made to hiave as many stakeholders possible
involved not only in consultations regarding the policy options available but also in terms of
sharing in the decision making process among the strategic options available and to privilege
consultation and collaboration with the rank and file judges that have been identified as those
more open to change and innovation. Thus, although the overall project design has been agreed
witlh the judicial leadership, a significant number of members of the organization at various levels
have made significant contributions in identifying and prioritizing the various elements of the
design.
Participation is also considered crucial in the implementation of the project which is basically a
participatory change strategy aiming mostly at a change in culture as a crucial factor in bringinlg
about improvements in quality and efficiency of courts. The possibility of making a dent in the up
to now impenetrable judicial culture of passive, individualistic and formalistic judges and courts'
staff will depend mostly in the ability of the proposed JCT to develop a new form of team culture.
The JCT is, however, not an artificial invention but a form of innovation that is already taking
place in some isolated regions in Colombia as a result of the initiative and will to change of
spontaneous groups of judges. The most lucid example of it is the experience in the city of Ita,ui.
The proposed project would differ from those spontaneous initiatives in that it would seek to
generate strong leadership support for the JCTs which would be valued as the best practice and
innovators within the organization. Thus, participation in the rank and file is the crux of the
change strategy that is proposed in the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
- 22 -



The key strategies to be pursued in improving conflict resolution mechanisms in Colombia were
identified in a two-day workshop convened in April 1998 with participation of the leaders and key
representatives of the Judicial Branch -including the Presidents of the Supreme Court and of the
Council of the Judicature- of the Executive Branch -including the Minister of Justice and senior
officials of the Planning Department- and representatives of the academia and NGOs dealing with
justice matters. The group carried out a detailed diagnosis of the main issues confronting the
justice system including the demand by the public for effective conflict resolution and the
responsiveness of the judiciary in meeting the conflict resolution demand.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The establishment of the JCT Advisory Boards which have been discussed above.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Through the involvement of the JCT AdvisoryBoards in monitoring and evaluation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     Q Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N.A.
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex -.1
Risk                     Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
I) issatisfaction of key constituencies       M          Develop a communications strategy that will
-judicial leadership, lawyers, clients of the            make available to all groups concerned the
judicial system, judicial employees and                  improved results of the participating civil court.
public opinion- with the LIL supported
changes on judicial case management.
Failure to obtain support from the            M          Develop detailed proposals on the legi.slative
political establishment in introducing                   changes needed to introduce full hearing-based
legislative reforms to support the court                 procedures and promote their advantages among
organizational changes on a system-wide                  all relevant groups, particularly members of the
basis.                                                   judiciary, the political establishment and public
opinion.
F ailure to reach consensus among judicial    M          Develop substantial evidence on the significant
leadership and economic authorities on                   social welfare returns derived from improved
the level of fiscal resources necessary to              judicial conflict resolution services and the
implant reforms on a system-wide basis.                  hidden trade-offs derived from stringent judicial
expenditure policies.
Judges sense that new Human Resources         M          Introduce condition requiring clear congruence
sy stem does not reward the introduction of              between incentive system and the introduction of
improved judicial processes.                             improved judicial services.
From Components to Outputs
Leadership of judiciary fails to generate     M          The initiation of some of the activities to ensure
an environment conducive to change that                  significant buy-in in the leadership of the
motivates the JCTs to act boldly in pursuit              change management strategy and refcorm
of the proposed change objectives.                       objectives.
Leadership of judiciary does not strongly     M          Same as above.
and consistently back the institutional
arrangements proposed for project
implementation.
Leadership of Judiciary does not approve      M          Introducing condition requiring clear congruence
cir effectively enforce changes on the                   between incentive system and the improved
performance evaluation and incentives                    judicial services.
system congruent with proposed
organizational changes.
Participant judges do not reflect the         M          Ensure that the process of selection of the
expected high levels of professional                     participating judges is conducted in accordance
excellence and personal integrity.                       with adequate criteria of leadership, integrity
and professionalism.
- 24 -



Insufficient availability of counterpart  M       Ensure that most counterpart contributions are
funds.                                            provided up front to reduce the risk of budget
cuts.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N.A.
G. Main LoanConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following are effectiveness conditions for this Loan:
(a) The SCJ would have taken actions satisfactory to the Bank to establish and staff
appropriately the PCU. The specific staffing requirements to ensure adequate loan
implementation was agreed upon during negotiations;
(b) That the Subsidiary Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the SCJ would
have been entered in terms satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) The SCJ would have hired a procurement and financial agent under terms of reference,
and with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) The SCJ will have issued the Project Operational Manual in terms satisfactory to the
Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
In addition to the standard conditions regarding the management of the Project and of the
proceeds of the Loan, the following are special conditions to be agreed during negotiations:
(a) The SCJ will maintain the PCU during the whole implementation of the LIL adequately
staffed and provide the PCU sufficient administrative and operational autonomy to enable
an efficient implementation of the project;
(b) The SCJ will agree to conclude with each of the JCTs on an annual basis and in any case
not later than October 31 in each year (starting with the year in which each respective JCT
initiated its participation in the Project), performance agreements that set forth the JCTs
change management strategy and targets for improved performance during the
corresponding calendar year;
(c) The SCJ will also agree to carry out an independent assessment of performance by each
JCT not later than June 30 of the immediately following calendar year and finish the report
of such assessment to the Bank for comments. For such purposes, the SCJ will hire
consultants whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) The SCJ shall agree to introduce changes in the Project Manual only after obtaining
agreement from the Bank.
(e) The SCJ shall agree to carry out the procurement of goods, services and works required
for purposes of the Project in accordance with the arrangements set forth in Annex 6;
(f) The SCJ will agree to introduce, not later than December 31, 2002, adjustments to its
current performance evaluation system to ensure that it does provide clear incentives for
- 25 -



judges and staff of the JCTs to perform in accordance with the standards and objectives
supported by this operation; and
(g) the SCJ will agree to have the project accounts for the calendar year 2002 and
thereafter, audited by a private external auditor to be hired by March 31, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
LI 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
iZ 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
LI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Projects stands ready for implementation. Some of the processes and activities envisaged as
part of the organizational change proposal have already been initiated in an experimental basis
with the JCT of the city of Bogota. The LIL's implementation plan has been thoroughly
d-iscussed and appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
NX 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies wvith
all other applicable Bank policies.
Felipe Saez                       Emesto May                         Olivier Lafourcade
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Key Performnance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve the judiciary's    Gradually improving public   *  ESW reports         *:  The improved rule of law
social legitimacy and ability   opinion regarding the      (occasional);              will specially protect and
to respond effectively to the   acceptability and effectiveness *  Government reports on  benefit the poor since
society's justice needs as a key of the courts for conflict  judicial indicators and  they are most affected by
input to ensure the prevalence resolution purposes.       improvements in civil       violence.
of the rule of law and     Gradually improving the         coexistence (occasional)  *  Improving legitimacy
encourage peaceful         access of the poor to conflict                             and effectiveness of
coexistence among          resolution services                                        judiciary contributes to
Colombians.                                                                           improvements in
governance in Colombian
society.
*:  Improving quality and
swiftness of conflict
resolution mechanisms
contributes to private
sector development.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Colombia's civil, family &
labor court systems utilize
more efficient and effective
conflict resolution methods.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To test a participatory and    Outcome / Impact Indicators:  *:  Supervision mission  *  LIL successes replicated
comprehensive change       *: Participating civil circuit    reports (periodic);      in follow-on large scale
strategy aimed at tackling the  courts are increasingly    *  Evaluation mission      operations;
key levers of the courts'      recognized as the best     reports (mid-term &      *:  New judicial conflict
organizational structure,      practice model for civil,  ICR);                       resolution methods based
leading to improvements in    labor and family courts in *   User and judicial        on a proactive judge and
the judiciary's timeliness,    the areas of: (i) a         personnel survey reports   hearings -backed by a
quality and productivity in    significant reduction in   (mid-term & final);         new legislative
discharging its conflict       processing time for case   *  Project coordination unit    framework- constitute the
resolution function.           disposition in             report on judicial          standard for all of
participating courts over  indicators (annual);        Colombia's courts;
a two-year period; (ii)                            *:  Increased consensus
increased productivity in                              among governmental
the use of judicial                                    authorities on the need to
resources (# of cases                                  make increases in judicial
disposed by judge per                                  expenditures to meet
year); and (iii) increased                             increased justice demand.
satisfaction of users of                           *:  Improved perception by
- 27 -



participating courts (e.g.,                              the public on improved
lawyers & parties).                                       performance of courts
*:  Evidence that                                            leads to an increase in the
participating civil circuit                              judiciary's social
courts are increasingly                                  legitimacy and standing
recognized by their peers                                 among the branches of
as the best practice model                                government.
for civil, labor and family
courts
*3 Increased demand by
court users, judicial
leadership and public for
a switch of all civil, labor
and family courts to the
new service standard
supported by the LIL.
+*  Evidence of non-
participating judges and
judicial personnel
increasingly adhering to
the policy objectives and
organizational changes
adopted under the LIL
- 28 -



1    Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                                    I   Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.  Notable changes in the   *.  30 % reduction in     *   Supervision mission     *. Increased dissatisfaction
values and norms that       processing time for case    reports (periodic);         of key constituencies
prevail among the GJCs      disposition in          *   Evaluation mission         -judicial leadership,
in terms of client          participating courts        reports (mid-term &         lawyers, clients of the
orientation, team work,     (compared to baseline);    ICR);                       judicial system, judicial
openness to innovation,   *  Increased nurnber of   4  Project progress reports    employees and public
clarity in the direction of  cases disposed per judge   (quarterly);                opinion- with the
change and                  per year (above baseline); *  Project coordination unit    traditional judicial
empowerment to          *  Increased satisfaction of    reports on judicial         conflict resolution
undertake it.              users of participating       indicators (annual);        services and increased
2.  Notable improvements in    courts (e.g., lawyers &  *.  Judicial Council report     consensus with
expediency and quality in   parties).                   on HR reform;               introduction of the LIL
providing conflict      *  Improved performance   *:  Independent assessment        supported changes on a
resolution services in 37   evaluation and incentive    report of LIL successes     system-wide basis.
participating civil circuit  system for JCTs            and failures.           *  Increased consensus
courts.                    developed and                                            among judicial leadership
3.  Notable improvements in    operational.                                            and political
productivity in the use of                                                          establishment in
judicial resources in 37                                                            introducing legislative
participating civil circuit                                                         reforns to support the
courts;                                                                             introduction of the court
4.  Priority physical                                                                  organizational changes
improvements made in                                                                on a system-wide basis;
participating courts to                                                         *  Consensus among judicial
facilitate process                                                                 leadership and economic
changes;                                                                            authorities in providing
5.  Colombian judiciary                                                                the fiscal resources
arrive at an improved HR                                                            necessary to implant
incentive system for JCTs                                                           reforms on a system-wide
congruent with proposed                                                            basis.
change strategy;                                                                *  Judges sense that new HR
6.  Assessment completed of                                                            system rewards the
LIL successes and                                                                  introduction of improved
failures.                                                                          judicial processes.
-29 -



1 7     7 Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy 1
Hierarchy of Objectives                Indicators            J                                  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I           Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:               (from Components to
Sub-components:                component)                                                      Outputs)
PART A: Comprehensive                                              Periodic reports (pursuant to  *>  Leadership of. udiciary
change strategies for                                          contract) by consultants        effectively establishes an
participating JCTs.                                            assisting in the                environment co iducive to
To generate notable                                            organizational change           change to enable the GJCs
irrprovements in quality and                                   process on progress by GJCs     and the 37 participating civil
expediency in conflict                                         and individual participating    circuit courts tc, act boldly in
re ;olution services and                                       courts in implementing the      pursuit of the proposed
pr:ductivity of judicial                                       change initiative.              change objectiv;es,
resource use.
1.  Cultural change.           $270,000                        *>  Project progress reports    *   Leadership of iiudiciary
TA to assist GJCs and                                          (quarterly).                    consistently basks the hybrid
ju licial authorities in the                                                                   institutional alTangements
organizational change                                                                          proposed for Fraject
pracess.                                                                                       execution.
2. Hurnan Resource             $700,000                        **  Disbursement reports        *   Leadership of. udiciary has
competencies and                                               (quarterly).                    approved and z rfectively
capabilities.                                                                                  enforce changc; on the
Training program for                                                                           performance ce.aluation and
participating judges on                                                                        incentives sys:em congruent
ccnflict resolution                                                                            with proposed
improvement.                                                                                   organizational changes.
rTraining program for key
court staff on technologi-
cal and organizational
ch anges.
Training program for
relevant actors (lawyers,
cturt experts) on conflict
resolution improvement.
3. Organizational structure    $170,000                        *    Audit reports (annual).    *   Participant ju.l,3es reflect
change.                                                                                        high levels of professional
* T r X to implement changes in                                                                    excellence an i personal
courts' organizational                                                                         integrity and demonstrate
structure: unbundling of                                                                       openness to innovation and
judicial and administrative                                                                    willingness tc lead the
,unctions.                                                                                     process of org:aLnizational
>  T X to improve provision of                                                                     change.
expert advice services to
.ourts.
*   'f 4 to implement changes on
courts' work and
administrative process.
4.  Information systems.       S1,200,000                                                      *   Timely availatility of
*   Software and hardware to                                                                       counterpart fiunds.
ariplement computerized
case management system.
*   r X to make operational case
management system. and
convert court manual files to
electronic files.
5. Court Facilities            SI,888,000
*M \dodern court filing systems.
phiysical infrastructure
- 30 -



improvements to modify
the courts' plant layout for
hearing rooms, compu-
terized case management,
court service centers and
modem filing systems.
PART B: Development of an   $360,000
appropriate policy and su-
pport environment for the
proposed change strategy
1. Communication and
participation initiatives.
A broad communication and
participatory strategy to
ensure public support and
involvement of relevant
actors.
2. Performance evaluation
and rewards.
*   TA on implementation of
judicial performance
evaluation and incentives.
*   Introduction of individual
and team incentives.
PART C: Project
management, evaluation
and monitoring.
1. Monitoring and evaluation.  $150,000
2.  Project Management.      $450.000
Operation of Project
Coordination Unit.
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.27 million
Cultural Change Component. The project will establish a discrete line of activities aimed at
changing the prevailing cultural traits prevailing among the various JCTs and the staff of the
various participating courts. Discussions with various teams of judges and judicial actors have led
us to identify some key cultural traits as significant obstacles to judicial change. Among those
traits, three seem particularly relevant in restraining change: (i) the introspective mentality
prevalent in judicial organizations leading to the repetition of their traditional tasks and work
processes regardless of changes in societies' needs. This mentality has made judiciaries insensitive
to increasing demands for improved access and quality of judicial services and defensive in
responding to exogenous demands for change; (ii) a low level of result orientation in the discharge
of their duties reflected in the impracticality of measuring performance by judicial operators under
the existing court information systems. Changing the current non-accountable culture into a
results-oriented environment will constitute a major objective of the change management
component; and (iii) a hierarchical, top-down governance structure generating fear to innovate
and individualism within the organization.
Development of a team-based culture that shares values and objectives and works together with
the authorities of the SCJ in developing a change initiative would constitute a significant cultural
innovation. The Project has identified change in the organizational culture as a critical component
of the overall change initiative due to the incongruity between the objective of introducing
improved timeliness, quality and productivity in case management and the cited cultural traits.
To introduce changes in the cultural set up of the participating courts, the project will support a
change management process with each of the JCTs, including the definition of the proposed
change strategies and corresponding adjustments in the prevailing judicial culture. The cultural
module will involve the staff of the pilot courts in carrying out diagnosis of the prevailing cultural
traits, their congruence with the intended changes and the promotion of pro-change values such as
leadership, innovation, team work and client responsiveness. The objective is to generate team
norms and values that will be congruent with the changes in case management and work processes
promoted under the Project. For this purpose, the project will finance change management
assistance to work with the JCTs and other critical actors in designing and putting in place a
change management strategy that would underpin the reforms aimed at improving justice delivery.
This phase of the cultural change process culminates with a definition by each of the JCTs of their
vision and mission as a team, the strategies by which they will attempt to bring about their new
vision and mission and the performance indicators by which they expect to be evaluated over time.
The project design will ensure close coordination and interaction among the consultants assisting
in the change strategy effort, those assisting in the field of competencies and capabilities
development and those dealing with organizational change.
- 32 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.70 million
Human resource competencies and capabilities component. Improvements in the competencies
and capabilities of the participating civil circuit courts, particularly of the judges who are expected
to assume a leadership role in the change process, constitutes a critical element of the proposed
change strategy. The training will also be extended -although in a less intensive manner- to other
teams within and outside the judiciary to ensure that the change process starts to permeate beyond
the pilot courts.
The training has been designed as a direct means to promote and underpin a change in the public
policy paradigm that has prevailed in the judiciary regarding the role of judges in case
management. The prevailing paradigm, designated as the Parties Disposition Principle, has
emphasized the prevalence of the private interests of the parties as the driving force in managing
civil procedures. Consequently, it has assigned judges a diminished and passive role in the
conduct of the proceedings, particularly in the stages of discussion and production of evidence,
and concentrated the judges' authority in the stage of final judgement of the case. The practical
consequences of this approach -i.e. the failure by judges to assume the protection of public goods
such as expediency and an effective pursuit of truth- generated a reaction among continental
scholars in the XIX Century aimed at mitigating such adverse effects. The modem disposition
paradigm -which prevails in continental Europe- recognizes an enhanced role for judges in civil
proceedings. This involvement consists in the judges playing a key leadership role in the
management of proceeding aimed at seeking swiftness, economy and quality in the discussions,
while guaranteeing due process for the parties. Unfortunately, this modem school of thought has
not permeated the judicial and policy environment in the Region. What is being proposed in the
training program is to modernize the policy paradigm that has prevailed in the education of judges
in Colombia.
The training program will seek to introduce the modem party disposition paradigm and its
practical consequences by discussing with the participating judges in a highly interactive mode the
implications of the change proposed at three levels of knowledge: (i) jurisprudence elements
supporting the proposed case management changes; (ii) the legislative/precedent framework
enabling the introduction of the proposed changes in case management; and (iii) the skills and
technical abilities that would improve effectiveness in implementing the proposed changes, i.e.,
the effective management of hearings, negotiations and alternative dispute settlement techniques.
The training process will cover a six month period that will be divided in two distinctive phases:
(i) a series of intensive workshops for a total of about 15 days covering both theoretical and case
discussions; and (ii) four to five months of tutoring in the interim periods between the various
workshops aimed at applying the new case management policies in the day to day judicial
practice. The termns of reference for the proposed training program, including the change in the
jurisprudence paradigm attempted through this training is available in the project file. This terms
of reference have been discussed with the leadership of the SCJ, of the JSRLB and the judges of
the JCT of Bogota.
The core of the training effort will be focused on the judges presiding each of the participating
- 33 -



courts and some of their key professional assistants. The project will also support training (i) for
participating court staff on the overall change effort and the technological and organizational
changes that will be implemented as part of the project; and (ii) for relevant judicial actors
-lawyers, court experts, etc.- on their new role and functions derived from the proposed changes
in conflict resolution services.
The training activities will be sub-contracted with universities and specialized firms. The domestic
market has an adequate offer for the provision of quality judicial training. The project will closely
coordinate these activities with the JSRLB. In order to ensure such coordination, members of
the JSRLB will be participants in the programs with the JCTs. The latter have been invited to
cornment on the terms of reference and participate in the committees evaluating the proposals. It
is also expected that the JSRLB will derive from this experience teaching materials and programs
which may be utilized for the training of judges at large. This experience should strengthen the
institutional capacity of the JSRLB in defining and supervising courses offered to the judicial staff.
In particular, ensure a more strategic focus of the products supplied by the academic/private
market in terms of content and methodology and in terms of congruence with the proposed
change objectives.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.17 million
Organizational structure change. The Project will support technical assistance to introduce
critical changes in the circuit courts' organizational structure. These changes are congruent with
the proposed case management reform and contribute to improved court productivity. Although
the project would provide flexibility to finance different initiatives in this field the following
matters have already been identified:
* Unbundling of judicial and administrative activities.
A major focus of organizational change will consist of removing judges from handling
administrative matters and ensuring that the jurisdictional functions -undertaken proactively
and with immediacy- are assigned to a strong and qualified team within the court under the
judge's direct leadership. Administrative functions currently performed by courts (in the case
of the executive process, well over 50% of total process duration) would be eventually
removed from the judges' managerial responsibility.The possibility of pooling those activities
and assigning them to specialized units that will perform them utilizing modem operational
methods that maximize productivity is a key objective of this component. The expectation is
that the process by which judges will devolve administrative responsibilities will be gradual to
ensure a smooth adjustment process that will not disrupt the day to day operation of courts.
In an initial stage, it would be expected that the participating courts will pool resources to
manage the provision of information to the public. This would be a logical follow up to the
introduction of computerized case management systems and the removal of a heavy
administrative burden to the courts day to day operations. In later stages, the courts would
seek to pool the receipt of briefs, the handling of deposits and other financial matters. This
process is envisaged to be culminated with the pooling of all administrative activities. This
component will require the financing of expert assistance in both administrative and
organizational management for purposes of designing the various reform alternatives and
implementing reform initiatives in the pilot courts. The SCJ, with the assistance of the PHIRD
- 34 -



Grant, has hired a firm that has carried out a diagnosis and proposed some alternative court
organizational structures.Based on those alternatives, the SCJ has approved some new forms
of judicial organizations which will be tried under the proposed project. As part of the LIL
experience, the organizational experts will work together with the JCTs in implementing and
evaluating the impact of the alternative organizational models proposed. It will be left to the
JCTs to decide the pace and sequencing of the organizational changes. The organizational
experts will assist the JCT in implementing the changes and training staff in their new roles
and functions.
* Improving the provision of expert advise services to the courts.
A study to improve the utilization by courts of experts on specialized technical and scientific
matters is currently underway. The proposed project will finance the technical assistance
necessary to implement the changes that are adopted by the judicial authorities in this field.
* Introducing changes in the courts' work processes to enable the changes in case management
and improve user service.
At this stage two main areas of work process changes have been identified, namely,
simplification of a number of administrative processes dealing with judicial notices, judicial
deposits, etc., and strengthening the use of hearings as a key tool to ensure immediacy and
expedite the resolution of judicial controversies. It is expected that other process initiatives
that emerge from the change process could also be supported under the loan. The proposed
project will finance the provision of technical assistance and investments in information
systems, equipment and other elements required to introduce the proposed process changes in
the courts' operations.
Project Component 4 - US$1.20 million
Information systems. The Project will support the installation and initial operation of a
computerized case management system among the participating civil circuit courts and,
eventually, other courts whose experience in this field is deemed relevant for the change initiative.
The new case management software was commissioned by the SCJ which has also initiated the
acquisition of hardware for the installation of the system. The software has been tailored in
accordance with the Colombian procedural regulations and has built-in a high level of versatility
that matches the proposed organizational and institutional reform initiatives.
This component will provide for:
* The acquisition of additional software and hardware to install the computerized court
management system, including the financing of ancillary civil works, materials and equipment;
* The provision of technical assistance and training to make the system operational; and
* The provision of supplementary services to convert the existing court manual files into
electronic files.
The LIL will finance primarily the two latter elements. The Judiciary will contribute the
counterpart funding for this project by primarily financing the software and hardware items of
the information system.
- 35 -



Project Component 5 - US$1.90 million
Court facilities. The project will support improvements in court facilities to enable the
adjustment of the existing court infrastructure to the requirements of the new case management
systems and to ensure improvements in productivity. Two key areas of facility improvements
have been identified:
*  Introduction of modem court filing systems to improve the handling and organization of case
records and make it compatible with the introduction of hearing-based procedures. The
present filing and documentation system which lack systematic classification and organization
and has serious shortcomings in terms of safety, handling and classification of information and
conservation techniques.
*  Physical infrastructure improvements mostly related to the modification of the courts' plant
layout to allow for hearing rooms, computerized case management, court administrative
service centers and modem filing systems. The infrastructure improvements will be
complementary to SCJ's infrastructure investment priorities.
The project will finance the materials, equipment, furnishings and civil works related to these
various facility improvements.
Project Component 6 - US$0.12 million
Communication and participation initiatives. The Project will support a broad communication
and participatory strategy by the SCJ aimed at ensuring the support from the public and the
involvement of relevant actors in the proposed judicial change initiative. The communication
strategy will consists of events, publicationsand other means deemed necessary to promote the
proposed change effort among judicial staff, media, relevant judicial actors and public opinion at
large. The participatory efforts will consists in events, technical assistance and other activities
aimed at ensuring the involvement of a wide range of actors in the proposed change initiative.
Project Component 7 - US$0.24 million
Performance evaluation and rewards. The Project will support two initiatives to introduce
changes in the present scheme of performance evaluation:
*  It will provide technical assistance to assess the objectives, performance and impact of the
current performance evaluation system and to implement a revised system which is congruent
with the proposed organizational change strategy that would be applicable at least initially to
the JCTs. The latter could also include the necessary information systems, equipment and
training.
* It will institute a pilot program of individual and team incentives, initially focused in the
participating civil circuit courts, to reward attainment of the performance indicators by the
various JCTs and to promote activities within the judiciary related to the proposed
organizational change initiative.
- 36 -



Project Component 8 - US$0.60 million
Project Managament, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will finance the costs related to
the management, monitoring and evaluation of the proposed organizational change strategy. It is
envisaged that a project coordinating unit will be established within the SCJ which will undertake
the responsibility for ensuring that the demands arising from the JCTs for implementing the
respective change initiatives are properly met. The coordinating unit will liaise with the
corresponding technical units within the SCJ to ensure appropriate use of the existing institutional
capacity. The project will finance the staffing, equipment, travel and operational costs related to
the operation of the coordinating unit and the technical assistance requirements arising from
project management.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Indicative   % of      Bank      % of Bank
Component                 Costs     Total    Financing    Financing
W(S$M)                (US$)      _
PARTA. COMPREHENSIVE
CHANGE STRATEGIES.
1. Cultural change                    270,000     5.2        270,000     100
2 Human resource competencies and     700,000    13.5        700,000     100
capabilities
3. Organizational structure change    170,000    3.2         170,000     100
4. Information systems               1,200,000    23.1       730,000      60.1
5. Court facilities.                 1,888,000    36.4     1,750,000      92.7
PART B. Development of appropriate
policy and support environment
Communication Strategy and            360,000     6.9        360,000     100
Performance evaluation and reward.
PART C. PROJECT
MA. NA GEMENT, MONITORING
AND EVALUATION.
7. Monitoring and evaluation          150,000     2.9        150,000     100
8. Project management                 450,000     8.7        450,000     100
Total Baseline Costs                5,188,000   100        4,580,000     83
Physical and price contingencies      420,000     6.3        420,000
Taxes                                1,058,000    16              0       0
Total Project Costs                  6,666,000   100       5,000,000     75
Total Financing Required            6,666,000   100        5,000,000     75
- 38 -



Annex 4 Cost Benefit Analysis Summary or Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
N.A.
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Required
Project costs
Inv/estment costs               2.4               2.17              2.10
Recurrent costs                   C0                                 0
Total Project costs             2.4               2.17              2.10
Total financing                 2.4               2.17              2.10
Financing                       1.4                 1.8              1.8
IB RD/IDA
Government                      1.0                .37               .30
Central
- 40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ", published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and "Guidelines Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Group", published in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement Methods
The main items for financing under the Loan will be consulting services (about 55% of the loan
amount and 45% of total project costs), civil works (about 40% of the Loan and 32% of total
project costs) and equipment (about 4% of the loan amount and 16% of total project costs.
Procurement of goods, works and services will be carried out in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The demand driven and gradual implementation strategy proposed for the operation
will require a significant level of desegregation of the contracts for goods, consulting services and
works envisaged under the project. In view of the size of the contracts for goods and works
expected, no international competitive bidding procedures will be carried out during project
implementation.
Consulting services
Consulting services are expected to be contracted under three different modalities: Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection would be the general rule for most of the consultant services envisaged
under the Loan. The only area where Quality-Based Selection is expected is in the field of judicial
training in view of the high level of specialization of the task and the expectation that proponents
will embark on a high level of innovation and explore beyond the traditional boundaries in this
field. Single-source selection may be warranted in the case of the consultant firms that has been
hired under the PHRD Grant to assist in the cultural and organizational change components. In
both cases the new tasks would represent a natural continuation of the experimental activities that
have been initiated in the city of Bogota and would be in the best interest of the SCJ to retain
firms that have had a satisfactory performance, have accumulated significant know-how regarding
the peculiarities of the judicial change process and developed trust and recognition among the SCJ
leadership and members of the GCJs. In both cases, the initial selection was undertaken under
QBCS and the terms of reference outlined the prospect for potential continuation of the program
with other GJCs.
- 41 -



Goods
Contract for goods will be limited to the financing of furniture and office equipment linked to the
refurbishing of existing court facilities and the set up of judicial administrative centers and some
software which may be needed to complement the substantial investment that SCJ has undertaken
in this field. There is only one contract for goods expected to exceed $200,000 equivalent, thus,
it i; proposed that only that contract be subjected to prior review and procured in accordance
with national competitive bidding procedures which are deemed satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts below the threshold of $150,000 and over $50,000 would not be subjected to prior
rex lew but continue to be procured under national competitive bidding procedures. Contracts
below $50,000 will be procured under national shopping procedures. It is expected that an
aggregate amount of about $80,000 would be procured under that method.
Civil Works
Contracts for civil works will consist in the refurbishing of existing court facilities and the set up
of judicial administrative centers. Contracts will be aggregated for each of the cities of project
intervention to ensure economies of scale and synchronization of infrastructure renewal with the
softer change components envisaged under the project. Three contracts for civil works exceeding
the equivalent of $200,000 will be expected. These will be tendered in accordance with national
comnpetitive bidding procedures. Contracts below that threshold will be subjected to national
competitive shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Summary Tables
The procurement methods to be used and the estimated amounts for each method are
sit nmarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in
Table B.
Procurement Process Responsibilities
SCJ, the project's executing entity, will be responsible for the overall procurement activities,
including compliance with the procurement conditions agreed with the Bank. SCJ has not had
hands-on experience in managing internationally funded investment projects and therefore has
been developing, in the process of project preparation, their own institutional capacity, basing
rmost of the effort in the PCU. In order to ensure an adequate focus in this new dimension of
SC J's activities they have decided to maintain the staff that has coordinated project preparation
activities and conferred the PCU substantial responsibility for coordinating all project related
efforts, including managing the procurement functions. Continuing the practice during the Bank
executed PHRD Grant and in order to ensure ownership and commitment from the various levels
involved in the project, significant contracts -due to their amount (over $200,000) or their
stritegic relevance for project objectives- will be tendered after approval of the terms of reference
oil bidding documents by an ad-hoc committee composed of a Magistrate of the SCJ, a senior SCJ
offilcial and the PCU staff. This has proven to be an excellent vehicle to ensure that there is an
adequate integration of the SCJ in project activities and that the views of all levels in the
institutions are considered in the definition and evaluation of main project contracts.
SC'J's procurement experience has been mainly related to the bulk purchase of electronic
equipment and the construction of new buildings both under national procurement laws. It has
- 42 -



developed a reasonable experience in hiring local consultants to undertake a myriad of studies
related to the operation of the judicial branch. In the area of training, through the Judicial School,
they have developed capacity to contract and manage the logistics related to training activities,
however, they have lacked the capacity to provide a strategic focus on their deals with training
contractors (mostly universities) and to ensure an adequate monitoring and evaluation of the
contracted training activities.
Three basic challenges need to be dealt with in the case of this project to ensure an effective
development of the procurement function: (i) trying to respond in a timely manner to the demands
arising from the various GJCs for goods, works and services, most of them of a moderate size and
low complexity; (ii) ensure that the contracting -particularly in the areas of organizational culture
and training- follows the priorities and contents that are being promoted by the project and (iii)
ensure that there is consistency among the procurement practices and rules applied for project
activities in the various participating cities.
To deal with these challenges the SCJ has decided that all technical matters related to
procurement for the project will be the PCU's responsibility. Actual bid evaluation will be shared
with representatives from relevant SCJ units and contract execution will be undertaken by the
entity's administrator. It is expected that there will be substantial continuity between the members
of the PCU and those that have participated in the coordination of the PHRD Grant. It has also
been decided that in order to ensure consistency in the norms and orientation of the procurement
effort, all contracting for the project will be carried out by the PCU in a centralized manner.
Procurement Qualifications and Experience
The appointed head of the PCU has had relevant experience in managing Bank financed contracts
and will be able to effectively supervise the work of the unit in this area. She is familiar with Bank
operations, has developed strong links with Bank staff dealing both with technical and operational
aspects of the project and should therefore constitute a critical asset in ensuring a smooth and
effective project start-up. Moreover, she has demonstrated strong ethical standards and a high
degree of professional integrity and commitment. This will certainly have a positive impact in
developing the right culture and commitment in the rest of the PCU members. Since most of the
project activities have already been initiated under the PHRD, it is expected that the transition
from the Grant to the loan will be practically seamless, thus, significantly minimizing the risks of
having a project start-up from scratch.
A specialized procurement professional will be responsible for day to day procurement operations
for the project. To strtengthen the PCU's capacity, SCJ will hire an experienced international
procurement and financial agent that will assist the PCU in these matters. Specific qualifications
of the consultant will include not less than 5 years general experience on procurement.
Preference would be given to candidates with experience on Bank procurement. The main
responsibilities of the consultant will include the review and up dating of the PCU's procurement
policies and drafting of the relevant section of the project's OM; developing of standard
documentation for shopping and individual consulting services; and handling of NCB
procurement. The PCU will have the critical mass of technical capability in the various areas of
the project (culture/training; electronic equipment/facility rehabilitation) that will work hand in
-43 -



hand with the procurement specialist in developing the terms of reference and bidding documents
required for project execution. It is expected that the recruitment of the PCU professional team
will be undertaken prior to the effectiveness of the project. It is our expectation that the
teaming-up of the theme specialist with the procurement specialist and the ultimate reliance on the
technical capacity in store in the various SCJ Departments, will provide us the adequate
professional basis to carry out effectively the procurement under the project. There are sufficient
experts in Bank financed procurement available in the local job market that may enable us to
choose a qualified professional. If work demand would indicate the need to expand the
procurement team this will be done in due course.
The Project Manual has developed a special section regarding the procurement rules to be
followed for the acquisition of goods and services under the Project. The rules reflected in the
Project manual are fully consistent with those included in the Loan Agreement. We will
endeavor to have project launching workshops for each of the cities in which the basic
arrangements for operation of the project will be explained to the GCJs members.
Procurement plans
The demand driven nature of the operation -that leaves to each of the GJCs the decision
regarding the timing and sequencing of the various project components- would not warrant the
preparation of detailed procurement plans. Procurement activities related to the project are
expected to be relatively straightforward. However, an indicative Procurement Plan for the first
year taking into account the most likely implementation scenario will be prepared and discussed in
negotiations.
Alt contracts related to the soft/cultural/capacity building activities of the project will be of a
national scope and there is a high probability that the firms that are initially selected for the city of
Bogota would continue to perform the same role in the other participating cities, subject to
continued satisfactory performance. As discussed above, the initial technical assistance for the
cultural change component has been contracted through a competitive process financed under a
Bank executed PHRD Grant. Although the initial contract had been expected to cover the total
cultural change process, it was later restricted to activities in the city of Bogota and the contract
price reduced to an equivalent of $70,000. It may be in the interest of SCJ and the Project to
have the contract extended under similar terms and conditions for the reasons referred above. This
would imply a new contract that would be put out by the SCJ and financed under the Loan. A
similar situation may happen in the case of the communications, organizational change and
training components, if the firms perform in a satisfactory manner and it is in the SCJ's interest to
continue the assistance of such firms.
Training will be tendered in one national contract on a QBS basis for the reasons referred above.
This contract has initially been tendered for partial financing under the PHRD Grant. As part of
project preparation a preliminary assessment of the capacity of universities for providing judicial
training has been undertaken. The short list of qualified universities included private and public
universities that operate at the national level given that both have very high academic standards
and experience in the field ofjudicial training. The possibility of developing consortiums between
the selected university and regional universities located in the various cities included in the project
- 44 -



will be encouraged to ensure the development of improved judicial training capacity in the
regions.
Contracts for equipment and furniture as well as for civil works will be tendered for each of the
participating cities to ensure responsiveness to their timing and logistical demands. There should
be only one, maximum, two civil works contracts for each participating city and probably one
contract for furmiture and equipment. Procurement planning will be undertaken in conjunction
with the other organizational change activities planned for each of the cities.
The PCU will establish a record keeping system to ensure that all procurement related activities
and documentation are adequately kept and stored. Initial Bank supervision missions should give
a high priority to the establishment of adequate record system, which together with the proposed
information system for purposes of recording financial transactions should guarantee adequate
accountability on all project related decisions.
Procurement records
Detailed procurement records for contracting the goods, works and consulting services required
for the Project will be maintained by the PCU. These records shall contain full documentation of
each of the phases required to contract a specific good, work or consulting service including bid
evaluation reports, signed contracts with related addenda and other useful information related to
the life of each contract. These records shall be maintained at least for a period of two years after
the project's closing date. The PCU shall be responsible for maintaining such records and ensure
they are kept in safe and adequate environment.
Frequency ofprocurement supervision
In addition to the prior review of contracts, the capacity assessment of the PCU indicates the need
for two full supervision missions to carry out post-review of procurement actions during the life
of the project.
Procurement audits
The PCU will provide to the Bank by March 2003 (Midterm review), a report by independent
procurement experts on the adequacy of the policies and procedures applied, and decisions made,
by the PCU in the conduct of procurement activities for the project. For such purpose, the expert
shall follow the policies and procedures that have been agreed between the Bank and the SCJ for
purposes of the Project.
Overall Risk Assessment
The overall risk assessment for the appropriate conduct of procurement business under the project
is considered average. This is based in two considerations: (i) the project is utilizing the
experience gained during the execution of the PHRD Grant and it is expected that there will be
continuity in the staffing of the PCU, thus, ensuring an adequate knowledge of Bank policies and
practices and a culture of professional and ethical integrity; and (ii) the SCJ is fully committed to
enable the PCU to follow Bank policies and practices and grant the PCU sufficient autonomy to
ensure its staffing with suitable professionals and in decision making.
- 45 -



A detailed Procurement Assessment was conducted by a Procurement Specialist. The Action
Plan derived from such assessment is summarized below:
* Completion of a Project's Operation Manual
* Preparation of an indicative procurement plan for the first year of the Project
* Agreement on Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of goods, works and selection
of consultants to be awarded under NCB, local shopping, and selection of consultants (QC'BS,
QBS, SS)
* Hiring of an expert in procurement and contract management
* Formalization of arrangements on delegation of authonrty for expenditures decisions to the
SCJ Executive Director
* Preparation of procurement audits report
* Contracting a specialized consultant for design and development filing system and
development of the system
* Completion of PCU's team
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.90           1.26          0.00        2.16
________________________        (0.00)           (0.70)         (1.05)        (0.00)      (1.75)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.84           0.46          0.00        1.30
_________________________        (0.00)          (0.35)         (0.08)        (0.00)      (0.43)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           2.04          0.00        2.04
Consultants                         (0.00)          (0.0()         (1.76)        (0.00)      (1.76)
Other Consultants Services
4. Unallocated                       0.00             0.00          0.37          0.00        0.37
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.37)        (0.00)       (0.37)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Front-end-Fee                     0.00            0.00           0.05          0.00        0.05
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.05)         (0.00)      (0.05)
Total                             0.00             1.74          4.18          0.00        5.92
_________________________        (0.00)          (1.05)         (3.31)        (0.00)      (4.36)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 46 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              1.51    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      1.51
(0.30)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.30)
B. Individuals        0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.23    0.00      0.53
(0.26)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.20)  (0.00)   (0.46)
Total  1.81    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.23    0.00      2.04
(0.56)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.20)  (0.00)   (0.76)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >200                    NCB                   First two
<200              National shopping            Expost
2. Goods                        >150                    NCB                      All
<150                    NCB                    Expost
<50               National shopping            Expost
3. Services
-Firms                         >75               QCBS, QBS, SS                 All
<75               QCBS, QBS, SS            Review of TORs
-Individuals                   >30               QCBS, QBS, SS                 All-
<30               QCBS, QBS, SS            Review of TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 18 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
Works                                1750000.00                    80%
Goods                                430000.00        100% of foreign expenditures and 84%
of local expenditures
Services                             2400000.00                    84%
Unallocated                           420000.00
Total Project Costs                  5000000.00
Front-end fee       0.00
Total                                5000000.00
Financial Management
All financial management issues of the project will be under the direct responsibility of the PCU.
It will rely heavily, however, on the infrastructure and systems operated by the Accounting
Department of the SCJ. The accounting systems of SCJ and the staff responsible for their
management were assessed and found satisfactory as part of the Financial Management
Assessment undertaken during project preparation. Some minor adjustments will need to be made
to the current accounting system in order to enable it to conform to Bank requirements,
particularly in the record of transactions in currencies other than the Colombian peso. The
Financial Management Assessment provided as a key recommendation the need to strengthen the
PCU with a professional with substantial experience in the management of Bank financed
projects.
The Bank's will seek during negotiations the hiring of an external auditor with adequate
qualifications and experience. While the Bank would have a strong preference for the hiring of a
private external auditor from the start of project operations, it would accept the opinion of the
Comptroller General for the accounts during calendar year 2001. It would, however, expect that
the hiring of the private external auditor to carry out the audit of the calendar year 2002 be hired
by March 31, 2002, to ensure a smooth transition. Auditors will audit the Special Account and the
other project financial statements annually. The audit report will be submitted to the World Bank
no more than 4 months after the end of each fiscal year. Detailed terms of reference for the
auditors will be prepared following guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook.
Although disbursement would be initially based in part in SOEs, the SCJ and the Bank will
exchange views during the second quarter of 2002 on the possibility of moving from the use of
SOEs to PMR's at the start of calendar year 2003. This matter will be evaluated based on
progress in the consolidation of the project's accounting and financial management systems.
- 49 -



Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept by the
PCU for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement takes place. For all
contracts requiring the Bank's prior review, full documentation will accompany disbursement
request until disbursement is uased on PMR's.
Detailed documentation will be retained by the PCU for inspection during supervision missions
andi for audit by external auditors acceptable to the World Bank.
Disbursements
Allocation of Loan proceeds (Table C): The total loan of US$5.0 million would be disbursed
over a three-year period in accordance with Table C. All project activities are expected to be
completed by December 31, 2004, and the Loan would close on June 30, 2005. Allocation cf
Loan proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the loan are presentecd in
Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the World Bank's prior review will
be submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements under contracts for goods
valued below US$150,000, all contracts for works below US$ 200,000, and for services below
U$50,000 for consulting firms and US$20,000 for individual consultants would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation to support these expenditures would
be maintained by the PCU and made available for review by the World Bank supervision missions
and project auditors. Documentation relating to SOEs and other project expenditures would be
retained for one year after the fiscal year in which the final withdrawal from the Loan will take
place. These arrangements for disbursements under SOEs will be phased out when the project is
converted to PMR-based disbursement.
Flow offunds arrangements and Special Account
The Loan will be made directly to the Republic of Colombia. A Special Account in US dollars will
be established in a special foreign-exchange account at Banco de la Repablica. Until aggregated
disbursement amount to US$1,000,000, the Special Account will have an initial advance of
US$200,000. After such threshold is met, the authorized allocation will be US$ 500,000. The
special account will be replenished monthly and will be used for all transactions with a value less
than 20% of the amount advanced to the special account. Traditional documentation
requirements apply for direct payments, special commitments and reimbursements not submitted
on the basis of statements of expenditures. If the project is converted to the PMR-based
disbursement, the authorized allocation will be increased to US$1 million and the special account
will be replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the PCU. The flow of funds arrangements
will be those provided under the SIIF whose establishment has been supported under a separate
Bank loan. The SCJ, as the executing agency for the project, is one of the entities that carries out
its budgetary and treasury operations through the SIIF. While the SIIF has currently some
restrictions in its use by public entities, particularly in terms of making direct payments to third
parties, the project will follow the arrangements agreed between the Government and the Bank
regarding flow of funds. The draft Project Manual provides a detailed description of flow of
funds arrangements under the SIIF.
- 50 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            23
First Bank mission (identification)              09/15/1999                   09/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                      06/15/2000                   06/20/2000
Negotiations                                     08/05/2001                   08/05/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/15/2001                   12/15/2001
Prepared by:
Consejo Superior de la Judicatura and World Bank team, with support from the National Planning
Department.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Felipe Saez                        Team Leader
David Varela                       Legal Counsel, Peer Reviewer
Mauricio Cuellar                   Procurement
Luiz Gazoni                        Procurement
Jairo Arboleda                     Participatory Strategy
Issam Abousleiman                  Disbursement Officer
Luis M. Schwarz                    Financial Management Specialist
Waleed Malik                       Peer Reviewer
Richard Messick                    Peer Reviewer
Pilar Mengod                       Team Assistant
Jose Augusto Carvalho              Legal Counsel
Mirtyla Lane                       Team Assistant
- 51 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Training Component
Terms of Reference composed of
Two documents: The Training Plan (Plan de Capacitaci6n) and
the Contents and orientations for the Training Plan
(Contenidos y orientaciones del Programa de Capacitaci6n)
Change Strategy
B. Bank Staff Assessments
N.A.
C. Other
*rIcluding electronic files
- 52 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
23-Oct-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P057692        2002 2nd Magdalena Medio Project                          35.47        0.00                  0.00       0.00      35.47        0.00       0.00
P040109        2001 CO PUBLIC FINANC. MANAGEMENT PROJECT II               0.00       0.00                  15.00       0.00      14.87        1.07       0.00
P063317        2001 COLOMBIA HIGH ANDES                                 160 00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     150.00        0.00       0.00
P069964        2001 CO- Human Capital Prot.- Cash Transfers              85.00       0.00                   0 00       0.00      75.75      26.47        0.00
P068762        2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)                20.00        0.00                  0.00       0.00       18.78       3.32       0.00
P065263        2000 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                    5.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       4.41       -0.59       0.00
P057326        2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT                100.00      0.00                   0.00       0.00      96.00       22.00       0.00
P050578        2000 CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                 225.00        0.00                  0.00       0.00     103.86       47.19       0.00
P044140        2000 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE                      5.00      0.00                   0.00       0.00       3.03        3.03       0.00
P050576        1999 ENVIRO                                               40.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      28.57       17.79       1.75
P006891        1998 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                  5.00      0.00                   0.00       0.00       2.80        2.14       0.00
P006861        1998 CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                                7.20       0.00                  0.00       0.00        3.57       2.74      -0.03
P053243        1998 CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                              75.00       0 00                   0.00       0.00      57.32       26.16       0.00
P046112        1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                                  15.00      0.00                   0.00       0.00       9.01        9.01       0.00
P006884        1997 CO- PASTO EDUCATION                                   12.50       0.00                  0.00       0 00        5.31       4.90       0.00
P040102        1997 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                       249.30       0.00                   0.00       0.00       4.39        4.39       4.39
P006887        1996 REG REF.TA                                           20.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       2.00        2.00      -0.78
P039291        1996 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)               145.00      0.00                   0.00       0 00      44.87       4386        0.00
P006894        1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                                 36.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       12.66      12.66      -5.44
P006893        1995 SANTAFE I (Water/Supply)                              11.00      0.00                   0.00       0.00        0.47       047        0.00
P006880        1995 ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          90.00       0.00                   0.00       0.12       0.12        0.24       0.24
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO
Total:     1331.47        0.00                15.00         0.12     673.25      228.92       0.13
- 53 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
lMAY-XO0 1         -
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
2001               CHMC                            4.05    10.00    0.00   12.95    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1974/01            Cementos Caribe                6.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00      0.00    0.00
1963/90            Coltejer                      25.00     0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                    30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1987               PRODESAL                       0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59       0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                       6.88     0.00    0.00   14.58    6.88    0.00      0.00   14.58
1994/95            Promisan                       0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23     0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                      0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Suleasing                     24.82    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                      0.00     5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
2001               Tolcemento                      3.33    0.00     0.00   10.67    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       100.10   20.92    25.00    38.20    15.15    8.32    25.00   14.58
Approvals Pending Commitrnent
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               CHMC                              0.00     10.00     30.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     10.00     30.00      0.00
- 54 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: JUDICIAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         42.3       516      2,046                  Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     2,020      3,680     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                        85.3      1 895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (I%)                                          1.9        1.6       1.0
Labor force t%)                                          2.7        2.3       1.3      GNI                               Gross
per           .,primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertv line)     55          .         .ta
Urban population (% of total population)                  74        75         42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          70        70         69
Infant mortality (per f/000 live births)                  23        30         32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 8         9         11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)      91        85         80
Illiteracy (% of population ape 15+)                       8         12        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-aae poPulation)     113        113       114         -Colombia
Male                                                  113          ..       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                112          ..       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            33.4      40.3       84.8      81.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 19.1      18.5       12.5      12.2
Exports of qoods and services/GDP              16.2     20.6       18.6      21.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     19.7     24.2       12.5      13.7
Gross national savinqslGDP                     19.6     21.6       10.5      11.9
Current account balancelGDP                     0.3      1.3       -0.2      -0.2      Domestic   ____ t
Interest pavments/GDP                          0.9       3.9        2.8       2.5      s                            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                20.8      42.8       40.7      44.3      savings
Total debt service/exports                     15.1     40.9       43.5      47.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..       39.7
Present value of debtlexports                                     221.8
Indebtedness
198D-90  1990-00      1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                   3.6      3.0      -4.1        2.8       4.7          -     Colombia
GDP per capita                        1.5      1.1      -5.7        1.0       2.9                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         7.5       5.3      4.7        5.3       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000       Growth of Investment and GDP(%)
(% of GOP)                                                                             40
Agriculture                                   19 9      16.7       13.8      13.8      40
Industrv                                      32.5      37.9       28.1      30.5
Manufacturing                                23.9     20.6       13.7       13.8
Services                                      47.6      45.4       58.1      55.7      20o                                  0
-40
Private consumption                           70.2      66.4       64.4      68.1    -60
General qovernment consumption                10.1       9.4       23.1      18.2                     GO[    - DOP
Imports of goods and services                 15.6      14.8       18.6      20.4
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
AQriculture                                    2.9      -2.2        0.2       5.2    30-
Industrv                                       5.0       1.7       -9.0       3.8     1>
Manufacturina                                 3.5     -2.3      -10.2        9.3     o         __                  _
Services                                       3 1       4.3       -1.1       1.9      0.
Private consumption                            2.6       2.6       -4.5       6.5    -15
General qovernment consumption                 4.2       9.5        3.9     -14.5    -30
Gross domestic investment                       1.4      2.1      -38.3      15.2             -Exports               Imports
Imports of goods and services                  0.4       94       -22.3       5.8
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 55 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
I% chanqe)                                                                          so
Consumer prices                               26.4     32.4        9.2      8.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                         27.6     28.6       10.2     10.7    3r
Government finance                                                                  1C
% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
C(urrent revenue                                ..    15.8        12.7     12.1             95   96   97   98    99
Current budget balance                           ..     6.8      -4.9      -5.3             -    GDP deflator  - e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..      3.9       -7.5     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1980     1990       1999      2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          4,255    7,139     11,569    13,115    20,000
Coffee                                     2,361    1,415      1,324     1,069
Petroleum                                    101    1,951      3,757    4,569      15,000 .
Manufactures                                 973    1.759      3,947     5,190
Total imports (cif)                          4,663    5,589     10,659    11,538    10,0
Food                                         296      245      1,426     1,428     s
Fuel and energy                              564      330       252       234
Capital qoods                              1,616    2,034      3,651     3,414        o -
94  95  96  97  98  99  21)
Export price index (1995=100)                   7       61        194       243
Import price index (1995=100)                   5       56        161       201                 3 Exports     U Imports
Tarms of trade (1995=100)                      126      110       121       121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999      2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(UIS$ millions)
E<ports of goods and services                5,747    8,687    13,866    15,608      0-  _
Irmports of goods and services              5,597    7,089     13,408    14,301     A                              99   03
Resource balance                              150    1,597        457     1,307
N et income                                   -211   -2,080    -1,422    -2,429
Natcurrenttransfers                           166    1,026        785       990    -3-      I
C irrent account balance                      105      544       -180      -132    -4 -
-inancing items (net)                         -430      53        502      -737     -s
,-anqes in net reserves                       325     -597       -322       869    -6
Memo:
Reserves including qold (USS millions)           .       .      8,103     9,006
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)              47.3   602.3    1,756.6   2,087.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
I, S$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Trctal debt outstanding and disbursed        6,940   17,222    34,538    35,968
IBRD                                        991    3,859      1,960     1,920                G: 3,965   A: 1,960
IDA                                          21       15          8         7    I                            8
Tctal debt service                            951    3,889      6,611     7,888                                   D: 4,252
IBRD                                        144      751        390      370
~DA                                           0        1          1         1                                     E ,7
C.cmposition of net resource flows
9fficial grants                               8       35        103
9fficial creditors                          280      -40        970      275
'rivate creditors                           531     -155      2,502     -415
moreign direct investment                   157      500      1,109     2,247
*'ortfolio equity                             0        0         25        1 7              F: 22,883
World Bank pngoram
Commitments                                 351      536        591       350      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               218      213        511       265      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
P'rincipal repayments                        66      435        271      244       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   152    -221         241        21
Interest payments                            79      318        121       127
Net transfers                                73     -539        120      -105
Development Economics                                                                                                   917/01
- 56 -









IBRD 31251
; 5 ; >t -; 9 -; : - 6 - Roch V X ) X~~COLOMBIA s.>
.~ ~~~~~~~S                                                         Ricchoc-.           -- aaa  ho,f e                              oa  
X                         :.At                                Sr                          f                            S 
+   :;-  +:  <  w         A          R        .                t                                 X    7       s  BOlMA  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  <  >< <X\Monfleria   ( lil X  05i f4ORTE fi                                        1EC
8  -   .  g  .  '> hCORD< 7a tt J C;cuta 5 a
F - - - * X \ / tS w g )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RA     I i ~etrreLnefshbndr 
-2  2  M E T A (F_= \ DE                                           70
w;  >~~~~~~~~~~~RO                                                     sh fth    ds Ppn *'pl    _ @                                          - (d Bankaee,,</ 
,;f~~~~~~O                                                                 Cot j                              s  ~7\G oU AVIARE    p, .jugot,~
Ar  N. T 4 I   U I                               A ANTA          E ARAUCAX 
|  f                 ,K ,~~~~~~~~~Ro      Casan                                                 \
*    Departrnentcopihis                           tuni            A M   A ZON A RS
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ia0c  CaF                                        H A;
ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ~~                     ~ Riir micencio
-*-  Internobonol ~ ~   ~    L  Manure                              E T A                     Guo
G            o U          I A 
A   50 I0 N50   M       I      LESrenci                                                                                        "'oo
7~~~~~~~~~~~~A                             A                              Ivi 7M o* 
|                           |                        Jo                                                        DECEMEER 200AUPE



