Report No. PID10603
Project Name                     Colombia-Judicial Conflict Resolution...
Improvement
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country
Management Unit
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       COPE57369.
Borrower                         Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency              Superior Council of the Judicature (SCJ)
Calle 12 # 7-65, 5o Piso
Palacio de Justicia
Tel. 57-1-562-9138
Fax 57-1-565-8945
Date PID Prepared                August  6 , 2001
Project Appraisal                July 15, 2001
Project Board Date       The Project is a Learning and Innnovation Loan
and is subject to approval by the Regional Vice President
1. Country and Sector Background
The proposed Project constitutes the first phase of a long term
initiative undertaken by the Government of Colombia, under the leadership of
the Judicial Branch, aimed at improving the rendering by the Judiciary of
judicial conflict resolution services in the civil, labor and family law
jurisdictions. It is expected that the development of improved conflict
resolution services will have three key positive effects. In the first
place, it would enable a more effective and lower cost enforcement of
contracts, thus, enhancing what is considered a critical condition for
private sector development. In the second place, it would create increased
incentives for the resolution of labor, family and civil conflicts through
peaceful means, thus improving the prevalence of the rule of law and peaceful
coexistence among Colombians.    In the third place, at the institutional
level, it would contribute to improve the judiciary's social legitimacy and
ability to respond effectively to the society's justice needs.
2. Project Objectives
The overall Project Development Objective consists in significantly
improving the Judiciary's timeliness, quality and productivity in discharging
its conflict resolution functions. The proposed operation fits squarely with
the features of the Learning and Innovation Loan instrument. The Project is
modest in size, as it has been designed as a pilot operation involving 32
civil circuit courts. It is aimed basically at testing two promising
innovations which, if proved valid, would make a significant contribution
towards improving judicial conflict resolutions services in Colombia and
probably in many other judiciaries in the developing world.
The Project is introducing as an original feature, and will attempt to
test, a hybrid change strategy (discussed below) which is aimed at gradually



building up a pro change constituency within the judiciary by placing the
initiative for change on judges. Thus, project implementation will enable us
to determine whether the proposed change strategy will retain the support of
the judicial leadership, generate a significant change dynamic within the
various groups of participating judges and contribute to breed a virtuous
demonstration effect within the judiciary.
The proposed operation seeks to introduce a comprehensive
organizational change strategy aimed at tackling concurrently critical
institutional and organizational factors affecting the way courts deliver
judicial conflict resolution services. The strategy will specifically
privilege corporate culture and improved competencies as the driving forces
that may generate improved court performance. Project implementation will
enable us to ascertain whether the focus on corporate culture and improved
competencies as the driving forces of change, and the strategic orientation
and content of those components, are the appropriate levers in improving
court performance.
It is expected that if the hypotheses tested through the proposed LIL
are proven valid, it would be followed by regular investment operations aimed
at replicating the proposed strategy nationwide. The risks associated with
an environment conducive to change would have been significantly minimized in
the case of the following operations since the LIL would have helped
developed a solid pro change constituency and generated a virtuous
demonstration effect for the rest of the court system.
3. Project Description.
The Project will specifically promote a comprehensive organizational
change strategy in 32 participating civil circuit courts and will provide:
(i) technical assistance for developing an organizational culture and
competencies and capabilities aligned with the proposed changes in conflict
resolution services; (ii) technical assistance for the introduction of
changes in the courts' organizational structure, work flows and
administrative processes; (iii) technical assistance and grants to align the
judiciary's performance evaluation and rewards with the proposed
organizational change strategy; (iv) technical assistance, training and
equipment for the development of computerized court management systems; (v)
improvements in court filing systems and physical facilities; and (vi)
monitoring and evaluation systems and improvements in project management
capacity.
4. Project Cost and Financing
The project would be financed by an IBRD loan in the amount of US$5.0 million
that will cover approximately 75t of total project costs. The balance will
be financed by the Central Government through resources assigned in the
Superior Judicial Council's budget.
5. Project Implementation
The SCJ would assume the main responsibility for program
implementation. The SCJ is a corporation established by the 1991
Constitution responsible for the planning, human resource management and
overall management function of the Judicial Branch. In the discharge of its
duties the SCJ is autonomous from the various court systems -the
constitutional, criminal, administrative and civil and social jurisdictions.
The SCJ is governed by an Administrative and a Disciplinary Board composed of
- 2-



six and seven magistrates, respectively. The Administrative Board has
assumed direct responsibility for directing the project
A Project Coordination Unit has been established to advance project
preparation activities. In addition, the PCU has been responsible for the
preparation and pilot advancement of some of the activities envisaged under
this LIL. The PCU will report to the two magistrates appointed by the
Administrative Board. In the discharge of its duties the PCU will: (i)
respond to the demands and initiatives arising from the participating courts
in carrying out the various project components; (ii) ensure an effective
liaison between the participating courts and the SCJ and, particularly,
promote an adequate utilization of the SCJ's installed institutional
capacity; and (iii) ensure compliance with the Bank's requirements in the
areas of procurement, disbursements and financial management.
6. Project Sustainability
The sustainability of the proposed operation is predicated on the
success of the change strategy supported by the LIL, that is: (i) that the
participating civil courts are increasingly recognized within the judiciary
as best practice models in terms of swiftness and quality in rendering
conflict resolution services, high productivity in the use of judicial
resources and increased user satisfaction, as reflected in increased demand
for conflict resolution services; (ii) increased pressure by the public for a
switch of the civil, labor and family jurisdictions to the new judicial
service model; and (iii) increased adherence by the judicial personnel,
including the leadership, to the change initiative.
It is also expected that as a result of this operation the SCJ will
significantly strengthen its institutional capacity to undertake significant
organizational change. The proposed institutional arrangements reducing the
role of the PCU to a merely coordinating function and maximizing reliance in
the SCJ's professional capacity, together with the active role expected from
the departmental sections of the SCJ, should go a long way towards building
the basis for a judicial organization that will introduce within its
abilities the capacity to plan and implement change.
Finally, the fiscal sustainability will be mostly dependent on the
ability of the judiciary to improve quality while seeking productivity
improvements. In the event that improvements in quality would not be
compensated by increases in productivity, it will be up to the fiscal and
judicial authorities and for society as a whole to determine the extent to
which increased investments in justice delivery are warranted because of
their return on social welfare, particularly in a country with the conflict
levels prevalent in Colombia.
7. Poverty Category
The proposed operation is not specifically poverty targeted since its
main objective is to improve the rendering of an essential public service
such as judicial conflict resolution. However, to the extent that an
improved rule of law should specially protect and benefit the poor which are
most affected by violence the operation is intended to impact the poor in a
highly positive manner in the mediium term.
8. Environmental Aspects
Environmental Category    [ ]A    [ ]B     [ X IC
- 3 -



9. Project Benefits
The proposed operation would benefit directly the litigants of the
participant civil circuit courts. It is expected that as a result of the
project, litigants would experience a drastic reduction in the period leading
to judicial adjudication and a more thorough and open discussion of the
controversy with increased involvement and commitment from judges in reaching
a fair and quality resolution of the cases. The project will also benefit the
participating courts who would be transformed into best practice models with
high levels of job satisfaction and morale. Finally, the project will
benefit the judiciary for having tried and proved successful an
organizational change strategy which may improve the judiciary's social
legitimacy and ability to respond effectively to the society's justice needs.
Long term effects are the benefits to the poor who are most affected by the
prevailing violence, the improvements in governance of the Colombian State
derived from the increased legitimacy and independence of the Judiciary and
the contribution towards an improved private sector development environment
derived from improved effectiveness of contract enforcement.
10. Risks
Leadership of judiciary does not establish an environment conducive to
change to enable the GJCs and the 32 participating civil circuit courts to
act boldly in pursuit of the proposed change objectives; does not strongly
and consistently backs the hybrid institutional arrangements proposed for
project implementation or does not approve or effectively enforce changes on
the performance evaluation and incentives system congruent with proposed
organizational changes.Participant judges do not reflect the expected high
levels of professional excellence and personal integrity or there is
insufficient availability of counterpart funds.
11. Contact Point
Felipe Saez
The World Bank
Venezuela Country Office
Edificio Edicampo Piso 9
Caracas, Venezuela
58-212-2679943
-4-



