Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7081-CO
Loan Agreement
(Judicial Conflict Resolution Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 4, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7081-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Superior Council of the Judicature 
(SCJ) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to SCJ, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SCJ (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), with the modification set forth below, constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Page  2
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower (through SCJ, with the assistance of DNP, as such terms are defined 
in the Loan Agreement) shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower’s National 
Planning Department;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Extra-Judicial Stakeholders" means: (i) non-governmental organizations 
and academic institutions involved in legal and judicial reform issues; (ii) bar 
associations; (iii) justice services users; and (iv) mass media;
(e)
"JCT" means any Judicial Change Team (Equipo de Cambio Judicial) 
established by judges and administrative staff of the JCT Courts (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(f)
"JCT Courts" means any civil, family or labor court (juzgado) in the 
cities of Barranquilla, Bogotá, Bucaramanga, Cali and Medellín, as well as in any 
other additional or substitute city that the Bank and SCJ may agree upon from time to 
time pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"JCT Change Management Strategy" means any of the strategies referred to 
in Section 2.07 (c) (i) (A) of the Project Agreement;
(h)
"JCT Performance Indicators" means the output indicators referred to in 
Section 2.07 (c) (i) (B) of the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the Project operational manual referred to in 
Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(j)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 2.06 (a) 
of the Project Agreement;
(k)
"PCU Professional Staff" means the professional staff referred to in 
Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Annual Implementation Plan" means the plan for the 
implementation of the Project referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(o)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SCJ.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such fee shall be payable not 
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement, shall 
cause SCJ to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of SCJ therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable SCJ to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to SCJ under a 
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SCJ, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SCJ 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower (through SCJ) shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower (through SCJ) shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SCJ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SCJ will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SCJ;
(b)
SCJ shall have appointed the PCU Professional Staff; and
(c)
SCJ shall have: (i) hired a financial and procurement agent of experience 
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (ii) adopted the Operational Manual.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SCJ, 
and is legally binding upon SCJ in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and SCJ and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SCJ in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 4, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Page  6
Bogotá, D.C.
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 350-9344
With copies to:
Superior Council of the Judicature
Palacio de Justicia Alfonso Reyes Echandia
Calle 12 No. 7-65
Bogotá, D.C.
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 221-0023
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  7
(1)
Works
   1,750,000
80%
(2)
Goods
     430,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 84%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
   2,400,000
84%
(including audit
fees) and training
(4)
Unallocated
     420,000
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods and services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"training" means the cost of: (i) per diem and travel expenses of 
trainees; (ii) rental of training facilities and equipment; (iii) training materials; 
and (iv) training fees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any expenditure under any of the Categories in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $500,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred after October 1, 
2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: 
(a)
works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent, other than 
the first two contracts referred to in Part C.2 (a) (i) of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement;
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent;
(c)
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent; 
(d)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $30,000 
equivalent; and
(e)
training,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Borrower's central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
Page  8
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
of $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal 
to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
Page  9
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test a participatory and comprehensive 
organizational change strategy for the Borrower's judicial system, which will lead to 
the improvement of the timeliness, quality and productivity of such system so as to: 
(a) contribute to the system’s social legitimacy and ability to respond effectively to 
society’s justice needs; (b) create increased incentives for the resolution of civil, 
family and labor conflicts through peaceful means; and (c) enable a more effective and 
lower cost enforcement of civil and commercial contracts.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
JCT Change Management Strategies
Carrying out of JCT Change Management Strategies comprising any of the following 
activities:
1.
Culture Change
Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of JCT 
Change Management Strategies, including:
(a)
definition of each JCT specific mission and vision, within SJC overall 
mission and vision;
(b)
design of the strategies required to bring about such specific mission 
and vision; and
(c)
selection of the respective JCT Performance Indicators.
2.
Human Resource Competencies and Capabilities
(a)
Improvement of the competencies and capabilities of members of the JCTs 
through the introduction of modern case management techniques in the JCT Courts via 
interactive training modules (comprising workshops and tutoring) on:
(i)
jurisprudence elements supporting the proposed case management 
techniques;
(ii)
statutory and case law framework enabling the introduction of the 
proposed case management techniques; and
(iii)
abilities that would improve the JCT effectiveness in implementing 
the proposed case management techniques.
(b)
Provision of training to judicial staff (other than the members of the 
JCTs) on overall Project-financed initiatives, and proposed technological and 
organizational changes. 
3.
Organizational Structure Changes
Introduction in the JCT Courts of organizational structure changes, including:
(a)
introducing changes in work processes to enable the implementation of 
such case management techniques;
(b)
improving the provision of court expert advise services; and
(c)
unbundling judicial and administrative activities, through the design and 
implementation of specialized court organizational structures.
4.
Information Systems
Installation and operation in JCT Courts of SJC computerized case management system 
tailored in accordance with the Borrower’s procedural regulations and matching the 
organizational structure changes adopted under Part C of the Project, including:
(a)
provision of technical assistance and training to implement such case 
management system in JCT Courts; and
(b)
develop the system’s database through the conversion of existing court 
manual files into electronic files.
5.
Court Facilities
Refurbishment of the facilities of JCT Courts (including the acquisition and 
utilization of the required equipment) to adapt existing JCT Courts’ infrastructure to 
the respective JCT Change Management Strategy, including:
(a)
implementation of SCJ’s modern court filing systems and development of 
complementary systems to improve the handling and organization of case records in a 
manner compatible, inter alia, with hearing-based procedures; and
(b)
adjustments to court layout to allow for, inter alia, hearing rooms and 
administrative service centers.
Page  11
Part B:
Development of an appropriate environment for the JCTs Change Management
Strategies
1.
Communication and participation initiatives
Design and implementation of a communications strategy to promote and 
disseminate JCT Change Management Strategies and Project achievements among judicial 
staff, Extra-Judicial Stakeholders and public opinion.
2.
Performance Evaluation and Rewards
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to SCJ for:
(i)
assessing the objectives and impact of SCJ current judicial staff 
performance evaluation system; and
(ii)
implementing a revised judicial staff performance evaluation 
system for the JCT Courts consistent with the objectives of the 
Project.
(b)
Carrying out of a SCJ pilot program of individual and team incentives to 
reward:
(i)
the attainment of JCT Performance Indicators by JCT members; and
(ii)
the support among judicial staff (other than JCT members) to 
change management initiatives consistent with the objectives of 
the Project.
Part C:
Project Management Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Establishment and operation of the PCU.
2.
Carrying out of Project monitoring and evaluation activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2007
  through February 15, 2018
4.17%
On August 15, 2018
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
Page  12
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
