Page  1
CONFORMED
November
23,
1998
Mr. Jaime Ruiz Llano
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci
ón
Bogotá, Colombia
Ms. Emilia Ruiz de Ramírez
Director General
Agencia Colombiana de
Cooperación Internacional
Bogotá, Colombia
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of a Judicial Reform Project
Grant TF
025605
Dear Mr. Ruiz Llano and Ms. Ruiz de Ramírez:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred forty six thousand and four hundred U.S. dollars 
(US$646,400) (the Grant) to Republic of Colombia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in this Letter Agreement and the Annex hereto.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions. The aforesaid notwithstanding, the Recipient, through its 
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci
ón
 
(DNP) shall establish a committee comprising the Recipient's 
Minister of Justice, President of the Supreme Court and President of the Judiciary Council, or their 
representatives, with whom the Bank will exchange views from time to time for the purposes of ensuring 
appropriate coordination in Project preparation.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Andres Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci
ón
By
: /s/ Jaime Ruiz Llano
Director
Date: January 25, 1999
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional
By: /s/ Emilia Ruiz de Ramirez
Director General
Date: January 25, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of a judicial reform project  (the Project) 
which will have, as main objectives, the introduction of judicial process reforms, alternative dispute 
resolution mechanisms, and modern planning management techniques and the broadening of the access to
Justice for significant sectors of the Recipient's society.  The activities (the Activities) for which the 
Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Strategic planning process
Consultation with major stakeholders, aimed at defining key priorities of the Project and the 
most critical issues affecting justice administration in the territory of the Recipient, and attaining a broad 
consensus on Project design and implementation arrangements, including, but not limited to:
(i)
carrying out a series of participatory events with major stakeholders, such as workshops 
Page  3
and focus groups, and an international conference to review the relevant regional 
experience with judicial reform;
(ii)
preparation of judicial reform strategies, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the participatory events referred to in
(i) above; and
(iii)
issuance and dissemination of publications showing the conclusions and 
recommendations of the participatory activities under
(i) and (ii) above.
(b)
Logical Framework Construction
Determination of Project objectives, activities and results expected, together with the indicators 
for monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation progress, including carrying out of a series of 
participatory events, including workshops, aimed at developing the specific Project components in
 
the
areas of judicial process reform, alternative dispute resolution methods, access to justice and 
improvements in judicial planning and management.
(c)
Detailed Preparation of the Project
Preparation of the main components of the Project, and of the required institutional and 
administrative basis, including:
(i)
development of detailed Project component proposals which are strategically, technically 
and institutionally consistent with the logical framework to be constructed under (b) 
above;
(ii)
carrying out of a series of participatory events, including workshops, on the technical, 
institutional and processing aspects of the various Project components;
(iii)
design of the operational and administrative arrangements for Project implementation;
(iv)
carrying out of short study tours for representatives of key stakeholders, aimed at 
learning from relevant judicial experiences in foreign countries;
(v)
development and implementation of a communications strategy (including publications 
and videos) through the various regional judicial offices in the territory of the Recipient, 
to outreach the greatest possible number of stakeholders in the reform process so as to 
ensure their participation in, and their commitment to, the Project; and
(vi)
carrying out of a series of participatory events, including workshops and focus groups 
aimed at presenting and discussing the proposed Project with representatives of 
stakeholders.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants' services required for the Activities and all aspects 
of organization and carrying out of participatory events and tour studies.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient, through its 
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperaci
ón Internacional
,
shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
Page  4
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall, through DNP,  indemnify the Bank against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities 
except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30, 1999.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to 
the Bank's applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall, through DNP, be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the consultants or any of the consultants' personnel (other than nationals 
or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may, through DNP, at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, 
after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the 
Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank's assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
