Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7081-CO
Project Agreement
(Judicial Conflict Resolution Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SUPERIOR COUNCIL OF THE JUDICATURE
Dated December 4 , 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7081-CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SUPERIOR COUNCIL OF THE JUDICATURE (SCJ).
WHEREAS (A) by the loan agreement (the Loan Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SCJ 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SCJ 
(the Subsidiary Agreement), the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to SCJ on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS SCJ, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"JCT Advisory Board" means any of the advisory boards referred to in 
Section 2.07 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(b)
"JCT Annual Implementation Plan" means any of the JCT annual 
implementation plans referred to in Section 2.07 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(c)
"JCT Performance Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to any JCT Performance Agreement;
(d)
 "JCTs Guidelines" means SCJ guidelines for the preparation and 
implementation of JCT Change Management Strategies set forth in the letter from SCJ to 
the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1); and
(e)
 "Project Performance Indicators" means the Project performance 
indicators set forth in the letter of even date herewith from SCJ to the Bank 
(Supplemental Letter No. 2).
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  SCJ declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial, administrative, organizational and financial practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  (a)  SCJ shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the obligation set forth in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions 
(relating to reports) shall be carried out by SCJ with the assistance of DNP.
Section 2.04.  SCJ shall duly exercise all its rights and perform all its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
SCJ shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating, waiving or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05.  (a) SCJ shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SCJ shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
Page  3
purposes of Loan, or the performance by SCJ of any of its obligations under this 
Agreement and/or under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06.  (a) At all times during the execution of the Project, SCJ shall 
maintain a Project coordination unit with structure and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, including the responsibility to: 
(i)
support the implementation of JCT Change Management Strategies, 
and conduct related monitoring and evaluation;
(ii)
ensure effective liaison between JCTs and the Administrative 
Chamber of SCJ, so as to promote adequate utilization of SCJ’s 
installed capacity; 
(iii)
comply with the Bank’s financial management and procurement 
requirements; and 
(iv)
prepare each Project Annual Implementation Plan and the reports 
referred to in Section 2.12 (c) of this Agreement.
(b)
SCJ shall ensure that PCU is staffed, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, by professional staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory 
to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, selected in 
accordance with the procedures prescribed in the Operational Manual.
Section 2.07.  (a) SCJ shall enter into performance agreements with each JCT, 
under terms and conditions consistent with the JCTs Guidelines: 
(i)
with the Bogotá JCT, not later that November 30, 2001; and
(ii)
with such other JCT as shall be provided in an Annual 
Implementation Plan.
(b)
Promptly after the signing of each JCT Performance Agreement, SCJ shall 
furnish to the Bank a copy of such Agreement, together with such other information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the JCT 
Performance Agreement is not consistent with the JCTs Guidelines, promptly inform SCJ 
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)
Pursuant to each JCT Performance Agreement, each JCT shall:
(i)
furnish to SCJ, for its review and approval, an annual 
implementation plan for the following calendar year, such plan to 
specify: 
(A)
the change management strategy for each such JCT to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during such 
calendar year; and 
(B)
specific performance indicators for the implementation of 
the JCT Change Management Strategy, including, inter alia, 
reduction in process time for case disposition, and number 
of cases disposed per judge per year, such indicators to be 
based on SCJ standard performance indicators for courts 
other than the JCT Courts; and
(ii)
establish an advisory board, comprising representatives of 
Extra-Judicial Stakeholders, that shall participate in: 
(A)
the preparation of proposals for the respective JCT Change 
Management Strategy, and the determination of the role and 
responsibilities of the Extra-Judicial Stakeholders in the 
Page  4
implementation of such JCT Change Management Strategy; and 
(B)
the evaluation of implementation of the respective JCT 
Change Management Strategy and the achievement of the 
respective JCT Performance Indicators.
Section 2.08.  (a) SCJ shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide regulations for 
the coordination of Project implementation, including:
(i)
appropriate administrative arrangements, including the structure 
and responsibilities of the PCU and its relations with other 
offices of SCJ and JCTs;
(ii)
detailed financial management arrangements, including 
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures; and
(iii)
specific procurement responsibilities, processes and internal 
controls.
(b)
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Section 2.09.  (a) SJC shall:
(i)
not later than December 15 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, a Project annual implementation plan for 
the following calendar year, including JCT Annual Implementation 
Plans, such plan to specify: (A) the activities to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during such calendar year; and (B) the 
required financial and human resources; and
(ii) 
upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Implementation 
Plan in accordance with its terms.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Bank shall not 
be required to finance any investment in respect of a JCT Change Management Strategy 
(other than investments in respect of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project), if the Bank 
shall have determined at any time that the respective JCT Performance Agreement is not 
consistent with the JCTs Guidelines pursuant to Section 2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.10. With regard to Part B.2 of the Project, SCJ shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 2002, retain the services of independent 
consultants of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, operating under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of carrying out the 
assessment provided under Part B.2 (a) (i) of the Project and prepare proposals for 
the implementation of Part B.2 (b) of the Project; 
(b)
not later than June 30, 2002, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, the findings and recommendations of the report of the consultants referred 
to in paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
not later that December 31, 2002, introduce adjustments to its current 
judicial staff performance evaluation system for the JCT Courts in accordance with the 
findings and recommendations of the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
and the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 2.11. Not later than March 31, 2002, SCJ shall appoint the independent 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
Section 2.12. SCJ shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project Performance Indicators, 
Page  5
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than June 30 of each year of Project implementation, conduct an 
assessment of the progress in the implementation of each JCT Change Management 
Strategy and in the achievement of the respective JCT Performance Indicators, such 
assessments to be conducted with the assistance of independent consultants of 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP), for its review and comments, on or about 
August 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, commencing on August 31, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(d)
review with the Borrower (through DNP) and the Bank by September 30 of 
each year during the execution of the Project, commencing on September 30, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish, the assessment and reports referred to in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section; 
(e)
not later than October 31 of each year of Project implementation, discuss 
the results of each assessment referred to in paragraph (b) above with representatives 
of each JCT and the respective JCT Advisory Board, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon; and
(f)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (d) and (e) above and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.13.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, SCJ shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and SCJ, a plan designed to ensure 
the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with SCJ on 
said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SCJ
Section 3.01. SCJ shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound managerial, administrative, organizational and financial 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SCJ shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound managerial, administrative, 
organizational and financial practices.
Section 3.03.  SCJ shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) SCJ shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
SCJ shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, SCJ shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable SCJ, not later than July 1, 2002, or such later date 
as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said 
report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the SCJ shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SCJ 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SCJ thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SCJ:
Superior Council of the Judicature
Palacio de Justicia Alfonso Reyes Echandia
Calle 12 No. 7-65
Bogotá, D.C.
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 221-0023
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SCJ may be 
taken or executed by its Director Ejecutivo or such other person or persons as such 
Director Ejecutivo shall designate in writing, and SCJ shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  8
the District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SUPERIOR COUNCIL OF THE JUDICATURE
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I and III of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $800,000 equivalent; and
(b)
goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $500,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,250,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  9
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) the first two contracts for works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 (a) above; and (b) each 
contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part B.1 (b) above estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for training under Part B of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for change management and organizational structure change under Parts A 
and C of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
Page  10
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and not exceeding in the aggregate $460,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent, the terms of reference and short list 
of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent, the terms of reference 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provision of this Schedule or the Guidelines, 
the following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized form for the 
Project, shall be used in the procurement under such Part B.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule; 
2.
all bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference shall be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes.  Bidders shall be allowed to submit 
their bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services.  There 
Page  11
shall not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's 
registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in 
Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless 
and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract;
3.
bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish.  Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents;
4.
each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid.  Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents.  If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents.  For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors; and
5.
the provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization.  Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder.  Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
