Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7328-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Environment 
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7328-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2005, between UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower) represented by its signatory on page 10 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated September 30, 2002 (Loan No. 7136-ME), the Bank provided 
assistance to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of 
actions, objectives and policies to support appropriate environmental management across 
a
multitude of sectors of the Borrower’s economy (the Program), as such program was 
described in a letter, dated May 26, 2002, from the Borrower (represented by its 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
 -
SEMARNAT) to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated May 27, 2005, from the Borrower 
(represented by SEMARNAT): (i) describing the Program as revised since the date of the 
letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under the first 
phase referred to in (A) above, actions taken as described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower 
intends to take and adopt in the future; (ii) declaring th
e
Borrower’s commitment to the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Second Phase of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by 
making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
Page  3
-
2
-
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ ” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account 
such currencies as shall be required to meet payments to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these 
General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “BANSEFI” 
means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros
,
S.N.C.,
 
Institución de Banca de Desarrollo
,
a
Mexican development bank serving as the 
Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Clean Development Mechanism Office” means an office, ministry, or 
other official entity created in support of  the Clean Development Mechanism (as 
hereinafter defined)  to review and give national approval to projects under said 
mechanism; 
 
(c) 
“Clean Development Mechanism” means a procedure under which 
developed countries may finance greenhouse-gas emissions-avoiding projects in 
developing countries in order to receive credits for doing so which they may apply 
towards meeting mandatory limits on their own emissions; 
 
(d) “CNA” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Agua
,
the Borrower’s National 
Water Commission; 
 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
 
(g) “
Licencia Ambiental Unica
”
means a license necessary for the operation 
of industrial facilities in the Borrower’s territory, issued by SEMARNAT, covering the 
following aspects:  (i) atmospheric emissions; (ii) solid waste production; (iii) toxic waste 
production and treatment; and (iv) wastewater discharges; 
 
(h) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; and 
 
(i) “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
million five hundred ten thousand Dollars ($200,510,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of two hundred million 
eight thousand seven hundred twenty-five Dollars ($200,008,725) from the Loan Account 
in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.08.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the tenth (10th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty ninth (29th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each installment 
except for the last one shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of said Disbursed Amount.  
The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after December 15, 2020, the Borrower shall 
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
Section 2.09.  (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Section 2.10.  The 
Director General de BANSEFI, the Director General Adjunto 
de Finanzas de BANSEFI
,
and any person or persons whom either shall designate in 
writing are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through BANSEFI, 
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through BANSEFI, shall promptly furnish to the Bank 
such information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract 
(
Contrato de Mandato
)
with BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
BANSEFI agrees to 
represent the Borrower 
vis-
à-vis
 the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees to maintain and 
Page  8
-
7
-
operate the Deposit Account in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP, the Borrower shall 
cooperate fully with BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able 
to comply with all of BANSEFI
’s obligations referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that  the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the 
parties thereto. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI 
counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato 
has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with 
the Contrato de Mandato
’s  terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date December 22, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Titular 
de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of
SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-9158-1156 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Fr
ancisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Second Phase of the Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower (through its Secretariat of Tourism) has established a set of 
indicators and benchmarks to measure good environmental performance of tourist 
facilities and destinations. 
 
2. 
The Borrower (through its Secretariat of Energy) has approved, pursuant to a 
letter dated May 16, 2005, from the Deputy Secretary of the Secretariat of Energy, the 
design of a national fund for renewable energy promotion. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has established, pursuant to 
Acuerdo Presidencial
 (Presidential 
Accord) published in the 
Diario Oficial
 on January 23, 2004, and begun operation of, a 
Clean Development Mechanism Office operating in accordance with guidelines and 
procedures established by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC). 
 
4. 
The Borrower (through CNA) has taken the following actions: it has made 
publicly available through its website (
www.cna.gob.mx
)
water availability data and a 
national water rights registry towards the implementation of an improved functioning 
water rights market. 
 
5. 
The Borrower (through SEMARNAT) has started decentralization of 
environmental management functions in several of its States, as evidenced by: (a) 
capacity building agreements in ten states; and (b) the following signed agreements with 
the following States: (i) Tamaulipas, Nuevo Le
ón
and Coahuila for the decentralization 
wildlife management functions; (ii) Estado de México for the decentralization of forestry 
management functions; and (iii) Chihuahua and Guanajuato for the decentralization of 
the 
Licencia Ambiental Unica
.
Page  15
-
14
-
wb77786 
M:\MEXICO\942-Second Environmental DPL\Second Environmental DPL(negotiated)  LA.doc 
08/04/2005 4:30:00 PM
 
