Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1609 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Environmental Development Policy Loan II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General energy sector (25%); Forestry (25%); Sub-national 
government administration (25%); General water, sanitation and 
flood protection sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P079748 
Borrower(s) 
SHCP 
Implementing Agency 
SEMARNAT/SENER/SECTUR/SHCP/CNA/CONAFOR 
Date PID Prepared 
May 7, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 30, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Economic growth is crucial to reduce poverty. Mexico continues to face challenges with respect to 
disassociating environmental degradation from economic growth. Activities in key sectors of the 
economy are linked to environmental degradation and overexploitation of natural resources. For 
example, in the tourism sector, which accounts for almost 9 percent
 of
the country’s Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP), tourism developments unmatched with adequate planning and investments to manage 
waste products generated by tourist and local populations contribute to deterioration of environmental 
quality. Similarly, energy sector activities generate significant amounts of air emissions, wastewater 
discharges, solid and hazardous wastes and other precursors of environmental degradation. 
Unsustainable practices in management of forestry resources pose a great hindrance to the 
competitiveness of the sector. In the water sector, inefficient water use and contamination result in 
serious problems of inadequate water quantity and quality respectively. Coupled with these challenges, 
inefficiencies in environmental management processes limit the effectiveness of environmental 
management in Mexico. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The main objective of the ENVDPL program since its inception in 2002 has been to support the 
government’s efforts to (i) mainstream environmental concerns in the development agenda of key 
sectors, and (ii) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of local environmental management processes 
in Mexico. The first operation, ENVSAL I supported initial actions including the setting of medium-
term targets to mainstream environmental concerns in key sectors and creation of a favorable 
institutional conditions for the implementation of reforms. The proposed second operation, ENVDPL II 
will support the development of legal and regulatory frameworks and the continuation of government of 
Mexico’s (GOM’s) efforts to consolidate and deepen the impact of reforms through implementation.  
 
The prior actions completed by GOM as triggers for the proposed operation include: (i) establishment 
and implementation of a set of indicators and benchmarks for measurement of good environmental 
performance of tourist facilities; (ii) approval of the design and preparation for implementation of a 
Green Fund for renewable energy promotion; (iii) establishment and start of implementation of a Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) office, involving SENER and SEMARNAT, according to rules set up 
at the Marrakech and Bonn Conferences of the Parties of the UNFCCC; (iv) publication of water 
Page  2
availability data, and improved water rights registry as foundational steps in the implementation of a 
functioning water rights market, consistent with current regulatory framework; and (v) completion of 
decentralization of wildlife permit issuance functions to three states and forestry permit issuance 
functions to one state; and beginning of decentralization in over ten states based on environmental 
performance agreements with SEMARNAT,  
 
In addition, the proposed operation supports among others, the following key actions that have been 
completed by GOM: (i) the development of fourteen action plans in key tourist destinations in 
accordance with the Agenda 21 Program for Sustainable Tourism; (ii) evaluation of programs to 
improve the quality of transport fuels, and establishment of incentives to promote energy efficiency and 
renewable energy; (iii) the enactment of a new legal framework for the forestry sector; (iv) the 
amendment of the legal framework for the water sector; and (v) reforms that foster streamlining of 
administrative procedures in the environment sector and further implementation of the Law on 
Transparency which has allowed EIA and other environmental management processes to be open to 
public scrutiny.
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The government of Mexico (GOM) has embarked on an extensive reform program
1
aimed to enhance 
the country’s competitiveness and stimulate economic growth. At the core of this program, the GOM 
acknowledges significant potential linkages between environment, competitiveness, and economic 
growth. These potential linkages are evident in (i) the opportunity to employ Mexico’s richly endowed 
natural environment as a competitive advantage to meet the demands of more selective and lucrative 
markets; and (ii) the need for governmental interventions to address the market failures related to the 
negative impacts of environmental degradation on human health, productivity, and competitiveness. In 
recognition of these important linkages, GOM is giving high priority to achieving economic 
development that is balanced with protection of the environment and natural resources. The proposed 
loan is the second in a series of three quick-disbursing loans in a program aimed at supporting GOM’s 
efforts to achieve sustainable development in key productive sectors of the economy. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
201.1 
 Total 
201.1 
 
The proposed US$201.1 million ENVDPL II is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche upon loan 
effectiveness. The subsequent operation will be based on the pace of the GOM to implement its 
program. Future amounts will be subject to the depth of the reforms. Under Mexico’s fiscal regime, a 
Development Policy Loan from the World Bank substitutes financing from alternative, more expensive 
debt sources. The proposed loan does not increase aggregate fiscal resources available to environment 
and other sectoral agencies since the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary fiscal surplus 
targets.  
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
1
Presidencia de la Republica. 
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2001-2006
.
Mexico City: Gobierno de los Estados Unidos 
Mexicanos. 2001. 
Page  3
Each one of the sectoral ministries and agencies involved in this operation (
Secretaría de Hacienda y 
Crédito Publico
,
SHCP; 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
,
SEMARNAT; 
Secretaría 
de Energía
,
SENER; 
Secretaría
 
de
Turismo
,
SECTUR; 
Comisión Nacional Forestal
,
CONAFOR and 
Comisión Nacional de Agua
,
CNA) will be responsible for implementation of the proposed components 
of the operation and for reporting progress. The Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat 
(SEMARNAT) will be responsible for coordinating actions among other concerned agencies, such as 
CNA, CONAFOR, SHCP, SENER, and SECTUR. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Several benefits are envisaged that will result from the activities and actions that will be supported by 
the proposed loan in different sectors. In the 
tourism
 sector, implementation of cooperative approaches 
involving public entities, private sector and other community stakeholders for joint action in addressing 
environmental problems helps to improve environmental conditions at tourist sites. Actions supported in 
the 
energy
 sector contribute to reducing local air pollution and improving mechanisms for climate 
change mitigation. In the 
forestry
 sector, a new legal and regulatory framework fosters sustainable 
forestry management practices. Actions in the 
water
 program promote decentralization of water 
management responsibilities to river basin agencies to improve the allocation of water resources and 
enhance programs for water pollution control. Actions to improve 
environmental management
 
strengthen the capacity of environment authorities to foster accountability and transparency and to 
mitigate potential negative impacts of investment projects. Increased public participation in decision-
making and transparency in environmental management processes help ensure that the needs of 
vulnerable persons are taken into account in decision-making on environmental issues which affect 
them. 
 
The proposed operation faces a number of potential macroeconomic, political, social and institutional 
risks. Macroeconomic risks are associated with effects on the Mexican economy of a sharper slowdown 
of the US (and global) economy, a stronger than expected tightening of monetary policy conditions, and 
a
high volatility of oil prices. Recent experience shows that such a slowdown will take its toll most 
likely in terms of Mexican economic growth rather than price stability or access to external financing. A 
sharper monetary tightening by the US monetary authorities will lead to an increase not only of interest 
rates on external financing requirements but more importantly of domestic interest rates. However, 
Mexico has made important progress to reduce its vulnerability to adverse shocks and to enhance its 
ability to absorb such shocks. 
 
Political risks are associated with the Mexican presidential election scheduled to take place in 2006. 
Changes within the cabinet prior to the election, as well as change of administration in December 2006, 
may result in a loss of momentum to complete the reforms supported by this program. This risk is 
mitigated by the following factors: the legal and regulatory framework established under ENVDPL II 
through the enactment of laws and regulations provides a basis to ensure the continuity of the policies; 
and the design of the program, which anchors the formulation of sector environmental strategies on 
consensus-building among different stakeholders further strengthens the basis for continuity of policies. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  4
In general terms, improvements in environmental sustainability benefit the poor. The Bank’s recent 
assessment of poverty in Mexico
2
points out the adverse effect environmental degradation has on the 
poor, particularly in terms of health. Water and air pollution result in ill health, especially of the poor; 
and soil degradation and unsustainable agricultural and forestry practices adversely affect livelihoods, as 
well as increase the vulnerability of the poor to natural disasters. Therefore, it is expected that the poor 
will benefit from the proposed operation in the form of enhanced environmental and health conditions 
that improve their potential opportunities for more productive workdays and a better life. Those 
vulnerable population segments that depend on natural resources for their livelihoods, such as 
indigenous peoples and 
ejido
 communities, would benefit also through the promotion of sustainable 
environmental management practices. However, these positive impacts on poverty and social 
development vary according to the specific set of actions promoted by each of the policies supported by 
the proposed operation, and have different effects on different stakeholders. 
 
The 
raison d’être
 of the operation is to support policy reforms and actions that embody the principle of 
environmental sustainability by promoting economic development that is not derived at the expense of 
the environment and natural resource base. In other words, economic development that is balanced with 
protection and improvement of the quality of the environment and natural resources. The operation 
seeks to achieve this dual objective through the incorporation of environmental considerations in key 
productive sectors of the economy, and by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local 
environmental management processes. Consequently, it is not expected that the proposed operation will 
have adverse effects on the country’s environment or natural resources. On the contrary, the operation 
and indeed the program offer significant opportunities to positively affect the environment and natural 
resources of Mexico. The operation is based on a solid foundation of analytical work, and supports the 
development of tools and studies; and strengthening of institutional mechanisms that will be useful for 
consolidating positive environmental effects of activities supported by the operation and for anticipating 
any negative environmental effects and outlining measures to address them in an upstream manner.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Ernesto Sanchez-Triana 
Title: Sr Environmental Engr. 
Tel: (202) 473-6952 
Fax:  
Email: esancheztriana@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
2
Poverty in Mexico: An Assessment of Conditions, Trends and Government Strategy.
 Washington, DC: The World Bank. 
June 2004. 
Page  5
