Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1562 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Environment Development Policy Loan II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General energy sector (25%);Forestry (25%);Sub-national 
government administration (25%);General water, sanitation and 
flood protection sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P079748 
Borrower(s) 
SHCP 
Implementing Agency 
SEMARNAT/SENER/SECTUR/SHCP/CNA/CONAFOR 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 16, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 30, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Economic growth is crucial to reduce poverty. Mexico continues to face challenges with respect to 
disassociating environmental degradation from economic growth. Activities in key sectors of the 
economy are linked to environmental degradation and overexploitation of natural resources. For 
example, in the tourism sector
,
which accounts for almost 9% of the country’s Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP), tourism developments unmatched with adequate planning and investments to manage waste 
products generated by tourist and local populations contribute to deterioration of environmental quality. 
Similarly, energy sector activities generate significant amounts of air emissions, wastewater discharges, 
solid and hazardous wastes and other precursors of environmental degradation. Unsustainable practices 
in management of forestry resources pose a great hindrance to the competitiveness of the sector. In the 
water sector, inefficient water use and contamination result in serious problems of inadequate water 
quantity and quality respectively. Coupled with these challenges, inefficiencies in environmental 
management processes contribute to limiting the effectiveness of environmental management in Mexico. 
 
The Government of Mexico (GOM) has embarked on an extensive reform program
1
aimed to enhance 
the country’s competitiveness and stimulate economic growth. At the core of this program, the GOM 
acknowledges significant potential linkages between environment, competitiveness, and economic 
growth. These potential linkages are evident in (i) the opportunity to employ Mexico’s richly endowed 
natural environment as a competitive advantage to meet the demands of more selective and lucrative 
markets; and (ii) the need for governmental interventions to address the market failures related to the 
negative impacts of environmental degradation on human health, productivity, and competitiveness. In 
recognition of these important linkages, GOM is giving high priority to achieving economic 
development that is balanced with protection of the environment and natural resources. The proposed 
loan is the second in a series of three quick-disbursing loans in a program aimed at supporting GOM’s 
efforts to achieve sustainable development in key productive sectors of the economy. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
1
Presidencia de la Republica. 
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2001-2006
.
Mexico City: Gobierno de los Estados Unidos 
Mexicanos. 2001. 
Page  2
The main objective of the ENVDPL program since its inception in 2002 has been to support the 
Government’s efforts to (i) mainstream environmental concerns in the development agenda of key 
sectors, and (ii) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of local environmental management processes 
in Mexico. The first operation, ENVSAL I supported initial actions including the setting of medium-
term targets to mainstream environmental concerns in key sectors and creation of a favorable 
institutional conditions for the implementation of reforms. The proposed second operation, ENVDPL II 
will support the development of legal and regulatory frameworks and the continuation of GOM’s efforts 
to consolidate and deepen the impact of reforms through implementation. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation focuses on four key productive sectors of the economy namely, tourism, 
forestry, energy and water and on environmental management. ENVDPL II focuses on advancing the 
reform efforts that were initiated under the first operation. Key actions supported by the operation 
include among others: (i) implementation of a new legal framework for the water sector; (ii) 
development of ten action plans in key tourist destinations to implement local Agenda 21 Programs for 
Sustainable Tourism and the development of a public policy to mitigate environmental impacts 
associated with cruise ships; (iv) improvement of fuel quality by reducing the sulfur content in premium 
gasoline used in Mexico City Metropolitan Area from 1,000 to 300 ppm and the establishment of a 
Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Office in 2004; and (v) streamlining of administrative 
procedures in the environment sector and continued implementation of the Law on Transparency, which 
has allowed EIA and other environmental management processes to be opened up to public scrutiny. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The provisions of OP8.60 on Development Policy Lending apply to the proposed operation since it is a 
Development Policy Loan (DPL). The 
raison d’être
 of
the operation is to support policy reforms and 
actions that embody the principle of environmental sustainability by promoting economic development 
that is not derived at the expense of the environment and natural resource base. In other words, 
economic development that is balanced with protection and improvement of the quality of the 
environment and natural resources. The operation seeks to achieve this dual objective through the 
incorporation of environmental considerations in key productive sectors of the economy 
–
tourism, 
energy, forestry and water - and by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental 
management processes. Consequently, it is not expected that the proposed operation will have adverse 
effects on the country’s environment or natural resources. On the contrary, the operation and indeed the 
program offer significant opportunities to positively affect the environment and natural resources of 
Mexico. Furthermore, the proposed operation will support the development of strategic studies and tools 
including Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs) to anticipate potential negative effects of 
sectoral activities and to outline measures to address them in an upstream manner. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
201.01 
 Total 
201.01 
 
The proposed US$201.01 million ENVDPL II is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche upon loan 
effectiveness. The subsequent operation will be based on the pace of the GOM to implement its 
program. Future amounts will be subject to the depth of the reforms. 
Page  3
The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector spending. Under Mexic
o’s 
fiscal policy, a Development Policy Loan from the Bank substitutes existing sectoral budgetary 
allocations. The proposed loan does not increase aggregate fiscal resources available to environment and 
other sectoral agencies.  
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ernesto Sanchez-Triana 
Title: Sr Environmental Engr. 
Tel: (202) 473-6952 
Fax: (202) 676 9373 
Email: 
esancheztriana@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be included in 
the final project. 
 
