Report No. PIC1706
Project Name                   Indonesia-Second Sulawesi Urban...
Development Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Urban Development
Project ID                     IDPA36053
Borrower                       Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Public Works
Jl. Pattimura 20
Jakarta, Indonesia
Telephone: 62.739-5588
Fax: 62. 739-2563
Date This PID Prepared         November 22, 1996
Date of Last PID               June 1995
Appraisal Date                 June/July 1995
Board Date                     November 21, 1996
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Indonesia's urban population
exceeds 55 million and is growing at over 5t per year, more than twice
the overall national population growth rate.   About 80 million, or 40t
of Indonesians will live in cities by the year 2000. Average incomes in
urban areas have risen substantially over the past decade; however
income distribution remains relatively unequal and in 1990, over 17; of
urban dwellers were estimated to live in "absolute" poverty based on
their expenditure levels. The problems surrounding low incomes are
exacerbated by deficiencies in basic services and degraded environmental
conditions.  Country-wide, only about W of urban households have direct
access to piped water supply.   Another 15t buy drinking water from
vendors or standposts, and the rest rely on shallow wells and sometimes
on surface water courses. Surface water courses in urban areas are
usually polluted due to inadequately treated wastewater.    Only about 40t
of urban households have access to adequate sanitation facilities. In
the larger cities, inadequate industrial water supply and liquid and
solid waste disposal are serious problems. To meet the Government of
Indonesia's (GOI) service and equity objectives, more investment is
needed in local or tertiary systems in poorly served urban areas.
Furthermore, a substantial backlog prevails in the maintenance of
facilities resulting in decreased productivity of the infrastructure.
2.   The Sulawesi/Irian Jaya Urban Development Project (Ln. 3340-IND),
approved in June 1991, was the first effort to provide urban
infrastructure and local services delivery program in nine major urban
areas of the four provinces of Sulawesi. It reflects the six key
priority areas of GOI's Urban Policy Statement and related action plan.
The six themes are: (a) decentralizing urban services delivery to local
governments; (b) preparing and implementing local urban improvement
programs within the framework of GOI's Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Program (IUIDP); (c) developing local government



institutional capacities to manage and sustain urban services delivery;
(d) strengthening local governments' capacity to mobilize resources; (e)
improving the framework for financing urban infrastructure; and (f)
rationalizing the procedures for coordination and consultation among the
agencies involved. The ongoing operation is being implemented
satisfactorily. Completion is scheduled for June 1997 and the loan of
US$100 million should be fully disbursed. The Second Sulawesi Urban
Development Project was requested by GOI as an extension and expansion
of the ongoing project.
3.   Project Objectives. The medium-term objectives of the project are
(i) to improve urban infrastructure service delivery, and (ii) to
develop the necessary financial and institutional capacity in local
governments to sustain urban services. The more specific operational
objectives of the project include:
to improve the provision of urban services by financing appropriate
economic investments in physical infrastructure (roads, water
supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste management, markets, and
transport terminals);
to strengthen operations and maintenance activities for urban
services, and support improved planning, programming, budgeting,
financial management, and local revenue generation by local
governments; and
to improve urban environmental management and reduce local
environmental impacts.
4.   Project Description.   The Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
expands on the ongoing Sulawesi/Irian Jaya Urban Development Project.
The Project will help through a programmatic approach to reduce the
backlog of urban infrastructure investments by providing assistance to
a total of 40 local governments and their water enterprises in Sulawesi.
The project has two components:
sub-project investments in urban planning, housing, water supply,
human waste/sanitation, drainage and flood control, urban roads,
solid waste management, neighborhood and market improvement
programs, and markets and transport terminals, including
engineering services for detailed design and supervision; and
local government development through implementation support, to
improve municipal management, local financial management and
revenue generation, and to strengthen partnerships between local
governments and the private sector and general community.
5.   Project Financing.   The Bank's Loan is for US$155 million
equivalent and covers civil works, goods, and consultant services. Of
that amount, up to US$31 million equivalent will be onlent by the
central government to the participating local governments and their
water enterprises. The central government will contribute US$41.8
million equivalent, the provincial governments will contribute US$17.2
million equivalent, and the local governments, US$102.6 million
equivalent for a total project cost of approximately US$341.2 million.
6.   Project Implementation.   The four provinces of Sulawesi have been
-2 -



designated as the principal implementing agency for the project. For
central GOI operational and technical coordination, and oversight, the
Directorate General for Human Settlements (Cipta Karya or DGCK) of the
Ministry of Public Works has been assigned the role of executing agency,
with the inter-ministerial coordination team for urban development
(TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS (National Planning Agency) providing policy
guidance and sectoral oversight. Local governments participating in the
project will have primary responsibility for implementing and monitoring
all project-related activities in their jurisdiction. As these
decentralized leadership arrangements have not been previously
attempted, all parties have agreed to prepare a Provincial Program
Implementation Memorandum (PPIM) which will document the respective
roles, responsibilities and procedures for project implementation. This
will take the form of a memorandum of understanding to be signed by the
Director General of Cipta Karya and the Governors of the four provinces.
Annual Program Implementation Plans (APIPs) will be drawn up between the
respective provinces, the participating local governments and their
water enterprises to confirm the essential understandings and
commitments.
7.   Project Sustainability.   The project design and implementation
arrangements involve the local governments in all phases of project
preparation through the IUIDP process. The promotion of ownership
through financial contributions from the municipalities and the water
enterprises, more participation in implementation by the project
beneficiaries, and increased local resources for increased levels of O&M
will all contribute to project sustainability.
8.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The
Bank has financed 13 completed and 10 ongoing urban and water supply
projects in Indonesia since 1974, for more than 60 local governments and
many of their water enterprises. Bank experience confirms that: (a)
limited planning and implementation capacity at the central government
level and the difficulties inherent in providing essentially local
services by central government departments together reduce the
efficiency of mass delivery programs; (b) capacity building at the local
level is a long-term process that needs to be accompanied by structural
and institutional strengthening to achieve an increase in local
responsibility and accountability; and (c) to develop such
responsibility and accountability, central-local financial relations
need to provide more local government autonomy and enable private sector
involvement. A study carried out by the Operations Evaluation
Department in September 1995 entitled, 'Indonesia: Impact Evaluation
Report, Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia - The Legacy of
Kampung Improvement Program' (Report no. 14747-IND) concluded that under
conditions of rapid economic development, targeted urban sector
improvement programs can have a very positive impact on low-income
areas, and that those impacts can be achieved at a low cost of
investment that reaps high economic rates of return. The project design
takes into account these lessons.
9.   Poverty Category.   This project is considered as part of the
program of targeted interventions because it targets the four provinces
of Sulawesi which have a higher incidence of poverty than the nation-
wide average. The project's water supply and sanitation sub-projects
-3 -



will benefit the poor the most because it is they who do not have access
to clean, affordable water and waste disposal facilities. The urban
neighborhood and market improvement programs provide basic
infrastructure services that will improve the standard of living of the
urban poor.
10. Environmental Aspects. The project has been classified as
environmental category 'B' under the Bank's procedures, as the negative
impacts are expected to be minor. A regional environmental assessment
was prepared to identify the main environmental problems, many of which
are common to most project towns. Works under the urban roads
subcomponent would relieve congestion, resulting in reductions in air
and noise pollution. The water supply component will improve the
availability of clean drinking water. Under the solid waste management
subcomponent, solid waste dumping and accumulation will be reduced and
disposal areas will be developed as controlled dump sites. Treatment
facilities will minimize leachate and runoff. The sanitation
subcomponent will improve the urban environment with adequate wastewater
and sludge treatment facilities resulting in reduced health risks from
contaminated water. Improvements of drainage canals will help control
flooding and lessen the potential for unsanitary pools of water where
mosquitoes might breed.
11. Social Aspects. As this project involves a programmatic approach,
a general approach to resettlement practices has been developed. The
preparation process for the proposed project has included efforts both
to avoid or minimize land and resettlement needed for the subprojects
and only one proposed sub-project requires a full Resettlement Action
Plan. Draft Governors' Decrees issuing Resettlement Guidelines and
implementation instructions, and a sample local government decree for
preparation of subproject Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) in accordance
with the Guidelines were prepared as a condition of Board Presentation
by the four provincial governments of Sulawesi based on the 'model'
prepared by East Java Province.
12. Program Objective Categories. The project relates to three of the
Bank's program objectives categories: environmentally sustainable
development (50%); poverty reduction and human resource development
(30%); and private sector development (20%). The infrastructure
investments, to be executed under the first component will be subject to
environmental screening for potential impacts to allow for
environmentally sustainable development. The provision of water,
sanitation and drainage infrastructure and the kampung improvement
components will help alleviate poverty. The implementation support
component will develop human resource potential. The partnership
building component will promote private sector participation
opportunities that have been identified in each local government program
and will be stimulated during program implementation.
13. Benefits. The main benefits of the water supply subcomponent are
increased availability of clean, piped water at reduced costs. The
benefits of the urban roads subcomponent are improved accessibility,
savings in vehicle operating costs and increased land and property
values. The benefits of the drainage/flood control subcomponent are
- 4 -



reduced flood damage, traffic disruption, increased land values and
improved health. For the solid waste management subcomponent, the
benefits arising are cleaner air and water and more efficient collection
and treatment of waste. The benefits of the sanitation and sewerage
subcomponent are improved health and avoided ground water contamination.
The benefits of the KIP/MIIP subcomponent are increased standards of
living for residents.
14. Risks. The proposed project design acknowledges that substantial
risks are involved for both the physical implementation of
infrastructure improvements and the intended institutional development
of provincial and local governments. For the physical development
supported by the project, the most significant risks include
inappropriate investment choices by local governments, inadequate
inspection and/or financial controls resulting in poor quality or
incomplete works, and failure to implement proposed works due to budget
shortages, land acquisition problems, or other obstacles. There is also
a serious risk involving the pace of required institutional development,
for decentralized systems of management, finance, manpower, and related
processes, as it is difficult to predict and may not be adequate for
full and timely achievement of all project activities in all local
governments and these PDAMs. The ability of the four provincial
governments to further strengthen their capacity to perform their
assigned program management and intermediation functions is also a
substantial general risk factor for the effectiveness of the whole
program. In response to these risks, the project will focus on building
decentralized implementation capacity through competent and experienced
implementation support teams which will give hands-on advice to
encourage learning-by-doing. The physical implementation of the project
will be greatly assisted by improved transparency and accountability
provided by the PPIM and APIPs clarifying the roles and responsibility
for each implementing unit. The Bank has planned sufficient supervision
resources, especially in the early years, for early detection and
solution of problems.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 27, 1996.
- 5 -



