Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15080-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 17, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1995)
Currency Unit   =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00    =   Rp 2,260
Rp I million    =   $442
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia:                    April I - March 31
Provincial and Local Governments:           April I - March 31
Water Enterprises:                          January I - December 31



ACRONYMS USED
AMDAL/ANDAL         -    GOI Environmental Assessment Process"Report
APBN                -    Annual Central Government Development Budget
BAPPEDA ]/II        -    Provincial/Local Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS            -    National Development Planning Agency
BINA MARGA          -    Directorate for Roads and Bridges
Bupati              -    Chief Executive of a Kabupaten
CAS                 -    Country Assistance Strategy
DED                 -    Detailed Engineering Design
DGCK                -    Directorate General Cipta Karva (Human Settlements). MPW
DIP/DIPDA           -    Central/Regional Project Budget
DPUK                -    Kabupaten/Kotamadya Department of Public Works
E/FIRR              -    Economic/Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOI                  -    Government of Indonesia
ICB                 -    International Competitive Bidding
JUDP                -    Integrated Urban Development Program
IUIDP               -    Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Kabupaten           -    Local (Level 11) Regency; lleaded by a Bupati (mayor)
Kampung             -    Urban Neighborhood
KEPRES              -    Presidential Dccree
KIP                 -    Kampung Improvement Program
Kotamadya           -    Incorporated Municipality/City (Level ll); Headed by a Walikota (mayor)
LIDAP               -    Local Institution Development Action lProgram
MivHA               -    Ministry of Home Affairs
MIIP                -    Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
MOF                 -    Ministry of Finance
MPW                 -    Ministry of Public Works
NCB                  -    National Competitive Bidding
NPV                  -    Net Present Value
OED                 -    Operations Evaluation Department
O&M                 -    Operations and Maintenance
PDAM                -    Local Governnment Water Enterprise
PFAMS               -    Program Financial Accounting and Monitoring System
PJM                 -    Medium-Terni Expenditure Plan
P(PMU)              -    (Provincial) Project Management Unit
RAKORBANG I/II   -    Provincial/'Local Annual Budget Coordination Process
RAP                 -    Resettlement Action Plan
REPELITA            -    Five-year Development Plan
RIAP                -    Revenue Improvement Action Plan
Sekwilda            -    Secretariat for Regional Government
SIJUDP              -    Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Development Project (Ln. 3340-IND)
SK                  -    Surat Keputusan, decree of a senior official
SLA                 -    Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE                 -    Statement of Expenditure
SULUDP-2            -    Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
TKPP                -    Inter-Ministerial Urban Development Coordination Team, chaired by BAPPENAS
TPA                 -    Solid Waste Disposal Site
UFW                 -    Unaccounted for Water
UKL                 -    Environmental Management Plan
UPI,                -    Environmental Monitoring Plan
Walikota            -    Chief Executive of a Kotamadya
WSSLIC              -    Water Supply and Sanitation to Low Income Communities (Ln. 3929-IND)






- ii -
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia
Implementing          The Directorate General of Cipta Karya in the Ministry of Public Works is the
Agencies:             executing agency. The provincial governments of North, Central, Southeast and
South Sulawesi are the principal implementing agencies, with the participation of 40
local governments and their local water enterprises in 41 cities and towns.
Beneficiaries:        About 3.6 million residents in 41 towns and cities of 40 local governments of the
four Sulawesi provinces
Poverty:              PTI: The project targets the four provinces of Sulawesi which have a higher
incidence of poverty than the nation-wide average. The project's water supply and
sanitation sub-components will benefit the poor the most because it is they who are
without access to clean, affordable water and waste disposal facilities. The urban
neighborhood (kampung) and market improvement programs provide basic
infrastructure services that will improve the standard of living of the urban poor.
Amount:               US$155 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate for currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee:       0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Onlending Terms:      From the loan proceeds, US$3 1.0 million equivalent would be onlent by the central
government to the participating local governments and their water enterprises, at an
annual interest rate of 11.75%, for a term of 20 years, including five years grace.
Local governments and their water enterprises are fully responsible for the interest
during construction. Subsidiary Loans will be denominated and repayable in Rupiah.
Financing Plan:       Financial responsibilities for the individual subprojects are assigned in accordance
with an agreed system of functional responsibilities among the central, provincial,
and local governments (see para 4.28).
Economic Rate of      12% or more for water supply, and drainage, not quantified for other components
Return:
MOP:                  Report No. P-6739-IND
Map:                  IBRD No. 27075
Project ID No.:       ID-PA-36053
Regional Vice President:  Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Acting), East Asia and Pacific (EAP)
Director:             Ms. Marianne Haug, Country Department 111, EAP
Division Chief:       Mr. Anupam Khanna, EA31N
Staff:                Messrs. Daniel Hoornweg, EA31N, and Heinrich Unger, ASTEN






- iii -
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................          ..............................    ii
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND                                            ..I
A. Sector Overview                                                                           I
B. Government Strategy                                  .3
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE..                                                  6
A. Past Involvement                                   .6
B. Assistance Strategy and Rationale.                                                       8
III.  URBAN DEVELOPMENT IN SULAWESI ............................................................   10
A. Geographic and Economic Setting ..................................................................   10
B. Urban Areas ..................................................................    II
C. Urban Services ..................................................................       12
IV. THE PROJECT..14
A. Project Origin and Formulation .14
B. Project Objectives .16
C. Project Description .18
D. Project Costs .21
E. Financing Plan .22
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..24
A. Implementation Schedule .24
B. Project Implementation Plans .24
C. Local Implementing Agencies .25
D. Project Coordination and Monitoring .26
E. Procurement and Disbursement .28
F. Project Accounts and Audit .31
G. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Supervision .32
H. Operations and Maintenance .33
I.  Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Compensation .33
J. Environmental Aspects .33
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................................................    35
A. Financial Aspects (Local Governments and PDAM) ...............................................   35
B. Economic Justification ..................................................................  36
C. Risks ..................................................................                40



- iv -
Page
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                            ..   42
A. Assurances and Agreements Reached During Negotiations ............. .......................  42
B. Conditions of Board Presentation ....................................................................   43
C.  Conditions  of Loan  Effectiveness ........................................................................   43
D. Conditions of Disbursement ..................... ..........................................  43
E. Recommendation ...............................................................  43
TABLES IN THE TEXT
4.1: Number and Size of Sulawesi Project Towns .15
4.2: Project Cost Summary .21
4.3: Financing Plan.                                                           22
5.1: Procurement Arrangements .29
5.2: Disbursements.                                                           30
5.3: Estimated IBRD Disbursements by FY .31
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Previous World Bank Urban Infrastructure Projects in Indonesia .. 44
Annex 2:  List of Project Towns          ..45
Annex 3:    Studies Carried Out During Project Preparation    . .46
Annex 4: Real Demand Surveys             ..47
Annex 5:  Performance Indicators          ..50
Annex 6:    Local Government Development and Implementation Support ..        56
Annex 7:    Representative Investments in Sungguminasa/Rantepao/LuNvuk/Tondano .. 60
Annex 8:  Improving Municipal Management    .              .65
Annex 9:   Increased Private Sector and Community Involvement  .   .66
Annex 10:   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan    ..68
Annex I 1:   Schedule of IUIDP Annual Activities   ..78
Annex 12A: Outline of Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM) ....  79
Annex 122B: Outline of an Annual Program Implementation Plan (APIP)   ...................  80
Annex 13:   Organizational Structure for Implementation                        82
Annex 14: Disbursement Schedule           ..83
Annex 15:   Supervision Staffing and Schedule    ..85
Annex 16:   Summary of Environmental Assessment      ..86
Annex 17:  Local Government Financial Performance and Capability  . .93
Annex 18:   Economic/Financial Analysis of Subprojects    .    .95
Annex 19: General Technical Standards        ..98
Annex 20:   Documents in the Project File     ...................................... 101
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which took place from June 30 to August 3,
1995. The appraisal mission comprised Mmes./Messrs. Heinz Unger, Task Manager (ASTEN); Dan
Hoomweg, Municipal/Environmental Engineer; Keiichi Tamaki, Financial Specialist (EA3IN);
Muhammad Nuch (RSI Jakarta), lan Wetherill, Financial Analyst (Consultant); Teresa Genta-Fons
(LEGEA); Doug Martin, Environmental Specialist (Consultant); Jeff Lewis, Economist; Bruce Harris,
Anthropologist (EA3CO); John Bull, Municipal Engineer (Consultant); Ellen Schaengold, Sociologist
(ASTHR); and Kastorius Sinaga, Sociologist (RSI Jakarta). Mr. Anupam Khanna, Division Chief,
EA3IN, and Ms. Marianne Haug, Director, EA3, have endorsed the project.



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.  SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. URBAN SECTOR OVERVIEW
1.1    Demographic Trends. The current urban population of Indonesia exceeds 55 million, or nearly
30% of the national total population of 190 million. Indonesia's urban growth rates have accelerated
during the past 15 years, averaging more than 5 percent per year. About 80 million, or 40 percent of
Indonesians, will be city dwellers by the year 2000. Indonesia's urban settlements include 15 metropolitan
and large cities of at least half a million people, 40 secondary cities of 100,000 to 500,000 residents
(provincial capitals and incorporated municipalities), 200 smaller towns (mainly regency headquarters) of
20,000 to 100,000 population, and about 3,200 service centers and subdistrict headquarters with 3,000 to
20,000 people.
1.2   Institutional Framework.  At the national  level, there is no single ministry for urban
development. The National Development Planning Agency, BAPPENAS, is responsible for overall
planning and allocation of resources, focused within Five-Year Development Plans (REPELITA) and
Annual National Development Budgets (APBN).   Within BAPPENAS, the Bureau for Urban
Development, Settlement and Public Housing, under Deputy Chairman V (Regional and Provincial
Development), is responsible for oversight and coordination of urban infrastructure development, in
cooperation with other involved Bureaus (e.g. Transport under Deputy I). All key central agencies with
responsibilities in the urban sector are represented in the Inter-agency Coordinating Team for Urban
Development (Tim Koordinasi or TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS.
1.3    The principal central ministries involved in urban issues are the Ministry of Home Affairs, the
Ministry of Public Works, and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is
responsible for oversight of the regional governments, primarily through its Directorate General for Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy and Directorate General for Regional Development. The Ministry
of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for oversight of most infrastructure. Within MPW, the following
directorates general are responsible for urban infrastructure: the Directorate General for Human
Settlements (Cipta Karya or DGCK) is responsible for oversight of city and regional planning, wvater
supply, urban drainage, sanitation and sewerage, solid waste management, kampung improvement
programs (KIP), and market infrastructure improvement programs (MIIP); the Directorate General for
Roads (Bina Marga) is responsible for oversight of urban roads and bridges; and the Directorate General
for Water Resource Development (Pengairan) is responsible for urban flood control and bulk water supply.
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is responsible for central and local finance; the Directorate General for
Budget (Anggaran) administers budget transfers.
1.4    At the regional levels, provincial (Level 1) and local (Level 11) governments operate with
increasing responsibilities and delegated authority.  In all, there are 27 provinces and 304 local
governments, including 57 kotamadyas (cities) and 247 kabupatens (regencies). Legislative powers at both
provincial and local levels are held by elected People's Representative Councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat
Daerah).



2
1.5    Under Indonesia's unitary system of government. all units of sub-national government are within
the Ministry of Home Affairs. Provincial governments arc headed by appointed governors who represent
the President and the central government; the governors also hcad the scmi-autonomous provincial
administrations. Bupatis (regency heads) and Walikotas (city niavors) represent provincial governments,
and also head their oxvn local govcrnments. Regional Development Planning Agencics (BAPPEDA I and
11) report directly to their respective govcrnors, regency hcads or mavors. and are responlsible for planning
and resource allocation, while the senior administrative officer at cach levcl is thc Rcgional Secretary
(Sekwilda I and 11). Regional govcrnment services arc providcd by separate departmicnits (Dinas I and 11)
analogous to line ministrics of the central government.
1.6    Sectoral Coordination and Local Participation. Due to the hierarchical administrative system,
coordination of the urban sector has been difficult. The large size and diversity of the country, the rapid
pace of urbanization, the number of concerncd agencies. poor resource allocation, and cultural constraints
to effective communication within and among agcncies, have all lcd to a somewhat fragmentcd approach to
urban development. In order to improve coordination and targeting of resourccs to local urban services
needs, the Government of Indoiiesia's (GOI) policy of deccntralization needs to bc pursued more
effectively.
1.7    Increasingly, it is becoming apparent from  worldwide dcvelopment experience that effective
community involvement leads to improved service provision. GOI's desire to dccentralize, requires the
adoption of practical means of public participation, with incrcased accountability of local leaders and
government staff  By cntering into constructive dialogue with the community, officials are also able to
better plan and program needed service improvements. GOI regulations for annual development budget
preparation (the RAKORBANG process) call for community consultation and participation at all levels,
but implementation of this process is uneven and generally poor.
1.8    Sector Constraints and Priorities. Averagc incomes in urban arcas have risen substantially over
the past decade; however. income distribution remains relativelv skewed and in 1990. morc than 17 percent
of Indonesian urban dwellers were estimated to live in "absolute poverty" based on thcir expenditure levels.
The problems of low income are exacerbated by deficiencies in basic services and degraded environmental
conditions. Country-wide, only about 20-25 percent of urban households have direct access to piped water
supply, another 15 percent buy drinking water from vendors or standposts, and the rcst rely on shallow
wells and sometimes on surface water courses. Surface water courses in urban areas are almost always
severely polluted due to inadequately treated wastewater and illegally dumpcd solid waste. Only about 40
percent of urban households have access to adequate sanitation facilities. In the larger cities, inadequate
industrial water supply, and liquid and solid waste disposal are serious problems. To mect GOI's service
and equity objectives, more investment is needed in local systems.  The Bank's 1993 Urban Public
Infrastructure Services Report (No. 12154-lND) estimated that the 1990 infrastructurc investment backlog
was at least some US$5 billion for the main five subsectors (piped wvater supply, sanitation, solid waste,
urban roads, and drainage). Further, a substantial backlog prevails in the maintenancc of facilities, which
has resulted in decreased productivity of previous infrastructure investments.
1.9    Sector Finances. Finances of provincial and local govcrnments have long been dominated by
central government transfers and are characterized by weak local resource mobilization, low per-capita
budgets and limited use of credit for capital investment. The traditionally dominant role played by central
government financing of local government infrastructure is partly due to the GOI unitary system which
limits local authority for levying taxes. Grants and other revenue sharing mechanisms used by GOI are
intended to resolve the disparity between increasingly decentralized service responsibilities and local
resource mobilization. Although grant allocation criteria have been modified to respond better to local



3
needs and shortfalls (compared to minimum standards), there is a need to more closely relate grant
allocations to local performance and economic productivity requirements.
1.10   Urban Infrastructure Issues. The main problems and issues faced by all Indonesian urban areas
are: (a) serious infrastructure deficiencies and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) backlogs; (b) lack of
coordination in integrating infrastructure investments with land management and transport objectives; (c)
no administrative status for urban areas, other than the largest cities (Kotamadya); (d) weak management
of water enterprises; (e) poor financial management including deficient accounting practices, lack of
adequate cost recovery. weak revcnue generation, and little use of credit, as well as poor inforrnation
systems; (f) inefficient programming of the design and construction cycles, often compressed into single
fiscal years; (g) complex relationships among local, provincial and central agencies with respect to
responsibilities for project and program preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation, and O&M; and
(h) shortage of traincd and expericnced managerial and technical personnel at all levels.
1.11   Local governments are required by MHA to prepare and implement Revenue Improvement Action
Plans (RIAPs) to improve revenues under their own administration. While this has improved the situation
in some local governments, there is still much room for further local revenue growth. Restructuring of
central-local government financial relationships and improved fiscal capacities for local governments in
Indonesia are topics of on-going policy dialogue which are gaining increased urgency as growth in urban
services requirements outpace local capacities to respond. The larger infrastructure projects are still often
financed directly from the national budget (APBN/DIP) and are executed by the regional offices of central
government agencies (Kanwil) for subsequent transfer to the local government. However, these projects
frequently lead to land acquisition and/or O&M obligations which the local governments are not fully
capable of undertaking. Local government borrowing capacities are generally quite limited and incentives
to borrow are weak in the current financing pattern, although some capable local governments are willing
to accelerate their development program by borrowing.
B. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
1.12   IUIDP Approach.  With large deficiencies in urban infrastructure and a fast-growing urban
population, GOI's strategy in the past has emphasized physical infrastructure targets: length of roads to be
built, percentage of population to be supplied with piped water, sanitation services, etc. These targets have
a prominent place in the REPELITAs. In 1987, GOI issued a statement of urban policies, representing a
consolidated vicwv of development in the sector.  This Policy Statement for Urban Development,
incorporated in REPELITA V (for the period 1989-94) includes. (a) strengthening local governments to
build, operate and maliltain local services; (b) improving the planning and programming of urban
infrastructure investments; (c) mobilization of local revenues and the optimization of their use; and (d)
strengthening consultative processes at various levels of government, particularly the participation of
municipalities and regencies.
1.13   GOI's Policy Statement called for Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programs (IUIDP)
as the operational approach for achieving the above objectives. The policy was translated into action plans
for local institutional strengthening (Local Institutional Development Action Plan or LIDAP) and
improvements in local resource mobilization (RIAP). sector programming, and financing arrangements.
GOI has also provided (wvith domestic funds) further support to the reform effort of the local government
revenue departments, initiated under the Fifth Urban Project (Ln. 2408-IND). In the current five-year plan
(REPELITA VI), GOI has continued to develop the IUIDP process to emphasize the following priorities:
(a) expanding the scope of the IUIDP process to includc additional subsectors vhicch are important in
promoting the economic development of cities; (b) strengthcning local government institutional capabilities;



4
(c) improving O&M of urban infrastructure; (d) improving cost recovery and implementation of a more
fully integrated system for the financing of urban infrastructure services; and (e) increasing attention to
urban land and environmental management.  GOI is also encouraging experimentation by local
governments with various mechanisms for private sector participation in urban services delivery.
Community participation is also being actively promoted.
1.14   GOI also issued regulations and policy clarifications to operationalize urban sector policy and the
IUIDP approach. With World Bank, Asian Development Bank and bilateral assistance. GOI has created a
nation-wide program for IUIDP preparation and implementation beginning in 1987, and more recently the
United Nations Development Program/United Nations Commission for Human Settlements (Habitats) and
the Bank supported a central assistance team to the IUIDP process led by TKPP at BAPPENAS. To date
more than 75 percent of all local governments have completed at least one round of IUIDP program
preparation and initiated implementation.
1.15   Local Borrowing. Under REPELITA V, GOI also gave priority to the expansion of borrowing by
local governments and their water enterprises (PDAMs). To induce a higher level of credit financing, GOI
adopted less conservative financial criteria for borrowing by local entities (debt service coverage ratio of
not less than 1.5 for local government general fund operations and not less than 1.3 for local enterprises
such as PDAMs). This has brought the legal borrowing capacitv of local governments, particularly the
larger municipalities, more in line with their considerably underutilized financial capacity. There is,
nevertheless, a natural preference for grant financing on the part of local governments, especially for
investments that do not directly generate revenues through service charges. GOI's intent is to fix medium
and long-term interest rates for local governments and their enterprises at a level approximating market
rates for development borrowings, but suitable reference rates reflecting market conditions for long-term
borrowing are only now emerging from recent public sector bond sales. MOF sets fixed rates for local
government borrowings each year for loans initiated during that y'ear; for the past two years the rate has
been 11.75% which has been positive in real terms and generally approximates market borrowing costs.
1.16   REPELITA VI. REPELITA VI and the second 25 Year National Development Plan, both of
which started in April 1994, emphasize sustainable urban development through improvement in the quality
of the living environment, support for economic growth, reduction in regional development disparities, and
poverty alleviation. Perhaps the most significant change reflected in REPELITA VI is to shift the focus of
GOI urban programs from overcoming current service deficits to a more forward-looking emphasis on the
investments needed to realize the economic potential of urban areas, including their functions as service
centers for regional development. While continuing the basic premises of REPELITA V and the National
Policy Statement for Urban Development mentioned above, REPELITA VI takes a more strategic approach
by expanding the IUIDP into an Integrated Urban Development Program (IUDP) that includes: (a) a larger
number of smaller cities and towns. (b) broader spatial planning and urban planning in addition to public
works infrastructure development plans; (c) expanding the scope of Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
to cover low income and rental housing, infrastructure provision for low-income areas, and urban renewal;
(d) involving the private sector and communities to a greater extent; and (e) strengthening environmental
sustainability. To accelerate decentralization and implementation of plans, emphasis is being placed on
better use of resources, mobilization of local revenues, developing financing mechanisms, and increasing
cost recovery by municipalities and their agencies. Better coordination and strengthening of local agencies
is also being sought. Financing policies towards urban services emphasize local government revenue
improvement as well as greater efficiency in the deployment of the revenues; and more use of the central
government lending and special urban grant mechanisms as the means of financing urban development
under local management.



5
1.17   For at least 20 years, GOI has been promoting aggressive economic development in the Eastern
Islands (especially Sulawesi and Irian Jaya). REPELITA VI - as well as IV and V before - contains a
development strategy for the Eastern Islands. Growth in the Eastern Islands is considered important to both
harness the natural resources of the region, and to provide socio-economic development opportunities
comparable to Java's (largely an equity issue). The GOI has identified 'Kawasan Andalan"' which are
areas where strategic investments in infrastructure might anchor a regional strategy and promote wider
development objectives. The 'lava development model" of export oriented manufacturing is not suitable
for the Eastern Islands, and thus the Government is pursuing alternative growth strategies. Recognizing the
deficiencies in the provision of urban infrastructure services and the need for focused development
strategies in the Eastern Islands, the GOI has placed a high priority on improving the infrastructure of
Sulawesi's urban centers.
1.18   Environment and Resettlement. In late 1993, GOI enacted Law 51/93 on environmental impact
assessment, mitigation and monitoring measures, and Presidential Decree (KEPRES) 55 on land acquisition
and compensation for public facilities, to improve on earlier decrees and their application. Law 51/93
makes refinements to GOI's environmental assessment procedures, which are now substantially consistent
with World Bank policies and best practices under Bank-financed projects. Decree 55 seeks to ensure that
persons affected by project land acquisition have adequate access to information, fair negotiations,
compensation awards based on market values, and rights of appeal to the courts. KEPRES 55 still has
gaps, primarily in the areas of entitlement eligibility, compensation calculations and funding sources, when
compared with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, and time will be required to develop implementation
capacities based on local cxperiences. The proposed Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
(SULUDP-2) will assist the four Sulawesi provinces and the local governments to fully comply with GOI
and related Bank requirements for environment and resettlement issues.
1.19   The Second East Java Urban Development Project (Ln. 4017-IND) has been instrumental in
encouraging the Province of East Java to draft - in close consultation with the Bank - and subsequently
adopt a Govemor's Decree on resettlement. This Decree is now being adopted in the four Provinces of
Sulawesi. The SULUDP-2 includes a five-year assistance strategy to enhance and operationalize the
dialogue on resettlement. Promising results have already been seen during project preparation. The local
government concerned, with the assistance of DGCK, and the preparation consultants, has prepared a
resettlement action plan for the town of Luwuk. Bank staff have also discussed resettlement options, as
well as their costs and implications, in Luwuk, Bitung, and Sengkang, where resettlement schemes were
initially proposed but not yet confirmed.



6
2.   BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
A. PAST INVOLVEMENT
2.1    Overall Sector Experience. The Bank has been involved in the urban water supply sector since
the 1960s, with relatively little change in approach. While many projects have provided substantial
economic and health benefits, the experience indicates: (a) supply of water has lagged behind increasing
demand; (b) delays in project implementation are common; (c) improving institutions and achieving cost-
recovery have been slow, difficult and neglected; (d) water quality is a persistent problem; and (e) disposal
of waste water and solid waste in urban areas is difficult (Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
Review of Water Supply, Report No. 10789).
2.2    Bank involvement in the urban sector started in the early 1970s with low cost investment projects
in shelter, water supply, sanitation, and urban transport, aimed at alleviating urban poverty. Sites and
services and slum upgrading projects were to demonstrate replicable approaches benefiting the poor, while
recovering costs and reducing the financial burden on the public sector. Many of these projects succeeded
in physical terms, but had little impact on the policies of national and local governments. The Bank had not
paid adequate attention to the policy and institutional requirements for improving the productivity of the
urban economy and reducing urban poverty, and improving management of the urban environment.
Further, as many of the urban programs did not achieve sustainable policy reform and institutional
development, project approaches were generally not replicable outside the framework of Bank financial
support (OED Twenty Years of Urban Sector Lending, Report No. 13117).
2.3    By the mid-1980s the experience of donor-assisted projects had led to shifts in approaches in the
urban sector. It was recognized that central governments alone were unable to meet the increasing needs
for infrastructure services of rapidly growing urban populations and greater efforts had to be devoted to:
(a) improving the management capability of urban institutions and inter-governmental fiscal relations; (b)
improving local resource mobilization; (c) enhancing the management and quality of urban infrastructure,
particularly with regard to maintenance; (d) establishing enabling, rather than constraining, regulatory
frameworks; (e) expanding financial services for urban development; and (f) promoting private sector
participation in urban service delivery. Recent initiatives by governments and donors in these areas reflect
a growing appreciation of the importance of policies, institutions, and regulations in formulating effective
strategies to manage urban growth.
2.4    Experience in Indonesia. The Bank has financed 13 completed and 10 ongoing urban and water
supply projects in Indonesia since 1974, for more than 70 local governments and many of their water
enterprises (see Annex 1). Urban lending operations in Indonesia have progressed from demonstration
projects in Jakarta through more programmatic investments in selected other large cities, to sector lending
within an agreed policy and institutional framework (although still limited in terms of area and subsectoral
scope). Water supply projects initially covered only a few cities at a time, but later, like Bank projects in
other countries, assisted a large number of urban settlements under one operation. Details concerning the
impact of the previous generation of Bank-funded urban infrastructure projects are available from a study
carried out by OED in September 1995 entitled, 'lndonesia: Impact Evaluation Report, Enhancing the
Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia - The Legacy of Kampung Improvement Program", (Report no. 14747-
IND). In urban transport projects, or the transport components of urban development projects, attention
has focused on road construction and traffic management and maintenance. Even so, implementation of
road schemes was slower than expected, and quality of construction has frequently been the cause of



7
reduced facility life span. Adequate attention was not been given to improvement of public transport
services and facilities for non-motorized vehicles or pedestrians.
2.5    Bank experience confirms that: (a) limited planning and implementation capacity at the central
government level, and the difficulties inherent in providing essentially local services by central govemment
departments, reduces the efficiency of mass delivery programs; (b) capacity building at the local level is a
long-term process that needs to be accompanied by structural and institutional strengthening to achieve an
increase in local responsibility and accountability; and (c) to develop such responsibility and
accountability, central-local financial relations need to provide more local government autonomy and
enable private sector involvement. Furthermore, the OED impact cvaluation report, cited above, concluded
that under conditions of rapid economic development, targeted urban sector improvement programs can
have a very positive impact on low-income areas, and that those impacts can be achieved at a low cost of
investment that reaps high economic rates of return.
2.6    The OED retrospective on 20 years of urban lending documents the following highlights of the
impact of 115 completed urban projects which have helped in the formulation of the Bank's assistance
strategy for urban development in Indonesia in general and the proposed project in particular. First, an
important achievement of urban projects was cost-effective service delivery and increase in the low-cost
urban infrastructure stock. Second, repeater projects not only help sustain nascent institutional innovations
but also allow them to be scaled up and diffused more widely. (The Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban
Development Project (SIJUDP) (Ln. 3340-ND) had nine participating local governments; the proposed
project deepens assistance to these and broadens it to an additional 32 local governments). Third, despite
the priority accorded to institutional development by the Bank's urban sector policies and despite its being
a goal of two thirds of the projects studied, it was achieved in less than a third. Fourth, an excessive
emphasis on physical targets is detrimental to institutional and financial (cost-recovery) goals. Finally, not
only is it necessary to give explicit attention to environmental implications but it must also integrate the
social and technical aspects.  Experience also showed that competent and dynamic local leadership,
complemented by good technical staff was an important ingredient for positive outcomes. A further lesson
from SIJUDP was that the virtual lack of a formal role for the provincial level left the local government
mostly on their own, since Bank and central government supervision visits were infrequent. Reporting and
monitoring was also much more difficult without active provincial level involvement.
2.7    The Sulawesi Urban Experience. Specific to urban development in Sulawesi communities, the
Bank has funded the already completed Water Supply II (Ln. 1709-IND), Urban III (Ln. 1653-IND), and
Urban V (Ln. 2408-ND) during the 1980s, and the ongoing SIJUDP. Experience has shown that one of
the most effective ways to strengthen local institutions is through well prepared and well-targeted project-
type interventions, while at the same time, providing general management advice and support. The need
for locally and regionally sensitive support is particularly important for the Eastern Islands including
Sulawesi. Implementation of SIJUDP and preparation of this project have already highlighted the
difficulties and opportunities associated with Sulawesi's topography and largely agrarian make-up. The
most effective approaches in the SIJUDP are hands-on, practical on-the-job training and operational
advice.
2.8    The proposed project design takes into account these lessons.  Significant responsibility in
subproject selection and implementation will be handled by the local governments and their water
enterprises with provincial support in the proposed programmatic approach to this project; suitable
assistance in project management, local revenue administration, and improvements in operations and
maintenance will be provided; and management advisory services will be provided to the water enterprises.
Many of the towns have relatively weak institutions. Efforts will be made to ensure that on-going



8
provincial assistance is available, as well as maximizing transferal of lessons learned in one town to
another.
B. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND RATIONALE
2.9    Bank Sector Strategy. The Bank has oriented its overall sector lending to assist the Government
to deliver adequate urban infrastructure services in cost-effective ways. GOI and the Bank emphasize
improvements in: (a) service levels, particularly for the poor; (b) urban productivity and the effectiveness of
investments through better infrastructure planning and programming, especially at the city level, (c)
enhanced local government capacity for fiscal management, revenue mobilization, project implementation
and O&M; (d) the urban environment by improving local government capacity to plan, build and operate
infrastructure in an environmentally sound fashion; and (e) enhanced community participation.
2.10   In promoting efficient urban development, the Bank's strategy supports the expanded IUDP
approach; however, implementation should include both sectoral and integrated approaches as
appropriate. For example, in smaller municipalities multisectoral projects are generally of manageable size
and complexity; an integrated investment approach would, therefore, be more appropriate. In other cases,
where the requirements of a particular sector are sufficiently large and complex, both in technical terms as
well as on policy, institutional and financial matters, sectoral projects within the framework of an
integrated plan may be better suited to implementation capacities.
2.11   The Bank's urban development financing  strategy emphasizes increased  local resource
mobilization through the improvement and efficient deployment of local government and water enterprise
own-source revenues, including appropriate use of the enhanced borrowing capacities which will arise as a
consequence of the improvements in revenue. Even with such improvements, however, given Indonesia's
fiscal incentives the capacities of the local institutions to contribute to the financing of the extensive urban
infrastructure deficiencies will in most cases remain limited for the foreseeable future, occasioning a
continuing need for supplementary special assistance from the central government in the form of non-
repayable financing contributions. Recognizing the need for such special assistance to be structured so as
to provide an incentive for the mobilization of improved local revenues into the urban infrastructure
sectors, as well as to promote the objective of decentralization of responsibilities to the local level, the Bank
continues to support the provision of the assistance in the form of financial investment grants which
complement local revenues and borrowing from the central level, with the implementation of the grants
being managed by the local institutions. In all these respects the Bank's strategy is fully in accord with the
policies enunciated in REPELITA VI.
2.12   The Bank's strategy also promotes establishing an enabling regulatory and planning framework for
urban land management. A key focus of the Bank's strategy will be to support GOI efforts to establish an
effective land management system and simplify other regulations to facilitate more efficient and
environmentally sound urban land use and strengthen land tenure.  The Bank is also assisting the
Government to develop improved implementation frameworks for addressing environmental and social
impacts of urban projects.
2.13   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project's objectives are consistent with the Bank's 1995
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed in March 1995, and its Progress Report discussed on June 4,
1996. They envisage that the lending for infrastructure will remain a large part of the Indonesia program
and 'Wvithin infrastructure, there will be a shift in emphasis towards improving the quality of urban services
and dealing with issues such as improving water quality and waste management." The CAS also highlights
the need for improving public service delivery especially to the poor, greater decentralization of



9
responsibilities, and improved environmental management. These are also the cornerstones of the evolving
GOI urban policy agenda to which the Bank has provided critical support and strategic input during the
past two decades. In the urban sector, the Bank therefore supports the integrated urban development
concept and enhancing coordination of planning, implementation and supervision among all levels of
government, in order to improve the delivery of urban services and enable local governments to assume
greater responsibly for urban management
2.14   The proposed project would help GOI meet these needs in the four provinces of Sulawesi by
emphasizing: the decentralization of responsibility for project management and implementation; the
integration of environmental considerations in urban development; the strengthening of local government
institutions and human resources for urban management; the improved access to services, priced at an
affordable level to lower income groups and under-serviced areas, as well as new development areas;
community participation in urban investment programs; the important linkages between rural agricultural
activities and urban services; and the generation of resources for infrastructure investment. The thrust of
the project is also consistent with the poverty alleviation and environmental improvement objectives of the
country assistance strategy as the project includes targeted interventions designed to improve the standard
of living and the quality of the environment in all project towns.
2.15   As noted earlier (para 1.13-1.16), an important GOI objective for the infrastructure sector in
REPELITA VI is to enhance the role of the private sector in the provision of public services which is a
growing phenomenon in East Asia. Bank advice has been sought in three areas, namely shifting the
appropriate balance between public and private roles; developing sector policy and regulatory framework;
and analyzing financial (including debt) implications. The Bank has helped prepare framework papers for
private participation in power, ports and solid waste management. Workshops for central and regional
government officials have been organized in these sectors as well as water supply where GOI is seeking to
involve private operations both in operation and financing, but progress has been slow to-date. Within
urban services the other areas where opportunities are most likely to be pursued are solid waste and
management of markets.  The size and economic base of most of the urban centers in Sulawesi
participating in the proposed project, as well as the general stage of evolution of local administration in
Indonesia, are such that relatively simple and small schemes, more alien to outsourcing or contracting out
major private investments in fixed assets, and involving more local capital and entrepreneurial talent than
foreign or even Java based conglomerates, are likely to be realized. Even this will require a shift in
attitudes, basic changes in the way things are done, as well as sustained and significant amounts of small
scale "hands-on" technical assistance, which will be provided under the proposed project.
2.16  In recent years Sulawesi has been important for advancing efforts attempted by the Bank in
support of regional development off-Java particularly in the Eastem Islands. New initiatives in this regard
include the rural Water Supply and Sanitation to Low Income Communities (WSSLIC) (Ln. 3929-IND)
project, and regional supervision in South Sulawesi. Experience is showing that a more locally sensitive
and consistent assistance strategy is needed for regions such as Sulawesi.  The Bank's continued
involvement in Sulawesi builds on the considerable lessons to date, and ensures a continued development
effort commensurate with local needs and capabilities. The GOI and the Bank recognize that development
in Sulawesi (and the rest of the Eastem Islands) is a slow process and that issues such as cost recovery and
capacity building will require sustained efforts over a longer period.



10
3.  URBAN DEVELOPMENT IN SULAWESI
A. GEOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC SETTING
3.1    The result of two tectonic plates crashing together, Sulawesi's complex geological history has
given rise to a strangely shaped island of some 181,000 km2 surface area, with a coastline of over 5,000 km
in length.' Sulawesi's topography ranges from coastal plains to mountains in excess of 3,000 meters
elevation; 83% of the island exhibits slopes of more than 15°. The island straddles the equator; the tropical
climate, fertile lowland soils, and relative isolation have produced a rich and unique ecological tapestry.
The cultural fabric of Sulawesi with its unique ethnic traditions is also a valuable heritage, with important
examples of the sea-faring Bugis and the ritualistic animists of Tana Toraja. Like much of the rest of
Eastern Indonesia, Sulawesi's geography is the single most important factor shaping local development.
3.2    The entire island of Sulawesi (formerly Celebes) now has an overall population of about 13.5
million. While the island has considerable mineral wealth, most of the population derives its livelihood
from  harvesting biological resources, viz agriculture, forestry and fishing.  Most of the limited
manufacturing base is small-scale and related to agroprocessing. The development of service industries to
date has been inhibited by difficult inland communications and dominated by government.
Administratively, the island of Sulawesi is made up of four provinces: North Sulawesi (Utara), Central
Sulawesi (Tengah), Southeast Sulawesi (Tenggara), and South Sulawesi (Selatan).
3.3    South Sulawesi with the largest urban population (2,220,244) has a diversified economy more
characteristic of core regions within Indonesia. Most economic activity centers on Ujung Pandang in the
south-east of the province. The city, largest in the country east of Surabaya, had been nominated as the
"principle gateway center" to serve the Eastern Islands. Overall, South Sulawesi has a relatively complex
and sophisticated economy evolved over 500 years as a trading region. However, recent growth has been
slower, but the manufacturing sector continues to develop. In rural areas, sub-regional specialization
allows the production of a wide range of cash and food crops including a net rice surplus. The customs and
scenery of Tana Toraja in the northem part of the province attracts increasing number of foreign and local
visitors.
3.4    Central Sulawesi (urban population 345,957) is defined by its geography.  The extent, and
particularly the quality, of development land is extremely limited. Land communications are difficult, and
in some cases impossible due to seasonal flooding and erosion. Nevertheless, the province has recently
experienced rapid economic growith in the small manufacturing sector where previously there was just
subsistence agriculture.  The sector is based on the emergence of relatively high-productivity agro-
processing. This is in marked contrast to the situation in the 1970s and 80s. It may represent a unique
development path for the province. but it is more likely that growth will slow substantially as base figures
rise. Population and economic activity is heavily concentrated in the city of Palu, the provincial capital,
where the topography has produced an unusual tropical desert climate.
3.5    North Sulawesi (urban population 761,218) contains the second principal urban centers in the
region in the form of Manado and Bitung, with its deep water port. There is also a growing tourism sector
centered on Bunaken National Marine Park. However, there are few secondary centers and the economy is
based on a limited range of commodities (e.g. tree crops) which have proved to be vulnerable to the ups and
Sulawesi's coastline complexity ratio is an extreme 3.39. coastline complexity is calculated by dividing the
actual coastline length of an island by the circumference of a circle of equal area.



11
downs of world markets. Land area limits future expansion of the agricultural sector, forcing continued
emigration. Distance from markets constrains the growth of alternative employment for the generally well-
educated population.
3.6    Southeast Sulawesi (urban population 282,625) is the least developed of the four Sulawesi
provinces. The economy is currently focused on the relatively accessible off-shore islands rather than the
mainland.  This arrangement is characteristic of maritime regions at this earlv level of economic
development. The direct access to South Sulawesi via the Trans-Sulawesi Highway provides the first road
link to the Province, (previously access was via a route from Ujung Pandang, incorporating a section by
ferry across the Bone Bay, to link into the mainland towns of Kolaka and Kendari). The Province remains
relatively isolated, with poor communications and a mostly dispersed population.
3.7    With increasing regional economic integration in East Asia, Sulawesi is expected to be a key part
of the ASEAN economic growth arca known as BIMP EAGA (made up of Brunei, Indonesia [Sulawesi,
Maluku, Kalimantan], Malaysia [Sarawak, Sabah], and [Southemi Philippines). Activities under this new
initiative have already been limited by infrastructure constraints in towns such as Bitung (water supply for
tuna canning). Such commercial demands on infrastructure add to the already large backlog, and
foreshadow future demands for residential services. For example. as demographics change, the number of
households is increasing in Sulawesi more than twice as fast as the population growth.
B. URBAN AREAS
3.8    The urban population of all four Sulawesi provinces combined is around 3.6 million and growing
by more than 5% per year. Almost half of the urban residents live in the two largest cities, Ujung Pandang
and Manado, located at opposite ends of the island in South and North Sulawesi respectively and separated
by some 900 air kilometers or over 1300 kilometers of arduous roads.  Sulawesi is less developed
economically than the Inner Islands (i.e. Java and Bali), which is reflected in its urban settlement patterns
as well, and the incidence of urban poverty is substantially higher than the national average.
3.9    Despite large and continuing government investments in Sulawesi, the impact on regional
development has been less than expected. Few developmental '"pin-off' benefits have accrued from
resource extraction. Geographical disadvantages (relative isolation and rugged topography), infrastructure
deficiencies, e.g. poor ports, and difficult roads, as well as administrative disincentives, e.g. restrictions on
direct exports, are all severe impediments to regional development.
3.10   Urban areas in Sulawesi have an important supporting role for rural economic development.
Primary and secondary towns often serve large areas and populations. Agricultural and natural renewable
resource activities still remain the cornerstone of the region's economy and urban centers are therefore
critical in supplying communication, administrative, marketing and transport services. A recent study has
identified four main models of characteristic growth paths for the development of Sulawesi's urban centers
and their surrounding areas: (i) administrative service centers, (ii) agricultural service centers, (iii) special
function centers, e.g. tourism, transport, mining, and (iv) economic transformation (where local initiatives
supported by appropriate investment are mobilized to address economic stagnation or decline).
3.11   The principal emphasis of the sub-regional strategy is on medium/small towns as centers which
link rural economic activities with main centers in pursuit of integrated regional development.
Complementary elements also deal with the larger urban centers, inter-urban links, market access, and
helping to build a balanced hierarchy of towns and cities.



12
3.12   The urban structure and hierarchy in Sulawesi have been largely defined by the predominantly
rural economic basc. low population density across much of the regions and topographical and
communication constraints. The principal features of this structure are: (i) a relative dominance of a few
provincial cclters (population over 100,000) which capture and are, in turn, dominated by a high
concentration of trade and public/private service activity. (ii) a limited, but increasingly significant, number
of sccondarn ccnters (all cities and/or regency capitals) which, bcsides their administrative roles, can be
largely justified in terms of their specialist economic functions and/or in terms of overall size and relative
concentration of catchment area population; and (iii) a residual of smaller towns (generally in the order of
15.(0() to 3(.000() population), which include all the remaining regcncy capitals but little else.
C. URBAN SERVICES
3.13    The ongoing SIJUDP aimed to meet priority urban infrastructure needs in nine Sulawesi towns.
There arc still significant backlogs in the provision of urban infrastructure services in these towns, as well
as in most of the othcr urban ccnters which have not yet benefited from  targeted, integrated urban
infrastructurc invcstments. For example, in the water supply subsector, piped water connection coverage
is typically bclow: 40%. and many distribution systems show unaccounted-for-water (UFW) in the range
of 40%. duc to physical and administrative losses. Urban roads are in a state of serious deterioration due
to the lack of sufficiClnt O&M or due to inadequate capacity; manv towns also lack essential network links -
there are ftcv X%Cll intcgrated major road networks - or access to newly developed commercial or residential
areas. In the solid waste management subsector, less than half of the solid waste is being collected.
Collcction cquipmcnt falls short of fast growing demand, and acccss roads to waste disposal sites (where
they exist) arc also inadequate. Many cxisting landfill sites are either running out of capacity, are poorly
managed or arc improperly sited and may be causing serious pollution of water resources. In the human
waste/sanitation subsector., household-level, on-site facilities are lacking, equipment for septic sludge
collection is inadequate, and desludging volume is lcss than 20%  of the volume generated. In the
drainage/flood control subsector. poor maintenance, insufficient capacity, and inappropriate designs lead
to frcquCllt floodinig problems in manv lowv lying areas and along river banks.
3.14    Thlis lack of adequate basic urban infrastructure serviccs hurts the poor the most, because it is
primarily the poor N%ho are without access to clean and affordable water and waste disposal facilities, and
who usually hvc in low-ly ing areas that are often affected by flooding. Since urban poverty in Sulawesi is
substantially higher than the national average in Indonesia, a proportionally higher number of poor are
affected by thc existing infrastructure and service deficiencies.
3.15   The increas[ing urban infrastructure and services deficicncies also interfere with the efficient
performance of the important service and support functions of these towns. They often are administrative
centers, scrvc as markcts places and transportation hubs, handle scrvice and supply provision. and support
small industrics and processing facilities. These activities depend heavily on good access and transport.
rcliable and clcan watcr supplv, sanitary facilities,  safety from  flooding, and availability of land and
housilg.
3 16   As a resuilt of the rcccnt economic and population growth. many Sulawesi towns have experienced
a boom in rcsidential inousing development and an expansion of kampung, slum and squatter areas. The
lattcr arc miiostly onl marginal lands with little or no services, suffer from pollution. are prone to flooding,
and they hlOLisc -ostlV low-income families at high densities (up to 500 persons per ha.). Due to lack of
devclopmcni planning and coordination, the higher cost housing estates often also lack proper access, good
water supple and sanitation, and flood protection.



13
3.17   Continued neglect of urban infrastructure and services would not only lead to increasing
degradation of the urban and per'-urban environment, but would also affect public health. These negative
impacts would in turn constrain the growth of the local economy, especially new investments in the
tourism, processing and manufacturing sectors.



14
4.   THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION
4.1    The Project responds to REPELITA VI urban policy initiatives through the continuation and
expansion of the IUIDP component of the ongoing Sulawesi - Irian Jaya Project.  Critical urban
infrastructure investments and assistance for municipal management would be provided to some 32
strategically important, secondary towns selected from the four Sulawesi provinces in addition to the nine
towns already benefiting from SIJUDP-financed investment. The scope of the subsectors covered has been
enlarged over the first project. The eight subsectors now covered are: urban planning, housing, water
supply, sanitation, drainage, urban roads, solid waste management, and urban renewal. Activities are also
better defined to take advantage of the lessons learned from the previous project, which are: (i) recognition
of the importance of good O&M is still lacking; (ii) quality control is not yet systematically used during
implementation; (iii) environmental management and monitoring is slow to take root; (iv) overall urban
management is still lacking in many towns; and (v) Sulawesi's geography complicates communications and
travel, and necessitates more responsive forms of implementation support and project supervision. On the
positive side, however, there is increased awareness of the regional importance of these towns, and there is
good local leadership and targeted support from the central government.
4.2    The scale of the project is large. At the request of GOI, particularly in view of past neglect, every
kabupaten (region) and kotomadya (city) in Sulawesi is included in this project. This comprehensive
approach is intended to promote greater decentralization through: strengthening horizontal linkages (e.g.
information sharing between communities); provision of critical infrastructure, such as markets, to
complement rural development efforts; and strengthening operations of all four provincial governments.
4.3    The Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project (SULUDP-2) is intended to give continued
operational reality to the GOI Urban Policy Statement adopted in 1987, underpinning the Urban Sector
Loan (2616-IND). The SULUDP-2 reflects the six key priority areas of the GOI Urban Policy Statement
and the related Policy Action Plan, which GOI recently reconfirmcd and extended as the basis for policy
actions in the current GOI five-year development plan (REPELITA VI). The six policy themes were:
(a) Decentralization of urban services delivery responsibilities to local governments
(kabupatens/kotamadyas), as their capacities permit;
(b) Preparation and implementation of local urban improvement programs with the framework of
the GOI IUIDP, defined to include physical infrastructure investment and O&M for public
works sub-sectors and programs;
(c) Development of local government institutional capacities to manage and sustain urban
services delivery systems to rapidly growing urban populations;
(d) Strengthening of local government capacities to mobilize resources and optimize the use of
funds under their control;
(e) Improvement in the framework for coordination and consultation among the involved
agencies through: (i) new/revised mechanisms for local government borrowing; and (ii)
improved criteria for allocation of grants; and



15
(f) Rationalizing the procedures for coordination and consultation among the involved
agencies and levels of government (central, provincial, and local) to improve communication
and facilitate implementation efforts.
4.4     The preceding six policy themes are generic for all dccentralization efforts of urban service
delivery in Indonesia.  These objectives are consistent with activities in Sulawesi, however, further
refinement has been needed to take into account varying levels of local capacities and infrastructure service.
The four provinces of Sulawesi themselves each have varying levels of institutional capacities, South
Sulawesi being considerably more advanced.  Also, within the 41 project towns, capabilities vary
considerably. This is to be expected as a city like Ujung Pandang or Manado will have far more resources
and staff capabilities than smaller and more isolated communities. The Project is designed to accommodate
these disparate levels of capabilities, and develop communities at a pace that reflects local conditions.
4.5     The initial project request from GOI included 18 towns (see Annex 2). Consultants contracted to
prepare a financing proposal for infrastructure investments in the 18 towns were based in Palu to ensure
proximity  and  facilitate interaction  with  local governments.   Subsequently, demanding, increased
recognition of the role of small to]vn in balanced regional development. GOI requested that the scope of
the project be expanded, and an additional 23 towns were added to the project. The additional 'Batch 2"
towns have a more programmatic investment plan. Table 4.1 below shows the number and size of project
towns.
Table 4.1: NUMBER AND SIZE OF SULAWESI PROJECT TOWNS
Province        South     Pop.      1 South East  Pop.   Central    Pop.    North     Pop.
Sulawesi            Sulawesi            Sulawesi           Sulawesi
_ _  _       4                                      .~ 
Under 25,000    6         99,963     1          17,226    1        17,545    1        22,407
25,000-50,000    12       417,864    2          65,814   2         77,835    0        0
50,000-100,000  3         224,527    1          50,585    1        63,577   3         212,946
100,000-250,000    2      259,430    1          149,000   1        187,000   1        120,810
250,000-1,000,000  0       0         0          0        0         0        1         358,900
Over 1,000,000   1         1,218,460   0        0        0         0        0         0
Total           24        2,220,244   5         282,625   5        345,957  7         715,064
4.6     Preparation activities for this project highlight the on-going needs of communities in Sulawesi.
Efforts to prioritize investment needs, agreement on a viable project scope, and obtaining relevant data and
information were most effective during the latter stages of preparation when staff from DGCK and the
consultants entered into iterative discussions with local governmcnt staff. This experience will be built
upon to enhance institutional development throughout project implementation by engaging local staff in
frequent dialogue on the full range of urban management activities.
4.7     Preparation for this project highlighted recent business innovations within the Bank including
balanced emphasis and close integration between project preparation, implementation, supervision and
sector work. Sulawesi requires a more comprehensive and coordinated assistance strategy. efforts are well



16
underway in this area. Much of the preparation work was completed through SIJUDP. Already six
separate and focused Bank interventions have been successfully accomplished within the SULUDP-2
(water resources in Pare Pare, sanitation pilot in Toli Toli, composting project in Ujung Pandang, tourism
study in Tana Toraja, assistance with solid waste disposal siting and operations, Bitung drainage study,
and sanitation alternatives; see Annex 3). Experienced non-governmental organizations, familiar with the
WSSLIC project, were used to assist with preparation of the resettlement action plans, and real demand
surveys.
4.8    As part of the project preparation activities real demand surveys were carried out by the Provincial
Bureaus of Statistics in seven sample towns where the local Planning Boards expressed the wish to gauge
the perceptions and priorities of the people - a form of urban community consultation using a representative
sample. These surveys are considered to be not only statistically valid, but they are a very useful tool to
measure community attitudes. During implementation, they could be expanded to gauge the communities
position on environmental improvements, satisfaction with quality and level of services, or changing
priorities. (Annex 4 presents a summary of the real demand surveys carried out in seven Sulawesi towns
during 1995).
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.9    The main development objective of the proposed project is to improve the delivery of urban
infrastructure services by local governments on a sustainable basis.   The more specific operational
objectives of the project include:
(a)    improve the provision of urban services through appropriate economic investments in
physical infrastructure (roads, water supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste management,
markets, and transport terminals);
(b)    strengthen operations and maintenance activities for urban services, and support improved
planning, programming, budgeting, financial management and local revenue generation by
local governments; and
(c)    improve urban environmental management and reduce local environmental impacts.
4.10   In line with existing GOI policies and planning objectives, as well as the Bank's own country
assistance strategy which emphasizes a more decentralized and participatory approach to service provision,
the proposed project also has three other aims. These process objectives are to: (i) help improve general
resettlement practices relating to resettlement of people displaced by infrastructure development; (ii) better
incorporate public and community participation in local government operations; and (iii) enhance and
rationalize public-private partnership in the provision of urban services
4.11   Measuring Progress Towards Project Objectives.  Integrated urban projects, even those
confined to a single city, are notorious for their complexity and amorphous structure. A certain degree of
complexity is intrinsic to urban development programs given the variety of basic services involved, each of
which has several relevant attributes requiring improvement (e.g. coverage, quality, reliability) as well as
many interrelated activities (e.g. production, treatment and distribution of water, or collection and disposal
of waste) and varied interactions (e.g. road works affect drainage and flooding; waste contaminates water).
The proposed project has yet another dimension of multiplicity in that it seeks to improve the provision of
urban services in 40 local governments with dramatically varying conditions. While measuring the impact
or even summarizing the intermediate outcomes in a meaningful manner is therefore difficult, it is
nonetheless imperative to monitor performance objectively and regularly during implementation because the



17
same complexity is likely to diffuse and dissipate efforts unless the management svstems are in place to
vigilantly reorient and focus them sharplv towards achieving the stated objectives.
4.12   Also, GOI has requested that any efforts to monitor project performancc are consistent with
National BAPPENAS and Cipta Karya programs. There is a keen device to measure isustainability of
development" and quality of local 'lnunicipal governance" through this project. Thc indicators were
largely developed by BAPPENAS and Cipta Karya, with minimal duplication of data gathering and
maximum integration with existing programs. During implemcntation, the Central Government and the
project Provinces will monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the execution of the project and the
achievement of the objectives using the performance indicators described below, an anniual report on the
evaluation of progress and achievements will be provided to the Bank.
4.13   A nested hierarchy of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the achievement of this
operation's objectives. At the most basic level, a sct of phvsical completion (or output) indicators will
measure the accomplishmnents in terms of physical installation of facilities (e.g. roads widened, water
supply connections, septic tanks, landfills developed) relative to thc targets embodied in each town's
medium tcrm  investment programs (PJM).  A simplc aggregation across all the participating local
government's will be used to track the overall phvsical achievcmcnts of the project, aggregation at the
provincial level will also be available for monitoring by Level I administration. Annex 5 provides details.
4.14   While such physical and financial indicators are useful at an aggregate levcl and provide a rough
indication of efficiency and effectiveness of resource use, they can be misleading as regards to the outcome
or impact on the ground, especially when the situation varics considerably across towns as in Sulawesi and
over time. More importantly, arbitrary use of such indicators can provide the wrong signals or incentives
to local officials and reinforce a top-down approach. Indeed, one of the lessons documented by OED from
the experience of completed Bank-financed urban projccts is that an excessive focus on physical targets
was harmful to institutional development and cost recovery. In order to obviate such advcrse outcomes, a
second group of performance indicators (numbers 2 through 5) has been designed to help transform local
governments into service-oriented performance-bascd organizations.  Improvcd provision of services
requires local administrators to set appropriate goals, make requisite plans, takc appropriate actions, and
evaluate the outcome. The second set of performance indicators will, therefore, support this process of
learning-by-doing. As an adjunct to basic monitoring systems for project implemcntation, every year
during the provincial approval of the Annual Projcct Implementation Plan (see para 5.5), each local
government woould agree (contract) with the provincial authorities on five to seven priority targets which
best capture the project's desired impact in each community. Thcsc targets mav vary widely according to
local conditions and perceived priorities; a menu of potential targets is presented in Anne-x 5. The
achievements of these targets would be rcviewed the following ycar and each local government would be
rated into one of four categories viz.. Highly Satisfactory (HS), Satisfactory (S), Unsatisfactory (U) and
Highly Unsatisfactory (HU). As detailed in the appendix, the decision rule to be used implies that a HS
rating requires that no more than one of the contract targets be missed, while more than two missed targets
would lead to a 'U" rating or worse. The performance would be monitorcd bv GOI and the Bank on a
portfolio basis, viz. the proportions of Level 11 local governments falling in each rating category.
4.15   As regards to objectives (b) and (c), three targets relating respectively to rcvcnue mobilization,
O&M expenditure and the urban environment would have univcrsal applicability and be monitored
annually by the implementation support team for each of the participating local govcrnmenits.



18
4.16   Finally, the three process objectives (para 4.9) are such that at this stage in the evolution of local
administration in Sulawesi, meaningful targets cannot be defined for general resettlement practices,
community participation and private provision of public services. Yet they are key components of the
relevant '"ocial infrastructure" which is necessary to enhance the ultimate value and sustainability of the
project interventions. Indeed, the project aims at facilitating a long-term attitudinal shift and change in the
way things are done. However, it is possible instead to monitor progress in these areas and the impact of
the project, if any, will indeed be tracked using quantitative indicators outlined in Annex 5.
4.17   Ultimately, the perceptions of civil society, i.e. the residents of the participating towns, regarding
the extent to which their individual and collective needs for infrastructure and urban services are being met,
must be the measure of the program's effectiveness. However, the mechanisms for measuring public
satisfaction or unmet needs are currently crude at best. Subsectoral technical memoranda for water supply,
sanitation, solid waste, and traffic management, as well as KIP/MIIP programs call for obtaining direct
public input to subproject design, but contain no provision for feedback on the resulting services. There is
now some experience (including developing countries) on having report cards on public service agencies
using surveys. As a piloting effort in Indonesia, options for expanded surveys and other mechanisms for
obtaining inputs from people at large will be investigated throughout project implementation.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.18   The proposed SULUDP-2 follows on the ongoing SIJUDP which is scheduled to close on
December 31, 1996. The new project would help to reduce the backlog of urban infrastructure investments
by providing assistance to a total of 41 Sulawesi towns involving 40 local governments (regencies and
cities). A complete list of project local governments and towns is provided in Annex 2. This project is
designed as a programmatic operation and will provide subproject investments in water supply, drainage,
urban roads, solid waste management, urban planning and kampung (neighborhood) improvement
programs (KIP), and market and terminal infrastructure and superstructure improvements. These will be
complemented by LIDAPs to improve management, increase the institutional capacity of the implementing
agencies, and RIAPs to improvc local financial management and revenue generation of the local
governments; the detailed Project Implementation Plan is available in the Project File.
4.19   The proposed project would not only fund infrastructurc investments and their related support
needs, but would also support a comprchensive implementation support strategy. The implementation
support strategy is designed to help develop local government staff to 'learn-by-doing", and build
community partnerships. These strengthened partnerships would focus on improving the role of the private
sector and maximize the contributions available through consultation and participation of the local
community. The implementation support team would be a mix of local and international experts,
community groups, and clerical support (see Annex 6). Modest, but highly focused and followed-through
interventions will be the key to this strategy. Already a simple landfill siting and operation handbook is
being prepared. This handbook will serve as an example at project launch, seeking local government input
on how best to support their operational activities throughout projcct implementation.
4.20   Infrastructure Works. The works to be carried out under the project include:
(a)    Urban Planning. This component would finance the preparation of district development
plans, site plans, district action plans, conservation and environmental plans, site layout
and design plans, and detailed town plan stucies.
(b)    Water Supply. This component would finance leakage detection and repair programs as
highest priorities and engineering studies. It would also provide funding for works



19
including investments in transmission and distribution networks, installation of hydrants,
construction of reservoirs, and the construction of office space and laboratories as well as
the procurement of laboratory equipment for somc PDAMs. It will also prepare
institutional training packages for some PDAMs. especially in the areas of water loss
reduction, O&M and financial management.
(c)    Human Waste/Sanitation. This component Avill prepare detailed engineering designs.
Civil works will include construction of septage treatment plants, and communal septic
tanks and toilets. Funds from the local government for the necessary land acquisition will
be included. Septagc removal equipment (vacuum trucks) will bc purchased.
Groundwater testing will be carried out. and instmictional and awareness packages
prepared.
(d)    Drainage/Flood Control. This component includes the preparation of plans and detailed
enginecring studies. Works include the construction and rehabilitation of primary and
secondary drainagc canals, normalization of river banks, and deferred and incremental
O&M- Final designs will incorporate flood control systems, retention basins where
appropriate, and will review usefulness of hydraulic flood control gates in low lying areas.
Public awareness packages will be prepared and training sessions held to address
indiscriminate and illegal dumping of solid wastc and to improve O&M.
(e)    Urban Roads. The project will finance the acquisition of the necessary land (using local
funds), construct and/or upgrade arteries, roadside drains, collector roads, local roads,
bridges, culverts. install traffic signals and prepare road signs and markings to improve
traffic flow. Somc periodic and routine maintenancc will be carried out under the project.
It will also finance training sessions for public works staff
(f)    Solid Waste Management. The solid waste management component will provide
increased collection coverage (aiming to reach 80%, in built-up areas of 200 p/ha density
or more) and develop new solid waste disposal sites (TPAs) in most towns. Solid waste
disposal sites will be developed as sanitary landfill sites and controlled dumps, and will be
developed together, where practical, with sludge disposal plants to handle septic tank
effluent in a number of locations. Disposal treatment facilities will be installed at each site
to treat leachate and runoff from the solid waste materials. Procurement of equipment
such as bulldozers, dump trucks, containers, special transport containers, specialized
vehicles such as arm roll trucks, compactor trucks and sludge removal trucks, and hand
carts are included in the programs for each city. Training and awareness campaigns are
also included. An emphasis on enhanced composting and recycling, better TPA site
selection and operations, and more community involvement will be maintained through out
the project.
(g)    KIP - Kampung Investment. The project will contribute to improving conditions in poor
slums and kampungs selected by the local BAPPEDA 11 and DPUK on the basis of
infrastructure deficiencies, high population densities, low incomes, and community interest
to participate in improvcments. They will be upgraded through the provision of footpaths,
drainage, sanitation improvement, water supply and acccss, road construction.
Community participation will be mobilized to achieve better targeted and more sustainable
development in the kampungs.



20
(h)    Markets and Transport Terminals. This component will fund through subloans to the
local government. siting and detailed cost recovery studies, where nceded, and
rehabilitation and new construction of markets and terminal superstructures wvith shops,
stalls and ancillary facilities for water supply, wastc management, parking and access.
(i)    Detailed Design. As defined above thc project provides engincering scrvices by local
consultants for final engineering design and supervision of more complex subprojects. The
simple subprojects will be designed and supervised in-house by the responsible local
government departments or PDAM; thcy xvill help with final dcsign of works and
supervision of the construction undertaken by contractors as requircd.
(j)    Resettlement. Rcscttlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the projcct, including
the provision of infrastructure and services in the resettlement areas.
Anne-x 7 presents representative investments in four different towvns.
Local Government Development
4.21   The proposed project recognizes that improvements to the delivery, of urban infrastructure services
will receive a commcnsurate strengthening of local governments. While this is a long-term process, it is
possible to use project investments and implementation support to bring about local government
development.   To maximize local government development, the proposed projcct has a major
implementation support component.  The implementation support strategy, see Annex 6, varies from
traditional projects since it has much more 'hands-on" assistance. Each of the four provinces would have
an implementation support team located in the field and made up of two to three experienced practitioners
(four to six in South Sulawesi due to the much larger number of towns). The four teams would be based in
the provincial capitals and would spend at lcast 70% of their timc in the field witlh counterpart staff in the
41 local governmcnts.
4.22   Each provincial implementation support team  will have experienced municipal engineering,
planning and budgeting/finance practitioners.  These specialists would also incorporate into local
government urban management and operations the use of LIDAP, RIAP, PFAMs and Performance-
Oriented Maintenance Management System; they will attempt to make these programs more relevant and
understandable to local government staff. See Annex 8
4.23   Through the implementation support component, the proposed project is also designed to
strengthen local government partnerships. The two main 'partnerships"targeted are with the private sector
and the with the general public.
4.24   Throughout thc project, efforts will be made to actively and professionally involve the private
sector where appropriate. This would be accomplishcd through improved local government contracting
(including operations contracts) and professional experienced assistance in each provincial support team.
The contracted expert in the implementation support team would help to: identify opportunities, assess
private sector capacities, prepare and award contracts, supervisc and adjust contracts. This follow-up
approach should yield more positive results than previous efforts. The communities of Sulawesi have
significant scope for private sector involvement, however this involvement will be modest. reflecting local
conditions. This scale of private sector involvement should first be viewed in terms of a few small-scale
contracts, e.g. removal of market waste. In time the scale may grow, but initially, activities will focus on



21
appropriate, locally specific partnerships. Private sector activities will also be monitored in the annual
reviews (see Annex 9).
4.25    The local government partnership with the general community will also bc strengthened.  The
project supports community-sensitive resettlement policies that are more in keeping with national and
international standards. Improvements to resettlement practices would not be limited to Bank financed
activities  only.   Similarly  the  project, through  community  survcys  and  education  activities, will further
enhance the role of the public, particularly women, in the day-to-day provision of urban infrastructure
services, e.g. solid waste. KIP and MIIP projects will involve the public in planning and implementation;
real demand surveys will also be used as a tool to better reflect the public in the municipal decision making
process. Environmental education activities would most likely focus on women, school aged children, and
business.
D. PROJECT COSTS
4.26    Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.2 below. with further details given in Annex 10.
The total project cost for the five year period 1996/97 to 2000/01 is estimated at Rp.614.6 billion,
equivalent to US$272.0 million. Base costs, in October 1995 prices, total Rp.518.3 billion (US$229.4
million), the balance of the project cost representing contingencics.  Physical contingencies average 8.7
percent of investment base costs. Price contingencies reflect current Bank estimates of domestic and
foreign inflation at 6.0 percent and 2.6 percent respectively.
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Million Rupiahis                     Million US$               %     % of Total     % of
SUBSECTOR                      Local       Foreign        Total      Local Foreign    Total    Foreign  Base Cost Total Project
K:lPMIIP/lmprovements Base Cost        24,830.4      13.370 2     38,200.6      10 99     5 92    16 90    35.0%       7 4%        6 2%
Water Supply Base Cost                 55.622 4      29,950 5     85,572 9      24 61    13 25    37 86     35 0%     165%         139%
Sanitation Base Cost                   10,7322        5,7789      16,511.0       4 75     256      731      35.0%      32%         27%
Solid Waste Base Cost                  27,098.2      25,923.7     53,021 9      11 99    11 47    23 46    48 9%      10 2%        8 6%
Town Drainage Base Cost                73.935 6      39.811 5    113,747.0      32 71    17 62    50.33    350%    21 9%           185%
Terminals Base Cost                    11,789.1       6,3480      18,137 1       522      281      803      350%       35%         3.0%
Town Roads Base Cost (incl UPR)        75,614 3      49,809.5    125,423 8      33 46    22.04    55 50    39 7%      24 2%       20 4%
Total Base Cost (Physical Only)       279,622.0    170,992.3    450,614.3      123.73    75.66   199.39     37.9%     86.9%        73.3%
Engineering Services                   20,226 5           00      20,226 5       8 95     0 00     8 95      00%       3 9%        33%
Training                                4,127.9           00       4,127 9       1 83     0 00      1 83     00%       08%         0 7%
Implementation SupportServices         14,1676        5,181.8     19,349.3       627      229      856      268%       37%         31%
PPN (Taxes)                            24,011.0           00      24,0110       1062      000    1062        00%       46%         3.9%
Total Base Cost                       342,154.9    176,174.0    518.326.9      151.40    77.95   229.35     34.0%    100.0%       84.3%
Physical Contingencies                 27,962.2      17.099 2     45,061 4      12 37     7 57    19 94    37 9%       87%         7 3%
Price Contingencies                    32,8801       18,361 0     51,241.0      1455      812    2267       358%       99%         83%
Total Prolect Cost                    402.997.2    211.634.2    614.631        178.32    93.64   271.96     34.4%    118.6%       100.0%
Land Acquisition                       17,149 7           00      17,149.7       7 59     0 00     7 59      0 0%      33%         28%
Studies&AMDAL                           6,6157            00       6,6157        293      000      293       00%       1 3%        11%
Overheads                              20,687 5           00      20,687 5       915      0 00     915       00%       40%         34%
Incremental O&M (incl. PPN)            72,841.3      39,2222    112,0635        3223    1735    4959        350%      21 6%       18.2%
Total Program Cost                    520,291.3    250,856.5    771,147.8    230.22   111.00   341.22       32.5S%    148.8%      125.5%



22
4.27    Operations and Maintenance Expenditures. Estimated incremental O&M  expenditure accounts
for Rp. 112.1 billion (US$49.6 million) or 14.5 percent estimated total program expenditures. Total
program expenditures which include O&M, land acquisition, small studies and overheads (all financed
entirely from local sources) amount to Rp.771. I billion (US$341.2 million).
E. FINANCING PLAN
4.28    The Project financing plan is summarized in Table 4.3 below, with further details given in Annex
10. The proposed Bank Loan of US$155 million equivalent will provide 45.4 percent of the total estimated
program financing requirement of US$341.2 million. GOI agencies will finance an estimated US$186.2
million, made up of US$102.6 million from local government normal revenue sources (locally derived
revenues and normal grant entitlements), US$24.6 million from  water enterprise internal funds, US$17.2
million from the provincial governments, and US$41.8 million from the central government domestic
budget. In terms of the project cost only, Bank financing will actually represent 57.0 percent of total
project cost.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
FINANCING PLAN
(incl. Incre mental O&M Costs)
Municipal Components &      PDAM Components                 Total
Implementation Support
Million Rp. Million US $   Million Rp. Million US S   Million Rp MillIon US $
Central Government       94,396.0    41 8  15 1%        0.0     0.0   0 0%     94,396.0    41 8  12 2%
Provincial Governments  38,926.1     17 2   6.2%        0.0     0.0  0.0%      38.926.1    17 2   5.0%
Local Governmrents      198,017.2    87.6  31.7%    33,826.0    15 0  23.1%    231,843.2    102.6  301%
(of which for Incremental O&M) (50,364.8)    (22.3)  (8.1%)
PDAMs                       0.0       0 0   00%     55,682.5    24.6  38.0%    55,682 5     24 6   7.2%
(of which for Incremental O&M)                     (44.554 2)   (19 7) (30.4%)
IBRD                    293,365.4    1298  47.0%    56,9346    25.2  38.9%    350,300.0    1550  45.4%
Total Financing         624.704,    276A  100.0%    146A43.1    6418 100.0%    771,147.,    341.2 100.0%
4.29    Onlending. An estimated US$29.3 million (19 percent) of the total Bank Loan will be onlent by
the central government to local governments and water enterprises under subsidiary loan agreements
(SLA). The sub-loans will carry a fixed interest rate of 11.75 percent (the current local rate fixed by MOF
for all borrowings by local governments and their enterprises); and a commitment fee nominally of 0.75
percent, which will be reduced to the same concessionary level as applies from time to time to the Bank
Loan (currently 0.25 percent). The loan periods will be consistent with the average economic life of the
investments being financed, subject to a maximum of 20 years. Grace periods will be allowed equal to the
procurement/commissioning periods for the investments, to a maximum of five years. Local governments
will in all cases be required to pay interest during the grace periods. The foreign exchange and interest rate
variation risks will be borne by GOI. For water enterprises, deferment of payment of interest during the
grace period will be allowed in cases where the financial capacity analysis shows that an enterprise cannot
afford such interest payment; deferred interest will be compounded and added to the loan principal. MOF
has established a minimum sub-loan size of Rp.250 million. The total amount onlent may be adjusted
during project implementation based on need and financial capabilities of the local entities. Agreement on
revised standard SLA documents for local governments and participating water enterprises respectively
was reached at Loan negotiations.



23
4.30   Central Government Budgetary Contributions.  Thc central government will budget an
estimated Rp.195.0 billion (US$84.8 million) for Project investment; an estimated Rp.109.1 billion
(US$47.4 million) of this amount will be financed by the Bank. It will further budget an estimated total
Rp.158.0 billion (US$68.6 million) as non-repayable (grant) contributions for the finance of Project
responsibilities of lower level government institutions. This amount can be divided into two elements. The
first element, estimated at Rp.96.9 billion (US$42.1 million) represents investments, engineering design and
technical assistance contracts planned to be implemented by the local government agencies. The second
element, estimated at Rp.61.0 billion (US$26.5 million) represents investments, engineering design and
technical assistance contracts planned by the provincial governments.



24
5.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.1    The proposed project will be implemented over a period of five years, commencing GOI
FY1996/1997, and ending in FY2000/2001. The program of works has been designed to commence
implementation immediately after the loan becomes effective. Design requirements for the first year
components are limited (the selected components are small and simple) and designs are being completed in
time for tendering and implementation later during the fiscal year: most of the designs for the second year
will be completed by the current preparation consultants before the cnd of 1996.
5.2    Standard tender and contract documents for the various types of packages will be used. For the
sake of consistency, the standard procurement documents prepared for the Second l.ast Java (Jrban
Development Project have been adapted for this project and were agreed during Loan negotiations so
that they can be approved, and their implementation can commence in the next GOI fiscal year.
5.3    Since design and supervision services will be needed soon after the loan is approved, appropriate
arrangements for their selection and mobilization have been made. Draft terms of reference for the high
priority design and supervision services have already been prepared, and shortlisting and proposal
invitation for these services will be commenced immediately following negotiations. Submission to the
Bank offinalized terms of reference and consultants shortlist, acceptable to the Bank, for the agreed
priority implementation support was a condition of Board presentation. Detailed engineering design
(DED) and supervision will be organized and managed on a provincial basis and coordinated by the
provincial-level implementation support team. DED and supervision will be provided on an as-needed
basis to participating local governments; it is expected that only more complex designs, studies and
supervision assignments will be carried out by consultants, and that basic engineering work will be done in-
house by the local governments and PDAM as is the current practice. The implementation schedule and
annual program cycle are graphically summarized in Annex 11.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
5.4    Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM). The four Sulawesi Provinces have
been designated by GOI as the principal implementing agencies for the implementation of the proposed
project. For central GO] operational and technical coordination and oversight the DGCK will be the
executing agency, while the TKPP chaired by BAPPENAS is providing policy guidance and sectoral
oversight. As such local leadership arrangements have not been previously attempted, except in the
metropolitan cities and currently being also proposed for East Java Province, all parties involved have
agreed to prepare a 'Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM)" which will document the
respective roles, responsibilities and procedures for project implementation, in the form of a memorandum
of understanding to be signed by the Chairperson of TKPP, the Director General of Cipta Karya and the
Governor of the respective province in Sulawesi. Annex 12A displays a draft outline for the PPIM
memorandum. Agreement on draft of the PPIM was reached during negotiations. Signature of the final
PPIM is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
5.5    Annual Program Implementation Plan (APIP). APIPs will be drawn up between the respective
Province, the local governments participating in the project and their PDAMs to confirm the essential
understandings and commitments based upon the medium-term expenditure programs (PJMs), financing
plans, RIAPs, LIDAPs, performance indicators, and sound criteria for land acquisition and resettlement.
These will be expressed as priority targets and performance indicators for each implementing unit (See



25
Annex 5). Through the APIPs, the local governments and their PDAMs would commit thcmiisclvcs to
comprehensive sectoral investment programs (including O&M budgets), specific revenue targets. and
measures to strengthen the institutional capabilities for urban management. The investment and sector
plans will be amended/updated annually, and a draft presented during the Annual Impleimccntation Review
meetings arranged with the main Bank supervision mission, to reflect changing conditionis during projcct
implementation - the annual review will also reward good performance with additional investmclts, and
will cut back finding wvhere achievement of targets is lowv. All ma jor amendmcnt proposals should include
an environmental assessment, a managcment and monitoring plan and. if nccessarv. a rcsettlmcncilt plan An
outline of the APIP is presented in Annex 12B. T'he model All'l. to be executiedl hctuen the respective
provincial governments and partlicipating local governments ancd PDAMs was reviwved and aigreel at
negotiations.  The first executed API' document, capproved hbi the Bank, arc Lutd/i/lwn  of Loan
disbuirsement for goods and works under subprojects for each participating local goverrnent aind
PDAM.
5.6    Subproject Approval. The subproject definition, budgeting and supervision arrangements for the
implementation of the Project will be summarized for provincial review and approval in a set of annual
'Project Memoranda" prepared by each participating local government and PDAiM ancl approvcd by the
PPMU. These Project Memoranda will provide detailed budget proposals for cvcr subprojcct, covering
all concerned institutions at every government level (including the w\ater enterprises). sho\ing cach contract
package, necessary O&M  provisions, etc., with the proposed financing sourccs.  'I'lh  draft Projcct
Memoranda will form the inputs into the annual budget preparation cyclc wvhich commncrics \%1th the local
and provincial level consultation meetings known as 'RAKORBANG"' through which  thc nccessary
funding allocations will be secured. Each subproject memorandum will require the certiticationi of the
provincial government that it conforms with the relevant local government appraised progr-atml (PIM).
Newly identified subprojects for financing under the programmatic provisions of the loan or chanigcs in
subproject proposals must be notified to the provincial government which will coonduct a program
reappraisal and report approved changes to the Bank. Supporting documcntation, including cnvironmcntal
impact screening results and resettlement action plan (RAP) documents, where nceded, must bc attachcd to
each subproject memorandum and the RAP submitted to the Bank for approval. D)ctailcd and costed
investments proposals are available in each community's five year PJM  (see Prolcct Filc).  Many
investments are still of a programmatic approach, and investments will be agrced to and jtustified
throughout project implementation according to the following agreed main Projcct critcria: (i) tcclhnical
standards, guidelines and criteria; (ii) minimum EIRR of 12% for any water supply drainage and flood
control subproject estimated to cost Rp.2 billion or more; (iii) resettlement action plan for anx subprocct
involving the involuntary resettlement of people; and (iv) complction of environmelntal management and
monitoring requirements.
C. LOCAL IMPLEMENT1NG AGENCIES
5.7    The existing agencies at the municipal level will be responsible for implementingl the projcct and
can be summarized as follows:
(a) Operations and Maintenance. A technical team wvill be establishcd to provide teclnical
support (planning, programming, budgeting, controlling, evaluating and rcporting) at the
municipal level to strengthen the O&M program for roads, water supply, drainage and solid
waste. The project will provide support to identify the necds for better O&M performance,
additional O&M staff, additional equipment and training;



26
(b) Urban Roads and Traffic Management. The Roads and Bridges section of DPUK is
responsible for the construction, maintenance and supervision of local roads, roadside drains
and bridges.  Provincial and national roads are the responsibility of the provincial and
national governments respectively. Consulting support is being provided under the project to
design in detail, evaluate and implement individual road rehabilitation, improvement or new
construction schemes.
(c) Water Supply. The PDAMs will be responsible for construction, operation and maintenance
of the water supply assets generated by the project. Special attention will be given to control
of UFW. PDAMs are being required to reduce leakage, eliminate illegal connections and
maximize utilization of their current system, before proposing to increasc treatment capacity
further. In-fill house connections on existing distribution mains will be given priority over
new distribution system extensions. Consultant support for implementation of PDAM plans
and physical improvements is provided in the project design;
(d) Drainage and Flood Control. At the municipal level, the drainage sub-section of each
DPUK has specific rcsponsibility for storm drainagc and flood control within the municipal
area. Designated major watenvays are the rcsponsibility of provincial or central Pengairan
offices, but all local drainage works must be executed by DPUK. O&M performance will be
strengthened through the implementation support;
(e) Human Waste Disposal. The on-site sanitation program in all cities will be implemented by
the local government with the community using municipal staff (BANGDES) as project
mangers.  Sludge collection and disposal services will be provided by the Cleansing
Department (Dinas Kebersihan - see below) in each local government, but efforts wvill be
made as much as possible to contract out these services to private operators under the
supervision of the municipal agency;
(f) Solid Waste Management. Dinas Kebersihan (Cleansing Agency) or DPUK in all the
municipalities will bc responsible for all solid waste management activities;
(g) KIP. DPUK in each local governrnent also will be responsible for implementing KIP.
Consultant services, where needed, providing technical assistance on the financial, economic,
institutional and environmental aspects, will be located in the Dinas; and
(h) MIIP. Where it exists, the market agency in each local government (Dinas Pengelola Pasar)
will be responsible for implementing the MIIP component of the project. In all other cases,
implementation will fall directly on the local DPUK.
D. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING
5.8    Provincial Government Responsibilities. Each provincial government will play a key role in the
overall management, coordination and monitoring of the project, including the management of the
implementation support team. Based on experience from the ongoing SIJUDP, the local (Tkll) level is
rather isolated and disconnected from the provincial and central levels for monitoring and support. Under
the proposed project, this problem will be remedied by establishing a single functional organization, the
Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU), in each of the Provincial Offices of Public Works (DPUP I)
for the overall management of the project, including support, coordination, monitoring and reporting. A
key responsibility of the PPMU will be to issue guidelines for the preparation of APIPs, ensure that they



27
are prepared on time, and review the APIPs in coordination with BAPPEDA Tk I and the Kanwil PU.
PPMU will also develop and issue standard operating procedures for program implementation. The
updated functions and organization of the PPMU will be confirmcd by a decree of the provincial Governor
as a condition of disbursement. The PPMU will have strong leadcrship, through a full-time Unit manager
(Kepala PPMU) and an adequate budget. The implementation support team will be attached to the PPMU.
Annex 13 shows the proposed organization structure of the PPMU within the provincial government and
how it relates to the contract and to the local governments. Receipt of docuimentary evidence satisfacltory
to the Bank confirming the establishment of the PPMAU is a condition of Loan disbursement for goods
and works in each province.
5.9    Technical coordination will be carried out by thc provincial Dinas in their respective areas of
responsibility and project implementation units for the execution of subprojects (projcct implementation
units will be set up as needed); however, the Kanwil PU will coordinate centrally fuinded sectoral programs.
The Secretary to Governor (Sekwilda 1) will be responsible for overall coordination of implementation.
The PPMU will work closely with BAPPEDA Tk I. Dinas PU Cipta Karva, Bina Marga, the Sekwilda 1,
and the Kanwil PU. and these technical agencies will designate staff to function as a Technical
Coordination Team as shown in Annex 13.
5.10   Local Government Responsibilities. Local governments participating in the project will have
primary responsibility for project implementation and monitoring of all project-related activities in their
jurisdiction. A Local Coordination Team (Tim Koordinasi Tk 11) will be formalized and continued from
the preparation phase in each local government, with the Bupati/Walikota as the chair and the heads of all
departments involved as members. Programming and planning functions will be under the overall charge of
the local planning agency (BAPPEDA 11), in the section for physical infrastructure (Bidang Prasarana
Fisik). Local project management and coordination will be under the Program Managcment Unit (PMU)
which will be established in the Dinas PU. A project coordinator will be assigned for day-to-day activities,
and will be provided with an adequate budget; the project coordinator will be named in the APIP document.
Line agencies (both local and deconcentrated units of central agencies, as appropriate) will be responsible
for implementing their designated subproject components through project implementation units. Consistent
with Indonesian government practice, each implementing agency will appoint subproject managers with an
appropriate supervision budget.
5.11   The Secretary to the Bupati/Walikota (Sekwilda II) will have overall responsibility for
coordinating and reporting on all project-related activities (whether handled bv the local government
agencies or by the deconcentrated provincial or central agencies). The project coordinator, will compile
and distribute periodic consolidated progress reports, covering all sectors, with information on both
physical and financial progress, based on data provided by the subproject managers. The Finance Section
of the Secretary's Department will maintain up-to-date accounting information on the project using the
Project Accounting and Monitoring System (PFAMS) where available, alternatively, arrangements will be
made under the project to install the necessary project accounting systems. Issuance of a local government
instruction letter (SK Walikota/Bupati) clearly establishing the above roles and functions in the
appropriate local units will be incluided in the APIP actions for each local government.
5.12   Central Government Responsibilities. DGCK in MPW. as the central executing agency, will be
responsible for the overall technical supervision and management of the project. DGCK will delegate
responsibility for the day-to-day management and monitoring of this project to the respective Sulawesi
Provinces through the establishment of the agreed standard operating procedures, the Kanwil PU, which is
the regional office of the central MPW in the province, will work closely with the provincial agencies on
behalf of DGCK. However, in view of the limited IUDP implementation experience in Sulawesi and based



28
on the need for capacity building, a small Central Support Team would be established under DGCK,
Directorate for Implementation (East), to be set up in a strategic location in Sulawesi, and will provide
overall coordination, liaison, consistency and quality assurance, as well as support for special initiatives
and programs, in particular for environmental management, community participation, and private sector
involvement. The TKPP, which has been established for coordinating and monitoring all IUIDP/IUDP
projects, will be responsible for overall policy coordination and guidance.
5.13   The Directorate General for Budget in the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for managing the
project's special account. Lead responsibility for the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) will be assumed
by the Directorate General for Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance. At Loan negotiations,
revised standard SLAs documents for local governments, and participating water enterprises
respectively, were agreed between GOI and the Bank. Signed SlIA documents for all disbursements and
for each participating local government and/or PDAM, the first SLA approved by the Bank are a
condition of Loan disbuirsement for goods and works in that local jurisdiction.
E. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
5.14   Procurement of works and goods will follow the 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits"dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996. Goods contracts costing US$200,000
or more would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using the
Bank's standard bidding documents. All consultant services under the Bank loan would be procured in
accordance with the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" dated August 1981 by the responsible agency for each contract. Domestic
preference may be provided during bid evaluation at a rate of 15% of the CIF pricc or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower, for local goods manufacturers participating in the ICB procurement of
goods. A general procurement notice was issued following negotiations to notify any eligible and interested
agencies, businesses and individuals.  However, with the exception of some contract packages of
specialized vehicles and equipment for waste management, essentially all procurement anticipated for
project implementation will be relatively small civil works contracts under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures agreed between GOI and the Bank. Civil works contracts, all of which are valued at
less than US$3 million up to an aggregate amount of US$183.3 million, and goods contracts valued at less
than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$11.6 million would be procured by the designated
subproject implementing agency under national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Goods contracts for less than US$50,000 each up to an aggregate total of US$3.0 million in each
category, may be procured through national shopping (with at least three quotations). Small works
contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$9.6 million may be procured under lump sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of three
qualified local bids (national shopping). Use of the Bank's 1995 Procurement Guidelines (revised on
January 1996) was confirmed at negotiations.
5.15   Procurement Review. Civil works contracts of US$1 million equivalent or more in value, goods
contracts of US$200,000 equivalent or more in value, and consultant services with an estimated value of
US$ 100,000 or more for engagement of firms and $50,000 or more for the hiring of individual consultants,
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank's standard Form of Contract for Consultants'
Services, dated June 1995 will be used. The first contract for civil works and goods for each implementing
agency would be subject to prior review by the Bank, to assure use of standard procedures and contract
formats (see also para 5.19). The balance of contracts for goods and civil works, including those
reimbursed under statements of expenditure (SOE), would be subject to selective post-review by the Bank.
Contractors for civil works exceeding US$1 million in value would be pre-qualified in accordance with



29
Indonesian national procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of reference as well as single-source
selections for all consulting services, including detailed engineering design and supervision, studies and
other technical assistance, regardless of the value of the contract would also be subject to prior Bank
review. Prior review by the Bank is expected to cover approximately 30% of the total value of contracts
financed by the project. This relatively low review coverage will be compensated for by: (a) use of
standardized bidding documents; (b) prior review of each different type of contract (road works, drainage)
since there are numerous contracts of similar nature; and (c) systcmatic post-review by Bank staff during
supervision.
5.16   Procurement Design. Where technically feasible and administratively practical, sub-projects will
be combined to form larger tenders. Procurement of physical components will be kept separate for each
agency (central and local govermments, PDAMs) to avoid administrative delays and complex payment
procedures. Similarly, procurement has been kept separate for each sector (roads, drainage, etc.) as each
contract would be administered by a different agency. Consulting services will be combined wherever
feasible (e.g. design and supervision, support services, studies, ctc.). Table 5.1 below summarizes the
procurement arrangements.
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category             ICB       NCB   Other a/  N.B.F. b/ Total Cost
Civil Works                               0.0      183.3       9.8       19.3    212.3
(0. 0)   (103.9)    (5.5)             (109.4)
Goods                                     11.8      11.6       3.1        1.4     27.9
(11.8)    (11.6)     (3.0)              (26.4)
Engineering Services                                           9.8                 9.8
(9.8)              (9.8)
Training                                                       2.0                 2.0
(2.0)              (2.0)
Implementation Support Services                                9.4                 9.4
(7.5)              (7.5)
Taxes & Duties                                                           10.6     10.6
Total Project Cost                        11.8     194.9      34.0       31 3    272.0
(11.8)   (115.4)    (27.9)             (155.0)
Land                                                                      7.6      7.6
Studies                                                                   2.9      2.9
Local Management & Administration                                         9.2      9.2
Incremental O&M                                                          49.6     49.6
Total Proaram Cost                       11.8      194.9      34.0      100.6    341.2
(11.8)    (115.4)    (27.9)            (155.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IBRD.
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
a/ Includes national shopping and selection of consultants following IBRD guidelines.
b/ Not Bank-financed.



30
5.17     Disbursements. IBRD loan disbursements will be made at the following rates for the various main
expenditure categories as detailed in Table 5.2 below: (a) civil wvorks and goods including specialized
vehicles for sub-projects under the SLAs - 90 percent of costs; (b) other civil works - 45 percent of total
costs; (c) other goods including specialized vehicles - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65% of other items procured locally; (d) consultants services for
engineering and training (100%) of total costs (under provincial and local contracts) and for
implementation support, 80% of costs. The estimated Bank disbursements by Bank fiscal year are given in
Table 5.3.
Table 5.2: DISBURSEMENTS
Category                               Loan Amount               Disbursement Percentages
1) Civil works for Sub- projects financed
under SLAs:                                                      90%
(a) North Sulawesi                      3,300,000
(b) Central Sulawesi                    4,600,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                 5,000,000
(d) South Sulawesi                     13,300,000
2) Other Civil Works:                                            45%
(a) North Sulawesi                     1 1,200,000
(b) Central Sulawesi                    6,300,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                11,900,000
(d) South Sulawesi                     44,900,000
3) Goods for Sub-projects, including
specialized vehicles, financed under SLAs:
90%
(a) North Sulawesi
(b) Central Sulawesi                     300,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                  400,000
(d) South Sulawesi                       300,000
2,100,000
4) Other goods, including specialized                            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
vehicles:                                                        (ex-factory cost) and 65% of other items procured locally
(a) North Sulawesi                      2,500,000
(b) Central Sulawesi                    1,700,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                 1,500,000
(d) South Sulawesi                     15,000,000
5) Engineering Services:                                         100%
(a) North Sulawesi                      1,400,000
(b) Central Sulawesi                    1,400,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                 1,400,000
(d) South Sulawesi                      5,600,000
6) Training:                                                     100%
(a) North Sulawesi                       300,000
(b) Central Sulawesi                     300,000
(c) South-East Sulawesi                  300,000
(d) South Sulawesi                      1,100,000
7) Implementation Support               7,500,000                80% a/
Services
8) Unallocated                         11,400,000
Total                                  155,000,000
Note: a/ Implemented and managed by central government agencies.



31
Table 5.3: ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS BY FY
(US$Million)
1997        1998        1999        2000         2001
Annual       7,440,000    44,950,000    50,380,000   29,760,000    22,470,000
Cumulative    7,440,000    52,390,000   102,770,000   132,530,000   155,000,000
5.18  In order to facilitate disbursements, GOI would establish a Special Account with an initial
allocation of US$10.0 million in Bank Indonesia. This account should be maintained by the Director
General of Budget in the Ministry of Finance. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign
and local expenditures. Replenishment of the Special Account will be made on a monthly basis, or when
20 percent of the Special Account balance has been used, whichever comes first. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Director General for Bud,get will authorize all disbursements to
contractors from the Special Account to be made through the KPKN Treasury offices at the sub-
provincial level (with the exception of any centrally managed technical assistance contracts).
5.19   Disbursements from  the Loan for the following contracts would be made against full
documentation: (a) civil works contracts valued at more than US$1 million; (b) goods contracts valued at
or more than US$200,000; and (c) consultant services contracts with individual consultants valued at more
than US$50,000 and consulting firm  contracts valued at or more than US$100,000.  All other
disbursements, including first contracts for goods and works by implementing agencies, would be made
against SOE for which relevant documents would be retained by the MOF Directorate General for Budget
Administration and the implementing agencies and made available to the Bank for review upon request. To
facilitate project implementation SOE procedures will be used, regardless of prior review limits.
5.20   The proposed disbursement period of five years is somewhat less than the disbursement profile of
IUIDP projects in Indonesia. However, as this project has been prepared taking into account the start-up
problems encountered in earlier projects, and because of the steps taken to provide strong implementation
support to expedite project execution, it is considered achievable. The project completion date is June 30,
2001, and the loan closing date is December 31, 2001. The estimated schedule of quarterly disbursements
is shown in Annex 14.
F. PROJECT ACCOUNT AND AUDITS
5.21   Prime responsibility for the maintenance of consolidated accounts of expenditures and financing
sources for all project components at every government level and concerned institution (including the water
enterprises) will be delegated to the provincial and local governments, which will employ, for this purpose,
to the extent available, an improved version of the Program Financial Accounting and Monitoring System
(PFAMS) originally developed under the East Java-Bali Urban Development Project. For each local
government program (including that of its water enterprise) the Project accounting will be the responsibility
of the structural finance agency within the local government secretariat (Dinas Bagian Keuangan).
Responsibility for maintaining the consolidated project accounts and the production of consolidated
financial reports will be undertaken by the structural finance bureau within the provincial government
secretariat.
5.22   Assurances were obtained from GOI at negotiations that the consolidated project accounts,
including the Special Account and SOE, as well as the overall accounts of the participating PDAMs, will



32
be audited annually by independent auditors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that the audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year,
commencing GOI FY9619 7.
G. PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORING AND BANK SUPERVISION
5.23   Quarterly progress reports will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by PPMU with assistance
from DGCK on the basis of inputs from the various central, provincial, kabupaten, and kotamadya
implementing agencies. The reports will focus on the targets and performance indicators established in the
PPIP and APIP for each local government (see Annecx 5) and will include an overall program summary,
covering progress on:
(a) physical progress of each component;
(b) institutional development (LIDAP) and revenue improvement (RIAP) action plans.
(c) consulting services;
(d) compliance with loan covenants;
(e) administration and finance, including project costs commitment and disbursement schedule;
and
(f) a list of actions to be taken by the various parties.
The progress report's substance, including indicators and the format will be discussed at the workshop for
the project launch, scheduled for October/November 1996.
5.24   Quarterly progress reports will be submitted within 30 days from the end of each quarter, starting
with the quarter ending in December 1996. On completion of the proposed project, the DGCK together
with PPMU and the participating kabupatens and kotamadyas will prepare an Implementation Completion
Report within six months after the loan closing date for review by GOI and the Bank.
5.25   Annual technical audits will also be carried out over the course of project implementation.
Assurances were obtained from GOI during negotiations that the Provincial Inspectorate General (It.
Wil Prop) will carry out annual technical audits during project implementation. Limited technical
assistance as needed will be provided through the Provincial Implementation Support Teams to enhance the
capabilities of the Provincial Inspectorate General under the project.
5.26   The project will require approximately 29 staff weeks of Bank supervision for FY97, 25 for FY98,
14 for FY99, 15 for FY00, 17 for FY01, and 9 for FY02. Supervision missions will include engineering,
institutional, financial, environmental and resettlement expertise. Typically, two Bank supervision missions
per year are planned, one from headquarters to conduct the annual review (October) and spot-check local
implementation progress and capacity development, and the second to check GOI fiscal year program
status (March/April) and general implementation performance in the field. These proposed arrangements
and schedules for project launch work-shops (November 1996), as well as for project supervision
(March/April annually) and annual review (by October 31) were confirmed with GOI at negotiations (see
Annex 15).



33
H. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
5.27   Expenditure programs for the municipalities and PDAMs include O&M budgets in every subsector
in accordance with IUIDP guidelines. Current O&M expenditures and incremental O&M expenditures (to
reach necessary levels and expand coverage) are clearly separated. Adequate budgeting for current and
incremental O&M is an important objective of this project; domestic budget sourccs will fully fund O&M
to ensure sustainability of the increased level under the project  Through the implementation support
component, advice and training would be providcd under the project to continue improvements in
maintenance practices. During negotiations agreement was reached that GOI will monitor the level and
quality O&M expenditures of the local governments and participating PDAMs for each year as well as
the proposed O&M budget for the following year and discuss with the Bank as a component of the
annual review.
1. LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
5.28   Over the last year, the province of East Java has attempted to resolve the differences and gaps
between KEPRES 55/1993 and Bank Operational Dircctive 4.30. both dealing with land acquisition and
resettlement practices, and to develop a model provincial policy framework to provide operational guidance
to local governments on land acquisition, resettlement and compensation needed for projcct implementation.
The four Sulawesi provinces have reviewed the East Java model and, on its basis, have prepared draft
Governor's Decrees issuing Resettlement Guidelines and implementation instructions, and sample local
government (kotamadya/kabupaten) decrees for preparation of subproject RAPs in accordance with the
Guidelines have been agreed in principle with the provincial governments.  Model drafts of these
documents were reviewed during negotiations. Finalization of the Governor's Decrees on resettlement
including implementation guidelines and model Bupati/ Walikotamadya Decrees on resettlement, taking
into account the agreements reached at negotiations, and submission to the Bank of the signed Decrees
was a condition of Board presentation.
5.29   The preparation process for the proposed project has included efforts both to avoid or minimize
land acquisition, and especially resettlement, needed for the subprojects, and only one resettlement scheme
requiring a full RAP for about 220 affected families is being proposed for implementation; the RAP for
Luwuk has been completed and was subsequently reviewed and is still subject to final Bank review for
compliance with the agreed resettlement framework. The RAP has proposed a resettlement area about 7
km northeast of town; infrastructure and services w,ill be provided in addition to replacement plots and
housing. Special emphasis will be given by the local government to mitigating the economic and social
impacts of this resettlement.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.30   Impacts. The proposed project has been classified as environmental category "B" under the
Bank's procedures, as the negative impacts are expected to be minor. The project will likely produce an
overall net positive environmental impact. The water supply component will improve the availability of
clean drinking water. Under the solid waste management subcomponent, solid waste dumping and
accumulation will be reduced and sites will be developed as sanitary landfill sites; treatment facilities will
minimize leachate and runoff as needed. The sanitation component will improve the urban environment
with improved wastewater and sludge treatment facilities resulting in reduced health risks from
contaminated water. Improvements of drainage canals will help reduce the frequent flooding, and lessen
the potential for ponding of polluted water where malaria and dengue-carrying mosquitoes might breed.



34
5.31   Environmental Procedures. Using the new GOI regulations for environmental assessment
(AMDAL) promulgated in 1993 and 1994, a Regional Environmenital Assessment was carried out during
preparation of the proposed project (see Annex 16 for a summarv). Regional environmental assessment
completed for the first 18 project towns clearly found that the most intractable environmental issues are
common and widc-spread within all communities. Follow-up investigations for the second batch of 24
towns reinforced thesc initial findings. Therefore the proposed projcct has a two tiered approach to
environmental issues.
5.32   The first tier of interventions is to followv and strengthen the existing GOI environmental legislation
and safeguards. The GOI has in place "umbrella" environmental legislation goveming the environmental
assessment process (AMDAL). Within this framework. Indonesia has two complementary environmental
tools: UKL (environmental managemcnt plans) and UPL (environmental monitoring plans).
5.33   UKL/UPL Preparation and Review. UKL/UPL for subprojects are to be prepared and reviewed
as part of subproject approval (Project Memoranda). with particular attention paid to whether the
management and monitoring measures are included in subproject design and tender documents. During
project implementation, UKL/UPL review will be the responsibility of technical agencics in the provincial
government, coordinated by the implementation support teams. The review should include screening of any
proposed project sites not already screened when the PJMs wcre originally preparcd. especially for final
TPAs to ensure that they are located in suitable areas. Approval of the UKL/UPL by the support teams
and concerned provincial agencies, would be a prerequisitc for subproject approval.
5.34   The regional EA, which has been cited as a best-practice example, clearly highlights that adherence
to GOI environmental legislation will not be enough to achieve the desired improvements to local
environments. This "second tier" of environmental intervention is mostly a question of changing people's
attitudes - those of the decision makers as much as those of the public - through increascd awareness and
better understanding of the health and economic benefits of a cleaner urban environment for all income
groups. Many environmental problems are generic across Sulawcsi; they will not be remedied through
legislation. Rather, changes to attitudes, and more importantly, relatively minor, but ongoing and
consistent changes to 'day-to-day' municipal activities need to be cncouraged as well as a broader, more
cooperative approach, e.g. protection of a shared watershed. The regional environmental assessment lays
out a strategy to accomplish this, and will be a main focus of supcrvision activities.



35
6.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. FINANCIAL ASPECTS (LOCAL GOVERNMENTS AND PDAM)
6.1    Local Government Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery.  The financial situation of local
governments has been examined and action plans for revenue improvement by local governments have been
prepared during the project preparation. The share of locally generated revenue which is under the direct
control of the local governments is rather small, ranging from 8 to 31% of total local government revenues;
the median share for the Sulawesi local governments is 15%. The projected growth of locally generated
revenue is based on the analysis of the past five years' performance. Revenue increases ranged from 8 to
37% (compound annual rate) and average 19% for all 17 local governnents analyzed in detail, indicating
significant real revenue growth after allowing for inflation (see Annex 17). Although revenues are still
below their potential, such largc increments may be more difficult to obtain in the future. Therefore,
revenue growth has been projected more conservatively.  The project design limits the total project
investment to a level which the local governrment can afford to counterpart with their own-source revenues
and INPRES (Presidential instruction including a class of GOI grants) grant entitlements after meeting
O&M requirements. In accordance with GOI policies, the project at the samc time enhances and
encourages use of local government and PDAM borrowing capacities, based on the revenue improvements
scheduled in the RlAPs for the proposed project.  Local governments generally borrow for revenue
generating investments only, i.e. solid waste collection. sanitation. markets and terminal, for all of which
user charges are collected. MHA has set a minimum Debt Coverage Ratio of 1:5 which is easily
achievable by almost all local governments for the modest borrowing they are willing to undertake (see also
Annex 17). Full direct cost recovery for the sanitation and solid waste subsectors remains problematic;
however for new markets and transport terminals full cost recovery (debt service, O&M) is feasiblc and has
been established.
6.2    PDAM Financial Condition. The majority of the 40 PDAMs in Sulawesi are in a relatively weak
financial condition. Only in a few cases (e.g. Bitung. Luwxuk and Sungguminesa) do water tariff revenues
cover operational costs and depreciation, and in some PDAMs revenues are currently insufficient to fully
support O&M expenditure needs. These problems arise mainly from a combination of: (a) inherited sub-
optimally designed and located systems serving extended areas with low connections demand and/or
coverage causing high unit operating costs; (b) often high staff/connections ratios and administration costs
and overheads; (c) poor maintenance and high physical and "administrative" water losses; and (d)
infrequent and inadequate tariff adjustments.
6.3    Water Tariffs. Many PDAMs includcd in the Project have made tariff increases in 1995 or 1996.
the other plan increases by September 1997; and the increases range between 15 and 50 percent. Further
substantial real tariff increases of Up to 50% will be made by 1999 to approach (or where feasible reach
and maintain) full coverage of O&M costs and depreciation charges. The adequacy of tariff levels in each
participating PDAM will be annually reviewed with assistance from DGCK as needed, and realistic
forecasts prepared detailing rcquired tariff adjustments. Results of this process would be an important
component of the annual review of the project. Assurances were obtained duiring Loan negotianons that
tariff adjustments necessary to mcet the agreed financial viabilitv criteria will be completed on or befbre
September 30, 1997 and ever)' two years thereafter.
6.4    Water Supply Investment Finance. PDAM  investment programs wvill be financed by internal
cash generation, SLA borrowing to the extent feasible oni the basis of PDAM financial capacity projections,
and the balance of the needed investmernts for which borrowing is not feasible will be financed through



36
Ministry of Public Works sectoral DIP allocations as central government equity, partly funded by the
Bank. The agreed subprojects are generally designed to complete system development or rehabilitate
systems which were prematurely converted to enterprise status by GOI. Annex 18 gives more details on
the financial/economic analysis of water supply programs.
6.5    Classification of PDAM.  Based on the iterative financial analysis of the 38 water supply
programs proposed by PDAM in Sulawesi, three different categories of PDAM can be differentiated:
(a)   thirteen medium to large PDAM with investment programs ranging from Rp. 4 to 8.5
billion which can cover O&M and depreciation, with financial internal rate of return from
13 to 23% based on a detailed (FINPRO) financial analysis;
(b)    about 15 mostly medium-sized and some smaller PDAM  with investment programs
between about Rp.2.0 and 4.0 billion which can only meet incremental O&M, and require
substantive tariff increases (up to 50% in years two and four) to remain viable; and
(c)    some twelve mostly smaller (plus some less efficient medium-size) PDAM with investment
programs ranging from Rp. 600 million to 2 billion which show marginal FIRR (between 8
and 11%) but requiring more substantial tariff increases which may make water less
affordable to lower income households, thereby depressing demand. Since their borrowing
capacity is very limited, central government equity will be provided for basic system
improvements.
B. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.6    Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy and Sector Strategy. As discussed earlier in Sections
11 and IV, the IUIDP implemented under the East Java/Bali Urban Development Project, SIJUDP and other
urban development projects represented a significant turning point in the Bank's CAS in general, and its
urban sector strategy in particular. Establishing the operational feasibility of working with a large number
of local governments, while utilizing the provincial government as an intermediary program manager, has
given new practical scope to several of the themes emphasized in the current CAS, including the need to
improve public services and productivity, to enhance local government responsibility and capacity, and to
strengthen environment management. The proposed project design continues and broadens the IUIDP
decentralization successes and reflects the current CAS emphasis through provision of resources for urban
infrastructure investments, supporting both sectoral and integrated implementation approaches as
appropriate, strengthening local government institutions for urban management, promoting decentralization
of responsibility for project planning and implementation, and incorporating environmental considerations
in urban development. The project also incorporates the pilot development of provincial frameworks for
land acquisition and resettlement guidelines which address an identified problem area in project
implementation.
6.7    Prioritization. Consideration of alternatives, including location of facilities, technology to be
employed, and prioritization of identified subprojects within a local government jurisdiction, are all
required by the sub-sectoral Technical Memoranda issued by GOI for preparation of IUIDP proposals by
local governments. (See Annex 19 for summary of sub-sectoral criteria). In accordance with these agreed
procedures, alternatives analysis was carried out using varying techniques depending on the sub-sector and
size of proposed investment (e.g. through standard cost-benefits analysis for large subprojects in water
supply, urban road and drainage subsectors; least-cost alternative analysis for subprojects in solid waste
management, human waste/sanitation, kampung improvement programs and market infrastructure



37
improvement programs; and simple prioritization of extensions to service coverage from existing systems
based on population served, poverty conditions, and related criteria for smaller subprojects). While
government involvement in urban infrastructure development is overall justified because of the strong
environmental, health and social externalities present in the provision of basic urban infrastructure services,
identification of opportunities for participation by the private sector as well as local community in project
design and implementation will be specifically included in each local government PJM and encouraged
wherever appropriate.
6.8    Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Since the proposed project provides investments
in up to seven sectors of urban infrastructure services in 40 local governments, it was necessary to develop
a structured approach to economic analysis. Subprojects are classified according to investment costs, i.e.
small (less than Rp.600 million in constant 1994 prices), medium (between Rp.600 million and Rp.3
billion) and large (over Rp.3 billion). Small subprojects must comply with the agreed planning and design
criteria and their economic viability is presumed based on evaluation of similar subprojects implemented
under previous operations and the demonstrated affordability of the technical standards adopted. Medium
size subprojects are subject to a simplified economic analysis, utilizing thresholds to select investznent
options, a sampling of which is reviewed by the Bank. Large subprojects must go through a more rigorous
economic feasibility analysis, with all assumptions and methodology subject to Bank review on a case by
case basis. Serious efforts were made by GOI and their preparation consultants to screen and analyze the
proposed subprojects using sound technical, financial and economic criteria. This scrutiny went through a
further iteration involving Bank staff prior to negotiations. Cost-cffectiveness is assured by checking unit
costs against average costs (from this and previous projects), and by building to basic minimum standards
only (see Annex 18 and also 19 for more details).
6.9    Water Supply. The existing water supply systems suffer from many problems. Piped water
connection coverage is generally low, ranging from less than 20% to maximum 73%. Due to poor
maintenance and deterioration of older systems, almost all distribution and connection pipes are leaking,
causing water contamination and large water losses -- UFW of many systems is over 40% which includes
'"dministrative" causes (such as illegal connections) which are often considerable. Source supply and
reservoir capacity are also often inadequate. To address these problems, the water supply program will
improve water quality and reliability by installing secondary and tertiary distribution system extensions,
repairing old systems and treatment facilities, as needed, and providing house connections and also
standpipes. Water loss reduction programs will be undertaken in all towns with the aim to reduce the rate
of UFW  losses from  their current averages of 35-40%  to about 25%.  Storage reservoirs will be
constructed to increase system capacity, but new source development will generally be deferred unless there
is serious water shortage. The main benefits are increased availability of clean, piped water at reduced
costs. Demand surveys of current and potential users of the water supply systems were conducted in
several sample urban service areas. Some towns show low demand (either because good quality shallow
ground water is still available, or residents have lost hope for public water supply). Other systems suffer
from water shortages in many service areas and from poor water quality and high cost of alternative
sources of water. Lastly, a few systems are very high cost operations due to local constraints or possibly
poor management. Net present values (NPV) and FIRR using full FINPRO analysis was calculated for
medium and large water thirteen investment programs in excess of Rp. 4 billion. FIRR is used as a lower
bound estimate of economic rate of retum. A 12 percent rate of return is used as the minimum feasible
rate, in part key to the proposed 11.75 percent on-lending rate for subsidiary loan agreements under the
project.
6.10   Urban Roads.  Urban road transport is frustrated by a lack of a well integrated major road
networks in most towns. Moreover, most district roads are in a state of serious deterioration due to heavy



38
traffic, poor maintenance and inadequate drainage systems. In the larger cities (Ujung Pandang and
Manado in particular) traffic is congested on major roads and in the business centers, especially during
peak hours, as a result of inadequate traffic management. The urban road component of the proposed
project will provide a program of widening of major roads and bridges, rehabilitation and maintenance of
mostly district (local) roads, including improvement of drainage, curbs and sidewalks, and construction of
new road sections where important network links are missing, or to provide access to newly developed
areas. Traffic management programs will also be initiated in the larger towns. Routine and periodic
maintenance needs have been identified, and the road agencies will have maintenance budget increases to
undertake improved road maintenance. The Yellow Cover of the Roads Sector Study (Report No. 15394-
IND) clearly documents the high priority and significant rates of return of investments in urban areas for
improved accessibility, savings in vehicle operating costs and in road construction and maintenance
expenditures, and increased land and other property values. Since specific detailed traffic counts were not
available for the medium and smaller towns, the investments were selected on the basis of their importance
to complete and better integrate the local road network, to improve traffic flows and to provide better
access to residential communities or areas of economic activities. Priority in subproject selection was given
to repair and rehabilitation over new construction of roads. Network maps identifying the key links and
deficiencies have been prepared for all towns and will be in the Project File.
6.11   Solid Waste Management. Currently less than half of all solid waste generated in towns is being
collected. Collection and disposal equipment capacities fall short of fast growing demand. Much of the
existing equipment is non-operational at any point in time due to inappropriate operation and lack of
maintenance. Access roads to waste disposal sites are also inadequate. The solid waste management
component will increase collection coverage to nearly 80% and additional waste transfer depots will be
constructed and capacities of existing TPAs will be expanded and new sites developed. Collection and
disposal site equipment will be purchased and programs to improve operation and maintenance of
equipment and TPAs will be implemented.  In addition, appropriate access roads to TPAs will be
constructed. Although TPAs and collection vehicles and containers usually require the vast majority of
investment funds, the project will also focus on 'softer" complementary activities such as composting,
recycling and waste minimization.
6.12   The benefits of the solid waste management component arise from cleaner air and water as a result
of reduced burning and dumping of solid waste into rivers and drains, and improved public health by
reduction of disease-bearing pests, as well as from more efficient collection and treatment. As the benefits
are mainly health and environment related, they are difficult to quantify. The planning was based on
increasing service coverage to minimum standards while keeping rates within the (rather low) limits of
affordability and willingness to pay-based on the sample real demand surveys, and environmental/public
health necessity. The design was based on least cost alternatives. The cost recovery will gradually
improve under the project in accordance with the agreed RIAP which specifically addresses the solid waste
tariff issue in each jurisdiction, so that by the end of project implementation O&M, costs plus depreciation
will be covered by the user charges.
6.13   Human Waste/Sanitation. Sludge treatment facilities and collection equipment are inadequate
and wastewater treatment facilities simply do not exist in most towns in Sulawesi. Desludging volume
from septic tanks is commonly less than 20% of the estimated volume produced. Public awareness of the
health benefits of sludge and wastewater treatment and disposal is also lacking. The sanitation component
will provide and sludge collection treatment facilities and in assist to install or rehabilitate individual or
community on-site sanitation facilities (septic tanks) with community participation and household loan
programs. There will also be a community based sanitation education program.



39
6.14   Drainage/Flood Control. Low lying areas in many towns in Sulawesi are subject to frequent
flooding due to poor maintenance of old systems, insufficient capacity, and inappropriate designs, or in
some towns, due to irrigation channels functioning as drainage canals without the necessary modifications.
The proposed project will implement programs to improve O&M, rehabilitate drainage canals, and
normalize river banks. The benefits are reduced flood-caused damage, reduced traffic disruption, increased
land values, and improved health, especially of poor people residing in low lying and flood-prone areas.
The benefits are not easily quantifiable, but the NPV and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) have
been calculated assuming an average land value increase of 100 percent as a result of the reduced flooding.
For smaller, central areas, larger land value increases have been assumed, while 5 percent only was used
for undeveloped land. These assumptions are based on surveys which indicate land value increases of up to
500 percent following completion of town drainage schemes. The calculated EIRR range from 10 to over
100 Percent-the latter for schemes which affect relatively large developed areas. The economic analysis
resulted in the rejection of about 20 percent of all proposed schemes, and some subprojects still require
technical review because of their high unit costs per hectare of flooded area.
6.15   KIP/MIIP. The KIP component will provide basic infrastructure services including public toilets,
solid waste collection, foot path, water supply, and drainage. Market infrastructure improvements,
including improvements to superstructures, will also be provided under the project. As several recent
project audits and reviews by OED show, KIP has immediate and very positive impacts on the living
conditions (i.e., access to motor roads, water facilities, drainage. garbage collection, sanitation, lighting,
education and health facilities) of kampung residents using low cost technologies. It is further shown that
the areas surrounding the KIP sites also benefit from KIPs as the physical and economic impacts of KIPs
extend to neighboring communities. Moreover, the KIP scheme has been replicated throughout the cities,
without the Bank financing (OED Report 14747-4ND documents these findings; see previous reference in
para. 2.4). MIIP investments are also very much needed and are more than covered from municipal fees on
the vendors, who participate in deciding the improvements. Capital investments will be complemented with
market vendor and community based working groups to ensure better implementation and more appropriate
investment strategies. The vendor-based credit union in Makale is an encouraging example of this
enhanced private sector and community-based participation. Formal economic analysis is not carried out
for KIP and MIIP because of the difficulties in quantifying benefits. But improvements are subject to the
least cost analysis according to the agreed standards.
6.16   Quantitative Sensitivity Analysis. Quantitative sensitivity analysis was carried out as an integral
part of the quantitative economic analysis for the subprojects in the water supply and drainage subsectors.
Typical scenarios include demand reductions, cost increases, and project implementation delays. The
extent of the increases or decreases assumed for the sensitivity analysis was based on the implementation
experiences of similar type of urban infrastructure investment projects. Special attention was given to
designs for those subprojects whose rate of returns were close to the absolute cut-off rate of 10%, and final
project design and selection took into account the results of the sensitivity analysis by either modifying
them or deferring them for more detailed review and modifications prior to implementation and possible
elimination from the program.
6.17   Poverty Analysis. This project is considered part of the program of targeted interventions. As
previously noted in Section 3, urban poverty in Sulawesi towns is a serious problem due to the poverty
incidence being substantially higher than the national average. The project design has, in accordance with
GOI guidelines for IUIDP programming, given priority to facilities and services improvements for poor
neighborhoods in each project town, it is mostly the poor who lack access to clean and affordable water,
waste disposal facilities, and other basic services, and who usually reside in low-lying areas or along drains
and river banks that are often affected by frequent flooding. This project is expected to alleviate such



40
impacts as many components are especially targeted at improving the quality of life and environment in the
such areas. However, no explicit poverty alleviation component is proposed.
6.18   The water supply component would increase the access of the poor to clean water while reducing
the costs. An installment payment plan would be provided for piped water house connections who would
otherwise not be able to afford them. Water bills for basic lifeline supply would be kept to less than 5% of
the expenditures of low-income households. The drainage/flood control component would reduce the
frequency and duration of floods in the poor, low-lying areas. It would reduce property damage and
improve health conditions caused by stagnant polluted water in the neighborhoods, and also reduce access
disruptions. The human and solid waste disposal/treatment components would reduce morbidity and
improve health conditions of the poor. The road improvement program, which would also improve
conditions for non-motorized vehicles and pedestrians, would also benefit the poor. The KIP/MIIP
component, which is targeted on densely populated poor neighborhoods, would substantially improve the
living conditions of the very poor by providing basic infrastructure services at very low costs.
6.19   Environmental Improvements. Environmental management and mitigation measures have been
built into the design and cost of subprojects, and institutional arrangements have been made for monitoring
impacts on the environment, taking into account of the implementation experiences of previous subprojects
implemented in some Sulawesi towns under SIJUDP. The project will have a positive impact on the
environment through water supply, urban road improvements, solid and human waste disposal, drainage
and flood control and kampung improvement program. For instance, the water supply subprojects will
provide clean water and reduce ground water depletion. The urban road maintenance and upgrading and
side drains improvement will reduce air pollution and fuel consumption per kilometer through improved
road capacities, surfaces and traffic management. Improvement of solid and human waste disposal will
reduce soil and water contamination. Drainage and flood control will reduce flooding and flood-related
problems. (Frequent flooding brings water highly contaminated by solid and human waste into direct
contact with people and causes severe health hazards). KIP will, to a varying extent, incorporate all of
these improvements.
6.20   Economic Performance Indicators. The monitoring of economic performance of the project will
essentially be included in the system of monitoring and performance indicators described for the whole
program in Annex 5. Particularly as the key data for benefit calculation are included in the routine project
monitoring system, it will be relatively simple to estimate the economic benefit/perforrnance of subprojects
or larger aggregations as may be required.
6.21   In addition to the technical, financial and economic aspects, one of the most important indicator
should be the general public's perception of how well their services arc being provided. Moreover, the
needs and priorities of each community are different. Therefore, indicators should be customized for each
community. The proposed indicators will measure: (a) how well urban services are provided in water
supply, transportation, drainage, solid and human waste disposal; and (b) how well local municipalities
function in terms of municipal govemance, community feedback and environmental quality. Each local
government and PDAM will have a specific set of agreed performance indicators corresponding to their
individual project targets.
C. RISKS
6.22   There are two main risks for this project:  firstly the selection and quality of the physical
investments may be seriously deficient; and secondly, the efforts at capacity building of local government
staff and institutions may not take hold. Deficient physical implementation could be a result of poor



41
selection of subprojects within a subsector or between subsectors, weak analysis, wrong prioritization, or
inadequate quality due to defective design or lack of good supervision. Capacity building efforts may fail
because the local staff lack interest or motivation, there is high staff turnover, little local leadership and
minimal involvement and guidance from the two senior levels of governments.
6.23   Two approaches will be employed to minimize these risks: firstly, a strong, provincially based, but
local government-oriented implementation support strategy will be employed, and secondly, Bank
supervision will be close and involved especially during the first two years. The implementation support
team will include experienced local government practitioners who will provide practical advice and support,
to the PPMU and, through frequent regular visits to the local governments, they will seek to ensure
subproject selection and quality, by checking analysis, design and supervision, and through working closely
with local government staff train them on the job to better manage, solve problems, coordinate and perform
their duties. By locating a team in each service and a central support team also on Ujung Pandang not only
will there be greater focus on action on the ground, rather than paper reporting, but also develop in
communication and disseminating are expected to be avoided. But they will also be available to spot
serious weaknesses, recommend solutions, and provide trouble shooting and backstopping advice before
problems escalate. Low quality investments or execution, and lack of progress in institutional development
will be identified readily and addressed by the team.
6.24   The Bank supervision will be more proactive, and will work and liaise closely with the Central
Government (TKPP/Bappenas and DGCK) and with provincial management units. Resident staff in
Indonesia will be in frequent contact for ready advice and problem-solving, and where necessary field
visits. The Annual Implementation Review by the Bank provides a regular opportunity to do quality
control, correct, re-direct and improve physical or institutional weaknesses at an early stage and also
reinforce, recognize and publicize good performance.



42
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. ASSURANCES OBTAINED AND AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
7.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOI and the Sulawesi Provinces on the
following matters:
(a) The model APIP between the provincial governments and the participating local governments
and PDAMs, and the use of performance indicators as progress reporting, evaluation and
management tools (see para. 5.5);
(b) Standard SLA documents for participating local governments and participating PDAMs (see
paras. 4.29 and 5.13);
(c) Draft of the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM), including procedures
for the annual review process (see para. 5.4);
(d) Director General for Budget will authorize all payments to contractors from the Special
Account to be made through the KPKN Treasury offices at the provincial level (with the
exception of any technical assistance contracts procured by central GOI agencies) (see para.
5.18);
(e) The consolidated project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, as well as the
overall accounts of the participating PDAMs, will be audited annually by independent
auditors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that the audited accounts would be
submitted to the Bank no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, commencing
with GOI FY 96/97 (see para. 5.22);
(f) The Provincial Inspectorates General (Ir. Wil Prop) will carry out annual technical audits
during project implementation commencing not later than October 31, 1997 (see para. 5.25);
(g) Proposed arrangements and schedules for project launch workshops as well as for supervision
and annual implementation reviews by October 31 of each year (see para. 5.26);
(h) GOI will monitor the operations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures of the local
governments and participating PDAMs for each year as well as the proposed O&M budget
for the following year, report on them not later than July 31 of each year and discuss them
with the Bank as a part of the annual review (see para. 5.27);
(i) Final draft Governor's decree (SK) on project land acquisition and establishing Resettlement
Guidelines, including clearance by all relevant GOI agencies (see para. 5.28);
(j) Participating local government and participating PDAM borrowing commitments and that
such borrowings meet the agreed financial criteria of the Bank and GOI Ministry of Finance
(see para. 6.3). and
(k) Tariff adjustments necessary to meet the agreed financial viability criteria of PDAM will be
completed on or before September 30, 1997 and every two years thereafter (see para. 6.3).



43
B. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION
7.2    The following items were conditions of Board presentation:
(a) Submission to the Bank of finalized terms of reference and consultants' shortlist, acceptable
to the Bank, for the agreed priority implementation support (see para. 5.3); and
(b) Finalization of the Governor's Decrees on Resettlement including implementation guidelines
and model Bupati/Walikotanadya Decrees on Resettlement, taking into account the revisions
agreed during negotiations, and submission to the Bank of the signed Decrees (see para.
5.28).
C. CONDITION OF LOAN EFFECTIVENESS
7.3    The following item is a condition of loan effectiveness:
(a) Receipt by the Bank of the four Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda, acceptable
to the Bank, and duly approved by all relevant authorities and executed by GOI and the
Provinces (see para. 5.4).
D. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
7.4    Disbursements for each participating local governrment and participating PDAM will depend on
approval by the Bank of the following:
(a) The first Annual Project Implementation Plan (APIP) for each participating local government
and PDAM, acceptable to the Bank (see para. 5.5);
(b) Satisfactory documentary evidence confirming that the PPMUs have been established (see
para. 5.8); and
(c) The first SLA, acceptable to the Bank, for each participating local government and/or PDAM
with borrowing included in their agreed financing plan (see para. 5.13).
E. RECOMMENDATION
7.5    With the above agreements and assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$155
million equivalent, with a 20-year maturity including five years of grace, at the standard Bank variable
interest rate for currency pool loans.



44
ANNEX 1
SECOND SUIAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREVIOUS WORLD BANK URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS IN INDONESIA
Loan No.   FY Effect.    Closing             Project Name            Original       PPAR       Year
Date                                      Loan       PCRIICR
Amount
(US$M)       Report
(.S$M)         No.    ___No.
1040         1975      1981         Jakarta Urban Development       25.00         4620       1983
1049         1975      1982         Five Cities Water Supply         14.50        6256       1986
1336         1977      1984         Second Urban Development        52.50         6329       1986
1653         1979      1987         Third Urban Development         54.00         8583       1990
1709         1981      1987         Second Water Supply             36.00         8622       1990
1972         1982      1988         Fourth Urban Development        43.00         8583       1990
2236         1983      1991         Jakarta Sewerage/Sanitation      22.40        12150      1993
2275         1983      1990         East Java Water Supply           30.00        10853      1992
2408         1984      1991         Fifth Urban Development          39.25        11501      1992
2632         1986      1993         E. Java Water Supply 11          43.30        13637      1994
2725         1986      1992         Housing Sector Loan            200.00         13296      1994
2816         1987      1991         Urban Sector Loan              270.00         10388      1992
2817         1987      Oct. 1994    Reg. Cities Urban Transport      51.00        15245      1995
2932         1988      Mar 1997    Jabotabek Urban                  150.00
Development
3219         1990      Dec 1996    Jabotabek Urban Dev. II          190.00
3246         1991      Dec 1996    Jabotabek Urban Dev. III          61.00
3304         1991      Dec 1996    East Java/Bali UDP               180.30
3340         1991      Dec 1996    Sulawesi/Irian Jaya UDP          100.00
3726         1995      Sept 1999    Surabaya UDP                    175.00
3749         1995      Sept 1999    Semarang/Surakarta UDP          174.00
3854         1996      June 2001    Kalimantan UDP                  136.00
4017        not yet    Mar 2000    East Java UDP 11                 142.7
4054        not yet    Sept 2001    Strategic Urban Roads Infra      86.9
TOTAL                                                                2,276.85



45
ANNEX 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF PROJECT TOWNS
SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                                                        2,220,244
Gowa'                                                    Sungguminasa                                                      48,691
Pinrang'                                                Pinrang                                                            64,127
Wajo*                                                   Sengkang                                                           33,672
Tana Toraja*                                             Rantepao                                                          14,502
Tana Toraja*                                             Makale                                                            16,561
Majene*                                                 Majene                                                             46,007
Sidrap*                                                 Pangkaiene                                                         26,446
Bantaeng                                                Bantaeng                                                          146,330
Barru                                                   Barru                                                              22,700
Selayar                                                 Benteng                                                            14,600
Jeneponto                                                Bontosunggu                                                       34,000
Bulukumba                                               Bulukumba                                                          35,300
Enrekang                                                Enrekang                                                           14,000
Mamuju                                                  Mamuju                                                             17,600
Maros                                                   Maros                                                              48,500
Luwu**                                                  Palopo                                                             68,900
Pangkep                                                 Pangkep                                                            26,500
Pare Pare" (KODYA)                                      Pare Pare                                                         113,100
Polmas                                                  Polewall                                                           27,300
Sinjai                                                  Sinjai                                                             27,700
Takalar                                                  Takalar                                                           36,600
UJUNG PAN DA,NG** (KODYA)                               Ujung Pandang                                                   1,218,460
Soppeng                                                 Watansoppeng                                                       27,148
Bone"                                                   Watampone                                                          91,500
SUIAWESI TENCGAH                                                                                                         345,957
Bangoai_                                                Luwuk                                                              40,135
Donggala                                                Donggala                                                          17,545
Blual Toli Toli'                                        Toliloli                                                           63,577
PAI. J**(KODYA)                                         Palu                                                              187,000
Poso                                                    Poso                                                               37,700
SULAWESI TENGARA                                                                                                          282,625
13uton*                                                 Bau Bau                                                            50,585
Kolaka*                                                 Kolaka                                                             31,224
Muna*                                                   Raha                                                               34,590
KENDARI**(KODYA)                                        Kendari                                                           149,000
Kendari                                                 Unaaha                                                             17,226
SULAWESI UTARA                                                                                                            715,064
Bitung*"(KODYA)                                         Bitung                                                             78,853
.Minahasa*                                              Tondano                                                            55,925
Bolaang Mongondow*                                      Kotamobagu                                                         78,168
Sangihe Talud'                                          Tahuna                                                             22,407
Goronialo*                                              Limboto                                                            23,755
GORONTALO'*(KODYA)                                      Gorontalo                                                         120,810
MANADO*(KODYA)                                         Manado                                                            358,900
Total Project Population                                                                                                3,610,044
I.  13ased on survey data between 1990 to 1994.
2.   *towns in the original preparation effort.
3.   ** towns included in SIfUDP.
4.   Provincial capitals are in CAPITALS.
5.   Cities (Kotamadva) are marked (KODYA).
NOTE: Kabupaten (regencies) are district. Level II local govenmments which contain a number oftowns (some of
which are "administrative towns". Kotomadva (cities) are incorporated city Ievel ll local governments.



46
ANNEX 3
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Studies Carried Out During Project Preparation
Water Resources - Pare Pare and Pangkajene. During pre-appraisal in March 1995, these two towns were
identified as having high iron and manganese content in their groundwater s which significantly contributed to
performance problems of the local PDAMs. Consultants were funded through the New Zealand Consultant
Trust Fund to recommend simple measures that could be taken to minimize this problem. This report is
finalized and recommendations and conclusions have been incorporated into project design.
Composting Pilot - FIAHS Funds. Through the World Bank's FIAHS fund, community based composting
activities in three areas - Bali, East Java, and Sulawesi - were piloted. Programs are still underway. In
Sulawesi, efforts were concentrated in Ujung Pandang through the University of Ujung Pandang and the NGO,
Partner of the Environment. Results have been promising and composting applications have been expanded
within project design and will be further encouraged during implementation.
TPA Siting and Operations Study. In almost all Sulawesi towns, a short-coming was quickly identified; waste
disposal sites (TPAs) are poorly sited and operated. Suitable government guidelines exist, however, they are
generally ignored. A 'hands-on" study is underway to bring about improvements in TPA operations. The
simplified "operations manual"will be used throughout project implementation and supervision activities. The
study was funded by an Australian Consultant Trust Fund and will be presented at project launch.
Tourism Study - Tana Toraja. During project appraisal the Bupati of Makale expressed concem about the
sensitivity of local culture and tourist attractions vis-a-vis local development. An application was made to the
French Consultant Trust Fund to explore ways to protect local cultural attractions and identify infrastructure
deficiencies which may hinder the positive further development of high quality tourism business in Tana Toraja.
Work is underway and should be completed by September 1996.
Sanitation Altematives - Toli Toli. As part of a research project, funded by the World Bank, on sanitation
alternatives in areas of high ground water, field research was carried out in Toli Toli (in addition to Banjirmasin,
Kalimantan). Field work was completed in August 1995 and the most promising options have been incorporated
into project design.
Drainage Study - Bitung. Bitung's PJM requested extensive investments in Sabo dams. These dams prevent
catastrophic debris flows from volcano slopes, however, due to the high costs and relatively untried (in
Sulawesi) technology, the investments needed to be more closely studied. Expert consultants, financed by the
New Zealand Consultant Trust Fund were engaged, and with the assistance of the East Java Sabo Dam Institute,
they refined the overall design of the investment component. Recommendations have been incorporated into
project design.



47
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
Real Demand Surveys -
The Use of Community Surveys in the Preparation
Clear and transparent avenues of community consultation by local governments are generally
absent in Sulawesi. Government leaders are appointed through the central government and are most
accountable to provincial and national authorities. In order to try to obtain a better measure of the
community's infrastructure demands and priorities "real demand surveys" were carried out.
The surveys were designed to provide in depth community consultation and allow tailoring of
infrastructure investments specific to each community. The surveys covered household structure
(age/sex, education, economic activity, migration, place of work, income, and ownership of selected
items - e.g. television), housing (tenure, sanitation), water (sources, consumption, cost), willingness to
pay for infrastructure improvements, flooding, waste disposal, and general suggestions for community
improvement.
At the request of local governments, seven Sulawesi towns were surveyed (Sungguminasa,
Pangkajene, Senkang, Makale, Rantepao, Tondano, and Bitung). Approximately 300 households
were surveyed in each town.
The surveys were carried out by the provincial Bureau of Statistics for a relative low cost (Rp.
1.2 million, $600). The surveys can be readily expanded and applied to all project towns. As part of
project monitoring, surveys will be carried out to track consumer satisfaction and improvements over
baseline conditions.
The following nine tables represent some of the survey's main findings.
REAL DEMAND SURVEYS: SULAWESI 2
SUMMARY RESULTS
Priorities for Improvement
Sung'ma    Pang-no  Sengkang    Makale  Rantepao   Tondano  Bitung
SUGGESTED IMPROVEMENTS
water supply    26        14       33        29        10        35       37
better sanitation  9        27        6        17         5         4        4
drainage/flood control  29     66        27        16        42       27        29
garbage collection  39       36        16        33        26       19        39
repair/improve roads  19       31       19        30        37        25       19
clean/sweep streets  20        0        22        23       11        25        14
street lighting                                        29                   9
housing, plenning                                          6                  11
law and order                                           6                   3
other facility                                        11                  10
other problem                                          18                  12
other      27        11       34        64         0        51        0
Total Number    281      273       194       258      300       333       358



48
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
REAL DEMAND SURVEYS: SULAWESI 2
SUMMARY RESULTS
Type of Housing
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
_(%)         (%)          (%'                       (%)          (%) _        (%'
CONSTRUCTION OF DWELLING
Permanent           62           46           47           52           39           25            56
Semi-permanent           26           49           39           32           31           27           28
Temporary           12            6           14           16           30           48            16
Total Percentage        100          100          100          100           100          100          100
Water - Willingness to Pay
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
(%'         (%'           (%)          (%'          (%)          (%)          (%)
WILLING TO PAY FOR PDAM
CONNECTION
lowlevelonly          40           16           24           39           13           33           10
medium level          11            2            2            9            8            5            3
high level         12            2            5            6            4            8            1
not willing/don't know       37           80           70           45           75           54           86
Household Structure
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
Average household size (persons)        5.6            5          5.2          5.3          5.4          3.9          4.7
female heads of households         17           12           20           22           21            14            8
One-person households            4            4            4            9            6            6            2
One and two-person households          10           11           11           17           18            20            9
Consumer Durables Owned
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
_(%) _       (%          (%           (%)           (%)          (%)          (%)
Television         67           61           71           59           69           68           68
Refrigerator         20           15           27           10           13            9           16
Washing Machine             1            2            2            1            1            2            1
Motorcycle          28           25           32           19|          19|           61           8
MotorCarNVantJeep            9           10           13           10           10            8            8



49
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
REAL DEMAND SURVEYS: SULAWESI 2
SUMMARY RESULTS
Sanitation - Type of Facility
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
.        (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)
EXCLUSIVE TOILET?
exclusive to household         77          63           94           80            65           83           82
shared with neighbours          4            5            2           13           16           11             4
public facility        1            0            1            1            3            2            4
not toilet (open area)       18          32             3            5           16            4           10
Sanitation - Willingness-to-pay
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
(%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)
WILLING TO PAY FOR TOILET?
low level only        58           31           28           32           36            0            0
medium level           2            9           10           12           11           32            6
high level          3            3            3           17            9            7            0
not willing/dont know        37           56           58           39           44           61           94
Water Supply
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
(%)          (°b)         (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)          (%)
PDAM, own connection           14           22           50           61           65           43            57
PDAM, other            4            5           21           16           23           31           13
well only         83           73           29           23           12           27           30
PDAM conn plus well          10            6            11           15           17           13           11
Time Getting Well Water
Sung'ma      Pang'ne    Sengkang        Makale    Rantepao       Tondano        Bitung
_% )         (%)  _    _   _   _ _  _ _             (% )  _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _
up to 10 mins.         62           25           82           37           59           78           61
10 to 29 mins.         24           59           18           46           40           40           29
30to59mins.             9           14            0           16            1            4            4
onehourormore              5            2            0            1|           01           ol           51



50
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The proposed project's main development objective - to improve the delivery of urban infrastructure
services by the local governments in a sustainable manner - requires a broad set of performance indicators to
truly reflect the project's long-term impact. In order to monitor thc project's overall achievements, five groups
of performance indicators have been proposed: 1) Services Performance; 2) Poverty Alleviation; 3) Urban
Environment; 4) Sustainability of Development; and 5) Social Impact (see Table 1).
Group I indicators will monitor Physical and Financial target accomplishments such as meters of road
constructed, or increases in revenue, however as shown through previous experience, e.g. SIJUDP, this is not
sufficient to adequately reflect a project's long-term sustainability. Therefore Group 2-5 indicators, building on
the results of Group 1, would measure the sustainability of the infrastructure investments by evaluating quality
and efficiency of local government's investments and operations. Group 2 to 5 are intended to measure the
project's impact, as well as non-project related community accomplishments. Many of the indicators in these
four groups will require professional judgment to rank into HS-Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U-
Unsatisfactory and HU-Highly Unsatisfactory. As part of their required activities, the provincial
Implementation Support teams will provide this service.
Meaningful targets are difficult to define for monitoring of poverty alleviation and social impact
progress. Yet these areas are considered key components of a commnunity's "social infrastructure". The project
aims to promote a long term attitudinal shift in the way things are done and it is proposed to monitor
quantitative progress in these areas as indicators of long-term attitudinal shifts.
The urban environment indicators are intended to provide useful and relatively easy to obtain, sunogate
environmental measurements. They should be sufficient to indicate a community's overall efforts towards
environmental protection.
Group 4 - Sustainability of Development have components similar to the baseline targets established in
Group 1, however these management targets are designed to evaluate the quality and efficiency of gains in these
areas; not just absolute amounts. In order to reflect the unique characteristics of each community, Group 4d
facilitates target customization. The community, through the annual APIP review process, would select priority
areas where the community will focus activities in the upcoming year.



51
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
Table I
1. Services Performance             a.  Physical achievement of each sector target (see Table 2)
2. Poverty Alleviation              a.  Number of low-income households with access to urban
infrastructure
3. Urban Environment                a.  No. of households with access properly functioning waste
water facilities
b.  No. of households using TPS
c.  % of waste reaching TPS or TPA
d.  Level of Pollution (BOD etc.)
e. No. of population with water-borne disease
f   Cleanliness of the market
4. Sustainability of Development    a.  % of employees who have received proper training for
current job
b.  0 & M performancc
c.  Financial performance (cost recovery)
d.  Customized community targets (From Table 4)
e.  Level of private sector participation in the provision of
urban services
5. Social Impact                    a.  Number of households resettled and properly compensated
b.  Level of community participation
c.  Real demand/willingness to pay surveys - results
*      Implementation Support Consultants will detail the exact methods to measure performance during the
first six months of project implementation.



52
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Table 2
Physical and Financial Accomplishments
Subsector       Indicator                   Baseline            Target           Actual to date     % Accomplished
Amount        Rp.                        Physical/Financial
Roads           km built and rehabilitated
Drainage        km built and rehabilitated
Solid Waste     Waste (volume) properlv
disposed at TPA
Water Supply    # of household conneclions
Sanitation      sludge (volume) properly
treated
KIP             # of households improved
Local           Rupiah (million)
Revenue
Local O&M       Rupiah (million)
Expenditure
NOTE: Sample form to be completed by each local government.



53
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Table 3
Social, Environmental and Sustainability Indicators
Indicator               Baseline             Current
Poverty Alleviation    # of households with access to
urban infrastructure
Urban Environment      # of households with access to
waste water facilities
# of households with access to
using TPS
Level of Pollution                                 HS/S/U/HU
# of population with water-
borne diseases
Cleanliness of Market                              HS/S/U/HU
Sustainability of      % of employees trained                           %
Development
RDS-WTP                                            HS/S/U/HU
O&M Performance                                    HS/S/U/HU
Financial Performance                              HS/S/U/HU
PSP                                                HS/S/U/HU
Customized Community                               HS / S / U / HU
Targets (5-7)
Social Impact          # of households properly
resettled
___ Community Participation                        HS/S/U/HU
HS: Highly Satisfactory, S: Satisfactory, U: Unsatisfactory, HU: Highly Unsatisfactory. As initially judged by
the Implementation Support Team, Team to provide details on exact methods on measurement and collection of
baseline date in the first six months of project implementation.
NOTE: Sample form to be completed by each local government.



54
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
Table 4
Potential Menu of Example Targets
Customized Community Targets
1. Water Supply
PDAM cost recovery of O&M and debt          - Rate collection performance of PDAM
service
24 hour per day availability                - Tariff adjustment
Percent of local population receiving       - Percent of local population receiving adequate
adequate drinking water supply               drinking water supply
- Average cost of Im3 of drinking water (as %  - Unaccounted for water in the municipal
of average low-income household's income)    delivery system
2. Transportation
- Percent of population within 300 meters of a
paved road
- Degree of effort made to incorporate non-   - Kilometers of roads maintained
motorized transport
- Frequency and severity of traffic congestion
- Quality of construction and maintenance     - Meters of bridges or culverts constructed or
level of local roads based on annual         rehabilitated
condition assessment of local roads
- Time and expense to make a standard trip to
market
3. Drainage
- Incidence of malaria and dengue fever
(stagnant water)
- Quality of construction based on annual
condition assessment of local drains
- Level of community participation in local   - Percent of population whose houses or
drain maintenance (including proper solid     businesses were under 10 cm or more of water
waste disposal)                              for at least 6 hours per year
- Percent of comnmunity served by tertiary
drains



55
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
4. Waste Water
- Ambient water quality in drains, water      - Number of new individual and community septic
courses, an near shore                      tanks installcd (number of additional people served)
- Quality of shallow ground water
- Percent of population that understands the  - Number of households visited by community
ramifications of poor sanitation practices    health workers
(based on community survey)
- Percent of population with access to properly
operating waste water facilities
- Percent of local industries who provide
treatment (at least primary level) to process
and employee waste water
5. Solid Waste
- Percent of waste "fly-tipped"               - Volume of waste collected and properly
disposed
- Cleanliness of public areas (waste not placed  - Acquisition of new TPA if required (using
in drains)                                    acceptable site selection process)
- Properly located waste disposal site:       - Number of new waste containers established
existence and adherence to an operating plan  with proper collection
- Percent of community served by reliable     - Percent of waste collected from markets
waste collection (minimum weekly)
- Percent of waste diverted through recycling
and composting
- Percent of waste delivered to final disposal
site
6. Municipal Management
- Percent of high level staff with professional accreditation
- Percent of staff with known job description
- Percent of operating and capital budget generated through local funds
- Existence and adherence to a locally generated and valid land-use plan
- Existence and adherence to 5 year (minimum) "master plans" in water supply, waste water,
solid waste, and transportation
- Staff training and coaching
- Efficiency of budgeting process and level of cost recovery
- Effective use of private sector
- Construction quality of funded works
- Regulatory efficiency - Percent of LIDAP, RIAP, and POMMS targets (or equivalent) met



56
ANNEX 6
Page I of 4
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
In addition to infrastructure investments, implementation support is also a major focus of the Sccond
Sulawesi Urban Development Project (SULUDP-2). The lessons of the Sulawesi Irian Jaya Project arc clear:
(a) infrastructure investments  must have competent agencies to operate and maintain them, (b) current
strategies for "technical assistance" are not providing adequate results, and (c) institutional reforms must have
coordinated short, medium and long-term goals. When asked what was the most critical assistance thcy needed,
a local government official in Sulawesi replied, "we need the help of someone who knows how to run one of
'these things', somebody who's done it before, who can make it work, and keep it working."
The long term goal of the implementation support strategy is to have municipalities that can -- on their
own -- identify, prioritize and budget for infrastructure needs, operate and maintain facilities -- both existing and
those newly acquired -- and retain professional staff who can provide the skills necessary to maximize the social,
environmental and economic benefits of local infrastructure. It is expected that these capabilities will be more
or less in place in Sulawesi towns within five to seven years. To achieve this goal, the local government
assistance strategy in SULUDP-2 will be more "hands-on" and focused.
During project preparation, extensive discussions were held with various national, provincial and local
government officials on the structure of the implementation support team. The support structure was also
extensively discussed during negotiations and is summarized in the Minutes of Technical Discussions.



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11 UDP)
ORGANIZATION OF IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT AND DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT CONSULTANTS
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT CONSULTANT
Stationed in Jakarta
TRAINING IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT CONSULTANT
Stationed in Jakarta
SOUTH SULAWESI PROVINCE      |      |SOUTH EAST SULAWESI PROVINCE  | [   CENTRAL SULAWESI PROVINCE               NORTH SULAWESI PROVINCE       |                           _
SOUTH SULAWESI                     SOUTH EAST SULAWESI                    CENTRAL SULAWESI                       NORTH SULAWESI
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
CONSULTANT                           CONSULTANT                            CONSULTANT                            CONSULTANT
Stationed in Ujung Pandang              Stationed in Kendan                    Stationed in Palu                    Stationed in Manado
DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
SOUTH SULAWESI PROVINCE      |        -SOUTH EAST SULAWESI PROVINCE       CENTRAL SULAWESI PROVINCE              NORTH SULAWESI PROVINCE
| 5 DED& SUPERVISION CONSULTANTs      DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT          DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT          DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
for Water Supply & PLP Projects (-)       for Water Supply & PLP Projects       for Water Supply & PLP Projects       for Water Supply & PLP Projects
DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT         DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT          DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT          DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT                                  ;6
tor Urban Roads Projects             for Urban Roads Projects              for Urban Roads Projects              for Urban Roads Prolects
I() One Consultant each for the following towns (Stationed in the underlined town)
1 Uunm Paindano. Maros Pangkep, Sunggumnmnasa Takalar
2 Bulkumrba, Bontosun.ggu Snijar. Beoteng. Bantaeng
3 Watampnone. Walansapeng Sengkong, Palopo
4 Pare Pare. Ban-. Sdnpa. Enrekang. Toraja
S Maene. Mamnlu Polewal. Pmorang



ANNEX 6
58                                                                                                     Page 3 of 4
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11 UDP)
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT AND DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
Organization Chart
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT CONSULTANTS
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
IMPLEMENTATION ADVISORY CONSULTANT
- Oter0 Projcts Implementation Management
-Overall Projers Benefd Mon-o.rg & E.olaItron JPMEt
- Overall Projects Progress Reports
- Teimnig Program DUeelopmen-  & Montorig
Communpd Relay ons Program Devebpmenl & Mssonr-g
I-ciLding support n
- Urban Roads Inplamen-e,I- Manageme-
|  SOUTH SULAWESI PROVINCE                                  [ SOUTH EAST SULAWESI PROVINCE                                  CENTRAL SULAWESI PROVINCE                                     NORTH SULAWESI PROVINCE
1PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION COORDINATION & PROVINCIAL SUPPORT CONSULTANT
Coordination Office
(located in South Sulawesi)
! I
- Oveal.l Protests Inplemenl.atn Cuordnarton & Evaluation
- Overall Construokion Progteaa & Qual.ty Control
- KIP Montorig 0 Bsa.tI Evaluaton          i
Tec.lh-al Audi Suppor1
- Boasess Deoewopmen Support
- Legal Soppor
Proreot Completion Repon
inniudeng euppit inm
- Urban Reads Implementation Coordinataon & Evaluaton
- Urban Roads Supervision £ Qualip Management
South Sulawesl Branch Office                            South East Sulawesl Branch Office                             Central Sulawesl Branch Office                               North Sulawesl Branch Office
- Prata Implaerrrafion Montonng & Repoiting                 - Projeos Implemeta-on Moneor-ig & Reporting               - Prleta Implementaton Mantoring & Repuning                  Pnods Implam  ntat Mn Moneoeng & RapnItg
PPMUiPMU Strengthenrg0                                      PPMUIPMMU Srengtheing                                      PPMUIPMU Strengoeni-g                                     - PPMUIPMU Str-gthenkg
- Prqojs & F -ncal Management Asuiaanve                      Projetsb & Financ  Mangeme       t -a                       Projt 0 Fnania Manage        t Aaitna                      Proleot. A Fianoral Managam-tl Aaltann-
- Projeoa  .netd Mon-iorng   Eva- fiin IPBMEI               - P     ,s B-neti Monitorg & Evaluatin (PBME                Pujda Benefid Mondorig & Ev-iatIon (PBME)                    Prets eoneftd Mon-odg b Evaluaton (PME)
PJMa Adjuatm-nt Asaistanve                                  PJMe Adjustmend Assistance                                 PJMs AdIjstmanl Aatanoe                                   - PJMs Aduatm-nt Asaatansi
- UFW Reduction Program                                     - UFW Reduction Prog-am                                    - UFW Redution Program                                       UFW Redu.nti  Program
- Proets 0 b M Support                                       Projcs 0 & M Support                                       Pro.eda O b M Suppor                                       - Proats 00 & tt Suppor
- Communty Retions                                                                       - Commun Reltions                - C  ndp R     -Ia                                        C-o nity Relatins
- Enoflroniental Aspedcs                                    - E-nironmental Aspeos- En-n1onmeroal Aspda                                                                            - Environmental Aapaons
Trnmg Progrm Implemetation                                  Trunang Program implementation                             Trainng Program Implementaion                              - Trainng Progrm Implemntation
Including suppot h                                          Includmg suppo n                                           incuding supportn                                           Inolding support in
- Urban Roads Implement Moneocng & Reponmg                 - Urban Roads Implemenl Monioing & Repotng                  - Urban Roads Iiplmetnt Moniorig   Repording                - Urban Roads Implment rtonton-ng & Reporing
DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
|   SOUTH SULAWESI PROVINCE   1 [ SOUTH EAST SULAWESI PROVINCE   [ CENTRAL SULAWESI PROVINCE 1 (  NORTH SULAWESI PROVINCE
|5 DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANTs |                            DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT                               DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT    |DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
for Water Supply & PLP Projects                            for Water Supply & PLP Projects                             for Water Supply & PLP Projects                             for Water Supply & PLP Projects
|   Assstancn mDED Preparation ,                             AsWistance    DED Preparation                             - A.sir-anva in DED Prapara.on                              - Aaaistanoe in DED Preparatin
|     A-sts-enne in Constru0-n Sope-sin               |      A      -sisnan  in Constroction Supa-oion                 - Aaat.naee a Conatrudin Sope-miem|    - A                          -aletanca n Coruoten Supera,on
_   Pjedets Qoiity & BudgetControl                        .Protects fuety & BdgetControl C -Prote1ualtit & Budgt Canot|    -Prn1eds QuNty & Budget Control
|DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT  |                            DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT                               DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT  |                             DED & SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
for Urban Roads Projects                                    for Urban Roads Projects                                   for Urban Roads Projects                                    for Urban Roads Projects
| Aus-rannm DED Preparadion                           |      As.stanv, in DED Preparation                              - Assistance in DED Praparafi|c                             - Assia  ncI i DED Prparab an
| -    A   Isranse i Conatnuion Sup-rvisin            |       As.sisnver Constorutron Supervision                      - As-rsane in C-nstruMon SupeoreW.on                        - Asrtanoa in Conaructan Suprisi,n
- Prqet QsGualy & Budget Contiol                      |      Projcts Qualpy & Budget Control                      |      Propta Qualmy b Budget Control                       ||- ProCts Quarty & Budget Central



ANNEX 6
59                                               ~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 4
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENTPRJC
CENTRAL & PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS' IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT CONSULTANTS                                                                         ___
I  ___________________          ~11.07.96
_________    ________________      STAFF ALLOCATION             ____COST                            ____           IMPLEMENTING
NO                DESCFIPTION                 FOREIGN    LOCAL         TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL  jTOTAL               TOTAL            AGENCY
mm          mm         mm        US$ 000    US$ -000    USS 000   RP. million
ISi  Implementation Advisory Consuttant                     _______DGCK, Binia Program &
_______  -   - T                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Balai Pelatihan AB&PLP
-Sr. Municipal Manager                         2   __   48             72 __   360$           240                         -___
-PBME Specialist                                1 2        36          48         180$        160
-Sr Training Specialist                                    24          24 _____120
__- Comnt  eain   pcait                 _____               12          12                      60                         -
-Support Staff                                            1201        120   _ _                6
Subtotal Si   36 _____  20T        144         540         660        1,20        2.760
1S2   rojects --implementation Coordination & Provincial Support Consultant             jDC.Bna
IS 2a Coination Office___ ____----.___
-Sr. Municipal Finance Specialist               12         36          46         160         180
-Business Development Specialist                   11       s          16                      90_______
-Legal Specialist               1__      ___       $       2           12                      SO__    1 0____-
-~-Sr. Roads Engineer                                          24         24                     1 i2
-Support Staff                                            120         120                      6
Subtotal IS 2a        36        1f36         174        504         750        1.2901      2.967 ________
15bSouth Sulawesi Province Branch Office                                                 ±
-Municipal Engineer (Co-TL      -              24          46          72         3.60        240
-Municipal Finance                                         36          36                     160
- Cvil/Road Engineer                                       36          36                     18ISO___                           _______
-Environmentalist              -__       ___ 2___    4                 2   __                  120
PEME Engineer                               36         ~~~~~~~                               ~~~36  1601
-Training Activities              -~0                                   0-90
Communit RltoActivities                                                0_____               50-___
-Support Staff  _ _ _ _  _    _  _  _  _ __120                        120                      60              _  _   _      _  _   _  _
Subtotal IS 2b        24~        160    2     04        36         2.0         2.720   _   6.256  ___
IS 2c- South East Sulawesi Province Branch Office
-Municipal Engineer (CoTL)                     24          46-         72         301_        240.
-Municipal Finance                     _____]____242                   24 __                  120
-Civil/Road Engineer                   _____I              242         24                     120              __________
-Environmentalist                      _____ I             24          24 _____  __           120
* BME Engineer                                             12____      12   ____60
-Training Activities                                                    0 0    ___            200
-Community Relation Activities             ____0                                              la___  o[-___                  ______
-Supporl Staff   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ __66030                                                           _ _ _    
Subtotal IS 2c - ~24             132         156    _ 360           90         1.3504      3.105_________
IS 2d Central Sulawesi Province Branch Office
-Municipal Engineer (COTL)_    _    _          24          48          72         36   _      240
-Municipal Finance                                         24          24 ____                120,
-Civil/Road Engineer                              j        24          24 ____                120I
-Environimentalist                                         24          24            j_       1,200-
PBME Engineer                        _ ___               1 2         12                      6
Training Activities       _____           ___0                         0    _____     __    2001 
-Community Relation Activities                              0           0                     100
-Support Staff                                 24          60         1f44 _____               30~ 
Subtotal IS 2d                   1321        120        3601        9900       1.3501      3.105 _____
IS 2e North Sulawesi Province Branch Office
Municipal Engineer (CoTL)                     241         48    ~     7          360        24
-Municipal Finance                                -        24          24-10_                             _       __            _      _
-    Civil/Road Engineer                                      24           4    ____             10_____              __
-Environmentalist                                          24          24  1___'             20  ___ F_____
-PBME Engineer                                             12          12              }6 0
-Training  Activities                                        1)         0                     250   _   _ _      _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
-Community Relation ALtivities         a______200
-Support Staff                     -60                                 60              ____30
Subtotal IS 2e        241        I13         156        360        1.140       1.500       3,450 _________
___Subtotal Projects Implemnentation Coordination & Provincial Support Consultant    1,980       6,230       8,210      18.883 _________
Total Implementation Support Cnonultants                                          2,520      8,890        9,410 _   21,6431_________



60
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of5
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPRESENTATIVE INVESTMENTS IN SUNGGUMINASA,
RANTEPAO, LUWUK AND TONDANO



61                                    ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
IUIDP SULAWESI II
MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROVINCE: SULAWESI SELATAN
KABUPATEN: GOWA
TOWN: SUNGGUMINASA
NO.         SECTOR                                  COMPONENTS
1 Urban Planning           Prepare conservation pacKage and site plan for town center
Prepare town planning instructional package
--------------------------------------------                    ______________
2  Housing                 Repair housing
Construct basic housing of RS and RSS types
Construct block houses
3  Water Supply            Acquire 22.500 m' land
Construct 18,600 m transmission lines and 254,427 m distribution lines
Procure 6 montonng vehicles
install 9,018 connections
Prepare institutional training package for PDAM        *
4  Sanitation              Install 31 9 Type A toilets ana 1 B3 vertical septic tanks
Construct 11 Type A MCKs
Procure 1 2-m3 truck, 1 IPLT construction, and 1 fire truck
Acquire 10.000 m2 land
Planning, supervision, and operation training for potable water
Prepare 5 public awareness packages
Prepare instructional package
5  Drainage                Prepare study ana detailed design
Construct drains for 781-ha. area
Prepare training and instructional package
Procure 1 truck
6  Urban Roads             Acquire 84,400 m land
Civil works to construct and upgrade 237,930 m2 of roads
7 Solid Waste Management Construct 43 permanent TPSs and 4 transfer depots
Construct 1 worksnop
Construct 2.885 in2 TPA
Procure 7,851 waste baskets. 66 carts and construct 8 containers
Procure 16 waste transpon vehicles
Procure 1 computer
Acquire 921 m2 land
Fill 3.000 m2 soil
Prepare 5 public instructional packages
B UrDan RenewallKIPlMIIP Rehabililtate 65 na. KIP
Renabilitate 10 ha. of central market
Rehabilitate 4 ha. of terminal marKet



62
ANNEX 7
IUIDP SULAAWESI                              Page 3 Of 5
MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROVINCE. SULAWESI SELATAN
KABUPATEN: TANA TORAJA
TOWN: RENTEPAO
NO.        SECTOR                                       COMPONENTS
t Urban Planning
2  Housmng                Housing for 4 na. of uran area
35 ha. of Ljsiba
Prepare 2 Instructional packages
3 Water Supply            Procure 2 Unkers
Connect 190 houses
Place 30.012 m. pipelines
Install 88 hydrants and 3.150 m dstnbution pipelines
Install 20,7768m. distnbution pipelines
Construct 1 new IPA
Prepare 1 leaKage study
A  Sannauon               Install 4 pUbliC 2atns+C41 WC. 325 family toiiets, and 10 septic tanKs
Prepare 2 instructional pacKaoes ana 2 training courses
S  Drainage               Construct 5.5 Km. pnmary drains and 2.5 km. seconoary arams
Construct 210 m. culverls
Procure 1 0.5-rn excavator
G  Urban ROaQS            Consnru_ 29.600 m2 prnmaryiseconcary roaos
Construct 68,300 m2 local pnmary/seconaary roads
Construct 35.000 rnm pnmary/seconaary collector roaOs
Construct 20-m. bndge
7  Solid Waste Management Install 1715 housenola is. 215 communal bins
Install 6 6-m  containers
Construct 1 150-mr workshop, including 2,000 m. access road
Procure 2 dump trucks and 1 mini-truck
Prepare pacKage of engineenng seMces
Acquire 2 ha. land
8  Urban RenewaiKl7P/MIIP   Upgrade 4 na urDan area
Upgraoe 23 ha. KIP
Renew 4 na MIIP
Prepare detailed engineenng resign for Bolo market



63                                         ANNEX 7
IUIDP SULAWESI II                              Page 4 of 5
MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROVINCE: SULAWESI SELATAN
KABUPATEN  BANGGAI
TOWN: LUWUK
NO           SECTOR                                         COMPONENTS
1  Urban Planning            Acouire 2.'.000 m2 land
Prepare site layout and design
Prepare 2 RTRK pacKages
Prepare instructional and taining package for public
2  Housing                   Acquire 10G.60D m' land
Construct 9054 m road. 1.3108 m drains, 4024 m distnbuton pipes
Install 565 water connections
Construct 19 communal septic tanks. 5 TPSs. and 42 MCKs
3  Water Supply               Upgrade 3.550 m pipe lines *nd 2.000 units water meter.
Construc 2 units new Reservoir 800 m' and 34,072 m distribution pipe lines
Connect 5.906 houses, new
Construct 40 unis water station
4  Saniton                   Install 500 family toiiets, 140 indMduai septic tanKs
Prepare oetailed engineenng study for saniation
Construct 1 unit IPLT
Land Acquistsion 10.000 m' tor IPLT
Procure 2 trucks tinja
5  Drainage                   Upgrace 7.200 m arminage
Construc S packages, new dranage
Construct 1 unit Cek Dam
D3D normaiation Sungai Simpong, 1 package
Normalzabon S. Simpong 12,705 m'
Procure 3 units truck, 1 unit excavator.
Prepare 5 package instrutona: and 1 package training course.
6  Urban Roacs                Conntruat 28 km artery macs. Settermernt and 85.722 m' artery roads
Construct 6.906 m' local roads. Betterment
Construct 30 m Jole Pantai Bndge
Construct 61,536 m2 rnery roads, Overlay
Construct 7.824 m2 local roads. Overlay
7  Solid Waste Management    Prepare oetaleb *ngmneeonng stuay tor TPA
Procure 5 dump trucks 6   cap.. 1 truck. 3 vehicle. 6 motors. 1 Bulldozer 70 HP
Procure 9 Contatner 6 rm', 40 gerobsks 1 m
install 5.000 bins. 40 - 60 It cap
install 90 bins. 70 It cap
_onstruC 200 m' WorKshop
Construct intrastructure for TPA and utility
8  urnan Reneal/IMlP          Consruct 4 360 m road. 7090 m drains. 14 MCKs II TPSs
ins:all 370 water connections anc 2.370 m distrioution Pipes
Construc: 5470 rm' kioSKS. 1,310 m corridors 8 fish StallS
Construct 2.620 m orams
Instal' 300 0DAIU connections
Construr: 1 TPS 2 puit: nyarants. 1 MCK anc 100 m        ipreso.:*on cipe



64
ANNEX 7
IUIDP SULAWE51 11                         Page 5 of 5
MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROVINCE: SULAWESI UTARA
KABUPATEN: MINAHASA
TOWN: TONDANO
NO          SECTOR                               COMPONENTS
1 Urban Planning
Revise RIK/RLJTRK (Master Plan/Distnct Plan)
RTRK Toncano Selatan. Barat. and Timur
RTBL Tonoano town center
2  Housng                 Acquire 239. 000 m3 land
Construct 21.556 m roaas, 43, 110 dr2ins. 9,580 distnbution pipes
Install 1266 water connections
InstaII 87 communal septic tanks. 28 TPSs. and 47 MCKs
3  Water Supply           Construct 250 m2 othice *pace for PDAM
Construct 75 mz laboratory for POAM
Procure one package of laboratory equipment
4  Santation              Procure two 2-m3 garbage truck
Construct 21 type A MCKs
Install 558 tamily toilets
Install 516 septic tanks
Construct 3 communal seotc tanks
Prepare training, inmstruional, and study packages
5  Drainage               Construct 6. 8 km, new Crain
Clean 1.2 km Crain
Realign arid train 7.7 km. nver
Procure excavator
6  Urbatn Ro as            Rehabiiat;e 5 55 1kmI artenal roads
Rehabilitate 9.45 km. local secondary roads
Upgrade 81. 875 m2 are secondary rtannes
Upgrade 16.875 m2 of colleRor roads
Construct 32.000 m2 new mrtenaUcollector romas
7  Soid W\/aste Management  InstIIa 125 120- communal Itran brnS
Install 2.581 RT trasn bhns
Procure 39 1-m3 nandling carts
Procure 3 200-m2 transfer depots
Procure 10 8-m3 dump trucks
Prepare 9 08 ha. saniory landfill
Prepare informtison package for integrated waste management
Conduct two waste management stuclies
8 Urroan RenewalIKlP/MIIPl..Unoscape nousing area
Repair works in kamoung area
Rehaillitate 1. 192 m2 exsting buildings
Rehavilnate 400 m. market kiosks
Construct 2.000 m2 Of new martret pOStS
LanoscaDe 400 M2 or lane surrounaing market
Asprar 38 m2 road anc oarKing area
oros,rur, 8 fisr stalls
Provzie crans for 384i m2
insal: 54 rn of aDAM pioes
In:all I nivcrar'
InStal: IC tyoe C M:.=s
Insall 1 2 5 temite stalls
5  aur. 7ermmnais          Conou_: ;or aior s study
Accuire 20 000 rm' land
Prepare ce:aiiec oes:gn ol terminal
Construct regionat ous terminal



65
ANNEX 8
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVING MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
During project preparation and appraisal, some key needs in the management of local governments were
identified with respect to the provision of municipal infrastructure and services. These needs are typical for
smaller, more remote local governments in all countries. The implementation support strategy is therefore
designed to be flexible and relevant for each community.
The key areas of need, generic to all Sulawesi communities are described below. Actions over the five
year project period will be targeted in these seven areas.
1.    Accountability. There is a need for greater local responsibility for actions taken and increased debate
on why certain decisions are made. Staff need to feel empowered to present solutions most suitable for their
specific community.
2.    Job Understanding. There is limited understanding on the part of some workers regarding their roles
and responsibilities.
3.     Financial Management. There is limited analysis of the costs of individual tasks or operations, and
hence is not clear if available money is being spent wisely.
4.     Professionalism. Young engineers and other professionals joining local governments from university
need greater mentoring and support.
5.     Public Consultation. There is a need for greater consultation on service levels and infrastructure needs
to increase ownership. Many activities appear to be developed in isolation from the community and only
afterwards are affected members of the community advised of government intentions.
6.     Staff Development. Planned programs of staff training and development, especially in the smaller
towns, are necessary to increase the quality of service.
7.     Private Sector. Many areas of service delivery can be performed by private sector contractors at
considerable savings.



66
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREASED PRIVATE SECTOR AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
Communities in Sulawesi already have some limited experience in using the private sector. However in
many conmmunities the private sector is poorly developed and is often reluctant to enter into government
contracts.
A three part action plan will be implemented to enhance the role of the private sector. First, the
inclusion of an experienced municipal manager in the assistance tcam to support development of a community
specific program. Private Sector investments in selected subprojects , and the entire implementation support
team providing five years of continuous assistance to local governments.
Each community would be assisted in the first year to prepare a simple strategy that identifies the
following:
* services that could be carried out by the private sector with their current capabilities;
* services that the local governments would like to see carried out by the private sector in the future;
* mechanisms to strengthen local businesses, and a timetable;
* constraints within the existing government organization for further involving the private sector;
- improvements needed to the systems and procedures for awarding and supervising contracts.
Following, is an indicative list of areas to be evaluated by the private sector expert during project
implementation.
Roads. Private sector involvement in the road sector could include: road design and needs assessment;
major construction; overlay of existing roads; minor and major repairs; street sweeping and drainage ditch
maintenance; supply of asphalt and other building materials; road marking; and traffic light maintenance.
Water Supply. Services which could be provided by the PS range from water meter reading to area
franchises, and include water sales by tanker truck or in containers.
Markets. Private sector involvement could include: daily cleansing and waste removal;
building maintenance; fee collection and allocation of stalls; and provision of the entire infrastructure.
Waste Management. PSP in waste management could cover areas such as: full operation of TPAs,
including siting, and land ownership; equipment provision and/or operation;
composting; waste collection - primary and secondary; vehicle and equipment servicing and maintenance; street
sweeping; and septic tank emptying and IPLT operation.
Slaughterhouses.   Local governments should consider phasing out the public operation of
slaughterhouses and instead enforce guidelines for the safe and hygienic operation of these facilities through a
simple license system. The private sector should be encouraged to operate the slaughterhouses.
Transport Terminals. For existing facilities, maintenance, fee collection and vending permits could be
carried out by the private sector. Licensing terminal operations (even including land and facility construction);
management contracts are all options that should be explored.



67
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Drainage. Maintenance of small local drains could be better carried out by the private sector. Larger
scale drain cleaning can also be effectively tied with solid waste collection, as in Jakarta.
Building and Vehicle Maintenance.  Simple maintenance contracts beginning with standard
housekeeping services should be considered by local governments and eventually expanded to include major
renovations.
Pooling service areas. Local governments should explore possibilities for economies of scales by
combining some service areas, e.g. regional TPA for both Rantepao and Makale.



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI II - UDP)
PROJECT SUMMARY
13-Aug-96
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
No.                       U R A IA N                          _Blaya Dasar (Base Cost) dalam Jutaan Rp
TA            TA            TA            TA            TA          Jumlah
_________________________________________  96197  W71M _      9999          99100         00101        5 Tahun
1    Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemukiman                        1,358 4     21,105.5        9,835.3       4,643 4       3,089 9      40,032.6
2    Air Bersih                                                307.7       27,594.7      40,092 6      14,062 5       4.787 6      86,845.2
3    Air Limbah                                               1,816 7       8,5265       14.177 3       2,074.0         977.5      27,571 9
4     Persampahan                                             6,213 4      14,611.7      26,588.5       5,706 1       3,409.4      56.529 2
5     Drainase                                                2,587.3      23,783 4      38,137.2      31,141.4      19,783 4     115,432.6
6     Terminal                                                1,107.5      11,340 9       6,673.5       1,510.8                    20,632.7
7     Jalan Kota                                             15,843.1      57,755.3      31.8361       14,671.9       5,599.7     125,706.0                                              0o
Sub-Total Base Cost    29,234.1   164,718.1   167,340.4               73,810.3      37,647.4   472,750.2
Contingencles
Kontingensi (10%)                                    2,923 4      16,471 6      16,734 0       7,381 0       3,764 7      47,275 0
PPN (10%)                                            3.215 7      18,119 0      16,407 4       6,1191        4,141.2      52,002 5
Overheads / Biaya Umum (4%)                          1,169 4       6.588 7       6,693.6       2,952.4       1,505.9      18.910 0
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                          36,542.6    205,897.6    209,175.5         92,262.8      47,059.3    590,937.8
Price Contingencies"                                                  9.903 7      20e606.6      13.964 2       9,728 7      54,203 2
TOTAL PROYEK (current prices)                        36,542.6   215,801.2   229,782.1    106,227.0           56,788.0   645,140.9
DED dan SUPERVISION                                                 5,627.3       5,627.3       5,627.3       5,627.3      22,509.0
TRAINING                                                             1,130.0       1,130.0       1,130.0       1,130.0       4,520.0
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                              5,390.0       5,390.0       5,390.0        5,390.0     21,560.0
UNALLOCATED                                                                                                   5,004.4        5,004.4
O  . P alas Proyek Baru                                               1.083 2      14,41 0. 0    33,153.4      40 618d2      89264.                                             
Total Proyek IBRD (termasuk O&P)                     36,542.6   229,031.7   256,339.3   151,527.6   114,557.9   787,999.1
.Hargadasart~t~1996 (bas.cosd) 8sesua,kan derVanindas~,.4.9%b,agberbiLgapeiltshun 4.8% name deean 6%,nflas dIndWones,a
dkcakkan 65% dan Sceys proyek dan 2,6%A inl%s  hcakr Indkmonek ank/can 35% dari baya proyekc 



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI II - UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI SELATAN
PROViNCIAL SUMMARY
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
No                    URAIAN                                      yaOesart8aseCt1dalamJutaanRp
TA         TA          TA          TA          TA        Jumlah
___________________________________          96197      97196       96199       99100       00101     STahuri
1    Peibaikan Perumahan dun Pemukiman               3428      11,9327      5,229.0    21637       16052      21,2735
2    Air Bersih                                       226      18,1018     224804      8.5498      1735.5     50.8900
3    Air Limbah                                      2747       6,5507      8.9250     1,2081        8689     17.8253
4    Persampahan                                    4,3139      9,9402     16,4632     3.8174      3.1662     37,7010
5    Drainase                                       1.1169     13,3857     21,9423     13,9503    11.9536     82,3487
6    Terminal                                        3787       7,1243      39261        7661                 12,1952
7    Jalan Kota                                    12.402 6    36.065 2    21,361 6    11,445 8    4.278 6    85.554 0
Sub-Total Base Cost   18,852.3  103,100.5  100,327.9   41,901.0    23,605.9  287,787.7
Contingencies
Kontingensi (10%)                            1,8652     103101     10.0328      41901       2,3606     26.7788
PPN (10%)                                   2,0738      11.3411    11 036 1     4.609 1     25966      31.6566
Overheads/Siaya Urnum (4%)                    7541      4,1240      4.0131      16760        9442      115115
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                  23,565.4   128,875.6   125,409.9    52,376.3    29,507.3   359,734.6
Price Contingencies                                       6,1989     12,354 6    7,927 3     6.100 1    32,580 9
TOTAL PROYEK (current prices)                23,565.4  135,074.5  137,764.5    60,303.6    35,607.5  392,315.5
DED dan SUPERVISION                                      3,231.0     3,231.0     3,231.0     3,231.0    12,924.0
TRAINING                                                   621.5       621.5       621.5       621.5     2,486.0
0 & P atas Prayek Baru                                      7875       9.1504     19.8891    24.1586     53,9856
p.
Total Proyck IBRD(termasukO&P)               23,565.4  139,714.5  150,767.4   84,045.2    63,618.5  461,711.1                                         z
Hargadasar tahL,, 1996 (base cost) dsesuekan dangan mntasi. 48% btz19a becbzt9a pe talul 4.8% serve dengan 6% mntesi 8 IndOnesia
8lcalkan 65% dan biaya proyely dan 2,6% nt'ma 8bAr Indonesia dkahksn 35% dan tmsaya proyet
0
0



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11 - UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI TENGGARA
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
No.                      URAIAN                                      .. l!ayar(Dasa  Oe Cos dalamJutaan R
TA           TA            TA            TA           TA          Jumlah
96197        97198         98199        9910          00101       5 Tahun
I    Perbaikan Penumahan dan Pemukiman                        20.0       6,206.5       1,215.6        500.5         174.2       8,116.7
2    Air Bersih                                                16.6      4,342.1       6,184.4       2,402.6       1,096.5     14,042.3
3    Air Limbah                                              749.9         668.3         612.4        232.4         101 4       2,364.4
4    Persampahan                                             479.3        1,803.5      1,523.5        637.4         184.3       4,628.0
5    Drainase                                                531.2       3,132.5       3,993.5       4,190.0      4,112.0      15,959.2
6    Terminal                                                106.6        1,966.8        712.5        170.0                     2,955.9
7    Jalan Kota                                             2,367.0      11,693.2      5,879.3       1,661 6       1,131.1     22,732.1
Sub-Total Base Cost         4,270.5    29,812.8       20,121.3       9,794.4       6,799.5    70,798.6
Contingencies
Konengensi (10%)                                     427.0       2,981.3       2,012.1        979.4         680.0       7,079.9
PPN (10%)                                            469.8       3,279 4       2,213 3       1,077 4        747 9       7.787 8
Overheads / Biaya Umum (4%)                          170.8       1,192.5        804.9         391.8         272.0       2,831.9
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                          5,338.1      37,266.1     25,151.7      12,243.0       8,499.4     88,498.3
Price Contingencies"                                                1,792.5      2,477.8       1,853.0       1,757.1      7,880.4
TOTAL PROYEK (current prices)                       5,338.1      39,058.6     27,629.5    14,096.0    10,256.5    96,378.6
DED dan SUPERVISION                                                798.75       798.75        798.75        798.75       3,195.0
TRAINING                                                           169.50       169.50        169.50        169.50         678.0
O & P atas Proyek Barnu                                              106 6       2,391.1       4,598.7       5,638.0     12,734.4
1  1                                                                                -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~< >
Total Proyek IBRD (terrnasuk O&P)                   5,338.1      40,133.4    30,988.8    19,663 0         16,862.7   112,986.0                  T                   Z
Harga dasar tam, 1996 (base cost) cdsesum*kan dengmn irntasi, 4,8% bunlga betunga per taun. 4,8% sanma dangan 6% inftasi dl Indnea
dlkalkan 65% dan biaya proyek dan 2.6% ifisi dekr Indonesia dkalkan 35% dari biay  oekX
-as_
_-O



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11 - UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI TENGAH
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
No.                      U R A IAN                                         Ba Dasar (Base Cost) dalam Jutaan Rp
TA           TA           TA            TA           TA          Jumiah
96197        97198        98199        99100         00101       5 Tahun
1    Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemukiman                      955.1       1,257 7        724 6         597 2        342 0       3,876.6
2    Air Bersih                                                         1,316 7       4,874.5      1,625 4       1,100 0      8,916 6
3    Air Limbah                                             310 6         571 6       2,204 6        492 6          2.2       3.581 4
4    Persampahan                                            441 3       1,573 0       3.882 3         34 2         29 8       5,960.6
s    Drainase                                               257 2       3,324 2       3,980 5      2.732 2        967 6      11.261 7
6    Terminal                                               572 2         831.7       1,916.2         97 4                    3.417 5
7    Jalan Kota                                            1,073 5      3,177 5       3.045 9      1.402 0        190.0       8,888 9
Sub-Total Base Cost        3,609.8    12,052.3    20,628.6          6,981.0      2,631.6    45,903.3
Contingencies
Kontingensi (10%)                                   361 0       1,205 2      2.062 9        6981          263 2       4,590 3
PPN (10%)                                           397 1       1,325 8      2,269 1        767 9         289 5       5.049 4
Overheads / Biaya Umum (4%)                         144 4        482 1         825 1        279 2         105 3       1,8361
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                         4,512.3      15,065.3     25,785.7      8,726.3       3,289.5     57,379.1
Price Contingencies"                                                724 6       2,540 2      1.320 7        680 0       5.265 7
TOTAL PROYEK (current prices)                       4,512.3    15,790.0    28,326.0    10,047.0          3,969.5    62,644.8
DED dan SUPERVISION                                               798.75       798.75        798.75       798.75       3,195.0
TRAINING                                                          169.50       169.50        169.50       169.50         678.0
O & P atas Proyek Baru                                              150 0       1.187 2      3.700 3       4,390 1      9,427 5
Total Proyek IBRD (termasuk O&P)                    4,512.3    16,909.2    30,481.4    14,715.6          9,327.8    75,945.3>
Harga dasar tahun 1996 (base cost) dsesuaLikan dergan infas, 4.8% bW  berbwsga per :ahLwn 418% samZ derx2an 6% n3bs c , Indo b3sa
dkakkan 65% dan baya proyek dan 2.6% infs d6kjar Indoresa 6kahkan 35% dan boaya proyek
-o



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11- UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI UTARA
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
No.                     U R A IA N       T       AT                           A        (_t Cost) dalam Ja Rp
TA           TA           TA            TA           TA          Jumlahi
9M37         3713         NM   "         100         00om        5 Tahun
1    Perbaikan Perunahan dan Pemukiman                       40.5       1,708.7      2,666.1       1,382.0        968.6       6,765.9
2    Air Bersih                                             268.5       3,834.1      6,553.3       1,484.9        855.6      12,996.4
3    Air Limbah                                             481.5         736.0      2,435.3        141.0           7.0       3,800.8
4    Persampahan                                            978.9       1,295.1       4,719 5      1,217.1         29.0       8,239.6
5    Drainase                                               682.0       3,941.1      8,220.8      10,268.9      2,750.3      25,863.1
6    Terminal                                                50.0       1,418.1        118.6        477.3                     2,064.0                                  N
7    Jalan Kota                                                         6,819.4       1,549.0       162.5                     8,530.9
Sub-Total Base Cost        2,501.4    19,752.4    26,262.6        15,133.8       4,610.5    68,260.7
Contingencies
Kontrngensi (10%)                                   250.1       1,975.2      2,626.3       1,513.4        461.0      6,826.1
PPN (10%)                                           275 2       2.172.8      2,888.9       1,664.7        507.2       7,508 7
Overheads I Biaya Umum (4%)                         100.1        790.1       1,050.5        605.4         184.4      2,730.4
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                         3,126.8     24,690.5      32,828.2     18,917.2       5,763.1     85,325.8
Prce Contingencies"                                               1,187.6       3,234.0      2,863.2       1,191.4      8,476.2
TOTAL PROYEK (current prices)                      3,126.8    25,878.2    36,062.2        21,780.4       6,964.5    93,802.0
DED dan SUPERVISION                                              798.75        798.75       798.75        798.75      3,195.0
TRAINING                                                          169.50       169.50       169.50        169.50        678.0
O & P atas Proyek Baru                                               39.2       1,681.3      4,965.2       6,431.6     13,117.3
=  Total Proyek IBRD (termasuk 08P)                3,126.8    26,885.6    38,711.8        27,713.8    14,354.4   110,792.3                                    (    >
Harga dasar tahun 1996 (base cost) diesuaikan dengan intlasi, 4,8% bunga berbunga per tahun. 4,8% sama dengan 6% inflasi di Indonesia                                 Ul  Y
dikalikan 65% dan biaya proyek dan 2,6% infasi diuar Indonesa dikalikan 35% dan baya proyek                                                                           O    O
0



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11- UDP)
PROJECT SUMMARY
13-Au96
FUNDING SOURCES SUMMARY
TANGGUNGJAWAB
No.                   URAIAN                        Toddl            Pup*               Th  I            TI                        PINJAMAN                       PDOA                                      Total
Harp       APBN        APBN                                          SPArP        SLA       SPABP                                                      Harga
(Jutaan)     9LN         DIP       APSO I       PAD        In_pra      Tk k       ISRD         Th I      MURNt        SLA        rakat      Swada      (Jutasn)
I   Perbakan Perumahan dan Peoukiman                40.032 6                            1.105 7    3.756 0    15.271 9     8 434 2   t1 464 7                                                              40.032 6
2   Air Bersih                                      86.845 2    37.597 9   203102                                                                             5895 9    23.0412                            86845 2
3   Air Llmbah                                      27.5719     4.8088      5.053 9      757 1    10.843 2     2.463 9      580 a     2 929 2       135 0                                                   27.571 9
4   Permamrphan                                     56.5292      8.104 4    6.293 1      7366      13.5493     7.00 6     12.358 0    B.47 3                                                                56.529 2
s    Dramase                                       115.432 6    19.896 a   17.926 7    14,658.4    12.527 6   21.013 2    29.409 9                                                                         115.432 6
6    Terminal                                       20,632 7                             5261       2.603 8    3.020 7                14 482 0                                                              20 632 7
7   Jaian Kota                                     125.7060     19.8674     7.4592     11.7355                38.018.6    37.3632                11.5032                                                   125.7060
Sub-TobI ba  Cost  472,750.2   90,034.3   57,043.0   29,51.A    43,279.9 S6,7S.3   36,146.1    37,353.3   11,638.2    5,395.9   23,041.2                                      472.750.2
Confitngemc.s
Kam IgW   (10%)                              47.275 0    9.003 4     5.704 3     2.951 9    4.328 0     8.6799     8 814 6     3 735 3     1.163 8      589 6     2 304 1                           47.275 0
PPN (10%) - Rt-t                             52.002 5               16.178 5     4.527 3    9.863 9    18.449 7                                        3.183 1                                      52.002 5
Overtt I aD       Umuiwm (4%)                18.910 0                5.8131      1.646 3    3.514 2     6.709 0                                        1.1575                                        18.910 0
SUO TOTAL (coar t prnc*s                     590so837.8    99,037.T    64,806.9    36,645.0    60,736.0   120.6375    96,960.7    41,088.7    12,802.0    10,626.1    25.345.3                       890,937.6
Price Contrigenrcies                           54.203 2    9.5372      8 125 2     3.556 8    48469      10.727 0     9.331 8    2.883 5     1.047 9     1.1631     2.983 9                            54 203 2
PROYEIK SUB TOTAL (cunufet prm)             645,140.3  108,575.0   92,934.1   42,201.8   65,632.3  131,364.4  106,292.5   43,972.2   13,349.8   111,98S.2   21,329.1                                645,140.9
DED dan SUPERVISION                           22,509 0                                                                                     22.509 0                                                  22.509 0
TRAINING                                       4.520 0    4,520 0                                                                                                                                     4,520 0
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                        21,560 0    17,248 0    4,312 0                                                                                                                        21.560 0
UNALLOCATED                                    5,004 4    4,253.8                                                                 750 7                                                               5.004 4
0 A P atas Pv)yek Baru    89.264 8                                       53.786 1                                                  35.4787                                        89.264 6
Total Prelk IBRD R(t.rmasuk OLP)             787,99.1  154,596.7   97,246.1   42,2011.   119,41.9  1311,364.4  106,292.5   44,722.3    3.356.    47,467.9   28,329.1                                737,999.1    
l4rg.   bI., 198 ..... - ".sag)  Aa   pn a, 4% No b.... p.r. lI,  4 ...... d^.ng , sil,, -^ .4.... a.h 89 .w .a. ...         ,w . ,. 4a..35  aby. p l



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI 11 - UDPJ
PROPINSI SULAWESI SELATAN
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
FUNDING SOURCES SUMMARY
TANGGUNG4jA WAB                       ____________
No.                      U R Al A N                        Total               P*,at                Tk I               TA GGU   PINJAMAN                                                 PDAM                                           Total
Hra   APBN         APBN4                                                SPABP          SLA         SPABP                                   Maria-                     Harga
(ua n          RLN          DiP         APRD t        PAD          Inprs         Tk If        ISRO          T6          MURNI         SLA          rkat        Swasta       lJutan)
I    Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemukiman                     21.273 5                                   4733       2.248 1       7.694 4      4.718 0      6.139 7                                                                        21,273
2    Air Bersih                                            50.8900       23.728 7     11.916 0                                                                                      3,173 3     12.072 0                                50.890 0
3    Air Limbah                                             17.825 3      1949 0       2 122 0        496 8       9,371 0      1 735 1        434 6       1,574 9       135 0                                                           17.825 3
4    Persampahan                                           37 701 0       3 641 7      2.755 3        229 7      11.403 4      4.611 6     11 195 9      3 063 1                                                                        37 701 0
5    Drainase                                              62.348 7       7 932 4      6 764 9      6.572 3      11.575 1     10,164 8     19.339 2                                                                                     82.348 7
a    Terminal                                               12.195 2                                  448 7       1.527 9      1.862 6                   8 356 0                                                                        12 195 2
7    Jalan Kota                                            80,.54 0      10.762 7      3,280 6      9,813 0                   26,250 2     25.827 8                    9.619 2                                                          85.554 0
Sub-Total Base Cost   287,787.7    48,014.5    26,838.9    18,034.2    36,132.5    52,318.9    61,515.5    19,933.7                   9,754.2      3,173.3    12,072.0                                287,787.7
Contingencies
Konthgensi (10%)                                   28 778 8      4 801 4      2.683 9       1.803 4      3 613 2      5 2319        6 151 5      1.993 4        975 4        317 3       1.207 2                                28 778 8
PPN (10%). Reallocated                             31.656 6x.233 9                          3.056 7      7,546 7     11.142 4                                               1 677.0                                             31,856 6
Owheads I Bsmya Umum (41)                          11.511 5                   2.994 1       1,111 s      2.744 2      4.0516                                                 509.8                                              1 !.511 s
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                        359,734.6    52,815.9       40,750.8     24,005.9      50,036.6     72744.9      67,667.0      21,927.1     10,729.6      5,77.4      13,279.2                               359,734.6
Price Contingencies"                                  32,580 9      5107 2       3,693 2      2,028 1       4.371 1      6.303 2      6.540 9       1,515 7       957 2         644 1       1.520 3                               32.580 9
PROYEK SUB TOTAL (current prices)                  392,315.5    57,923.1    44,444.1        26,034.0    54,407.7    79,048.1    74,207.9    23,442.8    11,586.8             6,421.5    14,799.5                                392,315.5
DED dan SUPERVISION                                 12,924 0                                                                                                   12,924.0                                                          12.924 0
TRAINING                                             2,486.0       2,486.0                                                                                                                                                        2.486 0
0 6 P atas Proyek Baru       53.95s  6                                             32.530 0                                                          21 455.6                                             53.9856
Total Proyek IBRO (termnasuk O&P)                  461,711.1    60,409.1    44,444.1    26,OU4.0    86,937.7    79,048.1    74,207.9    23,442.8    24,510.8    27,077.1    14,799.6                                           461,711.1
'l4a~48   lae., 99611r col) Oso.AW  ~, ,4he489 b.g. b~6op. .145w  4% .,r, de~,, % n.a.9 lnra,~a 598a4 6% d,, 540 pWye dn 26% ,l16jk~, Idonera 0.4443% da ba. rey.
0 ;
07



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI If- UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI TENGAH
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
FUNDING SOURCES SUMMARY
TANGGUNGJAWAB
No.                      U R A IAN                        Toa         A      Pusal               Tk I                T                 5PABP      PINJAMAN                           PDAM                                          Total
Huga         APBN         AP8N                                               SPABP          LA         SPAB                                   May-Harga
(Jutan)       BLN           DIP        APSD I        PAD          Inpres       Tk 9         18RD O         k I       MURNI          SLA         rakat       Swata        Jutan)
Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemukiman                         3.876 6                                  193 6       264 3       2.210 7      1.005 4       202 6                                                                        3.876 6
2    Air Bersih                                            8,916 6      1.802 9      1.933 9                                                                                       518       5,127 9                                Bs16 6
3    Air Limbah                                            3,58i14      1.330 6      1.357 4         76 0        234 4         91 0                     492 0                                                                       3.5814
4    Persampahan                                           5.960 6      1.669 4      1.249 7        64 9         276 2        456 6        220 0      2.023 9                                                                       5.960 6
5    Drainase                                             11.261 7      1,833 5      1.870 5      2.006 3                   2.564 1      2.487 2                                                                                   11.261 7
6    Terminal                                              3.417 5                                   25 0        8965         366 4                   2.129 6                                                                       3.417 5
7    Jalan Kota                                            8,e9 9       1.667 9       4121          30 3                    3.408 2      3.340 7                      29 7                                                          8,888 9
Sub-Total Base Cost    45,903.3         8,304.2      6,823.7      2,896.1      1,671.4      9,097.0      7,053.3      4,848.1         29.7         51.8      5,127.9                               45,903.3   -
Contingemies
Kotrnigens (10%)                                   4.590 3       830 4        682 4        289 6         167 1       909 7        705 3        484 0          30 5o          2        512 8                                 4,590 3
PPN (10%) - R.allocaled                            5.049 4                   1.664 1       321 8        590 I       1,943 6                                              569 6                                              5,049 4
Omhelrds / Boys Umum (4%)                          1.836 1                    605 1         117 0       200 0         706 8                                               207 2                                             1.836 1
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                        57,379.1       9.134.7      9,775.3      3,624.6      2,588.6    12,657.0       7,758.7      5,332.9         32.7       833.9       5,640.7                               57,379.1
Price Contingencies                                  5.265 7        8718         924 0        413 5        107 9       1,029 3       703 4        385 6          3 2        1005         720 4                                 5.265 7
PROYEK SUB TOTAL (currerFt prlces)                 62,644.8    10,006.5    10,699.3        4,038.1      2,696.4    13,686.4       8,462.1      5,718.5         35.9        940.4      6,361.2                               62,644.8
DED dan SUPERVISION                                 3,195 0                                                                                                 3,195.0                                                          3,195.0
TRAINING                                              678 0        678.0                                                                                                                                                       678 0
O & P alas Proyek Baru        9 427 5                                             6.292 4                                                          3.1351                                              9,4275
Trtal Proyek IBRD (termasul O&P)                   75,945.3    10,684.5    10,699.3        4,038.1      8,S88.8    13,686.4       8,462.1      6,718.5      3,230.9      4,075.6      6,361.2                               76,946.
*-Hr 64 s lu 1996(6654 edst dra.kn  a4engu sf.s 6.6 bo81  rg. 8e>8rg pe 14, 46% rs s4mng.n 6% of.,, ' O1#lo,,. d   n6 65% d85 bl i osykdno 28 36% , 555dl6 In,5n.5 96a6au  3S%o  O s, 6o,n b ooye 
o0r
0



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI II - UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI TENGGARA
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
FUNDING SOURCES SUMMARY
____ ___ ___ ____   __ ___ _  _ ____ ___ ___ ___ TANGGUNG.JAWAB
No.                     URAIAN                         Total             P.,.,               Tk I              Tk I                        P_NtJAMAN                         POAM                                        Total
Marga       AP6N        APBN                                             SPABP         SLA        SPABP                                 "arw-                    Merge
_____________  Josan)  BLN  DtP       APBDI        PAD         Inp *.       Tku         IBRO         Tk I       lURNt         SLA         nkat       Sw.         (Julaun)
1    Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemubiman                  8.116 7                               438 8        987.4      2.415.3     1.214 6      3 060.6                                                                  8S116 7
2    Air Bersih                                        14 042 3     7 876 8      2.095 9                                                                                 804 0      3 265 6                              14.042 3
3    Air Limbah                                         2.364.4       361 9       383.5        52 3        844 7       333.8         74 2       3136                                                                      2.364 4
4    Persampahan                                        4.628 D       515 5       525.9        192 0       640 3      1.070.8        23 8      i.6597                                                                     4.628 0
S    Drainase                                          15.859 2     3,749 8      3.571.0     3,374 5       267.6      3.216.2      1.780 0                                                                               15,959.2
6    Terminal                                           2.955.9                                            139 9        106.6                  2.709 5                                                                   2,955 9
7    Jalan Kota                                        22.7321      4.7370       3.045 3     1538.2                   6.011.4     5.8924                   1.507 8                                                      22,732.1
Sub-Total Base Cost   70,798.6    17,241.0         9,621.6     5,595.91    2,1110.1    13,154.1     8,985.0      7.743.6     1,507.8       804.0      3.265.6                             70.798.6
Contingencles
Ko011n9e9r (10%)                                7.079 9      1,7241       962 2        5596        288 0      1315.4        898 5        774 4       150 8        80.4        326 6                               7.079 9
PPN (10%) - Redcald                             7,787 8                  2,954 9       781 4       895.2      2.706 7                                            447 7                                            7.787 8
O"eheads / BiyUUTn (4%)                         2 8319                   1.074 5       2841        325 5        985 0                                             162 8                                           2 8319
SUB TOTAL (consbnt prices)                       88,498 3    18,965.1    14,613.2      7,221.0     4,388.0     1 8,163.3    9,883.5      8,518.0     1,658.5      1,494.8     3,592.2                             98,498.3
Price Contingencies                               7880 4       1,768 6     1.434 2       720.7        224 0      1.558 6      840.6        5611        158.2        155 7       458 7                               7.8804
PROYEK SUR TOTAL (currant price)                96,378.6    20,733.6    16,047.4       7,941.7     4,612.9    19,721.9    10,724.1      9,079.1      1,816.7     1,650.5     4,050.8                              96.378.6
DED dan SUPERVISION                              3.195 0                                                                                             3,195 0                                                       3.195 0
TRAINING                                           678 0       678 0                                                                                                                                                678 0
0 & P atas Proyek Banu      12.734 4                                          7.208.3                                                       5,526.0                                          12.734.4
Total Proyk IBERD (trmiasuk O&P)               112,98.60    21.4116    16,047.4        7,941.7    11,821.2    19.721.9    10,724.1       .07l        5,011.7     7,176.6     4,050.8                             11l2,68.0
HaIrp4.d.ow ua  1988(b... doe i".1wi. 4.199fie 4.6% b.,Ia 99r64 p. 'Let  4,8% .   aose 8% daus a ,oen.  SMO  45% 4.19w pros .1, d.2.% Ifi. a"w kalramd.. -  by3%    a 6.
0e 
o 0



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SULAWESI D - UDP)
PROPINSI SULAWESI UTARA
PROVINCIAL SUMMARY
FUNDING SOURCES SUMMARY
TANGGUNGJAWAB
No                       U R A I A N                       Total               Pusat                Tk I               Tk II                          PINJAMAN                           PDAM                                           Total
Marga        APBN         AP6N                                                 SPABP         SLA         sPA8P                                   Masya-                     Harga
(jut"n)        BLN          DIP         APBD I        PAD          Inpres        Tk II       1BRD           Tk I        MURNI         SLA          r.kt        Swahta       (Jula.n)
1    Perbaikan Perumahan dan Pemukiman                      6 765 9                                                256 2       2.951 6      1.496 2      2 061 8                                                                         6 765 9
2    Air Bersih                                             12,996 4      4,189        4 4,364 4                                                                                    1.866 9      2.5756                                 12 996 4
3    Air Limbah                                              3.800 a      1.167 3      1.190 9         32 0        386 0         304 0         720         548 5                                                                         3 800 E
4    Persampahan                                            8.239 6       2,277 8      1,762 1        2500        1.229 4        971 4        918 3        930 6                                                                         9 239 6
5    Drainase                                               25.863 1      6.381 1      5.720 2      2.205 4        684 7       5.068 2      5.803 5                                                                                     25 663 1
6    Terminal                                                2.064 0                                   52 4         39 6         685 1                    1 287 0                                                                        2 064 0
7    Jalan Kota                                             8.530 9       2.458 9        721 1        353 5                    2.348 7      2.302 2                     3468 s5309                                                                     _t
Sub-Total Bas. Cost    68,260.7    16,474.6    13,758.8             2,993.2      2,598.9    12,229.0    10,692.3         4,827.9        346.5      1,866.9       2,576.6                               68,260.7
Contingencies
Konflg5l.f  (10%)                                   6.826 I       1 647 s      1.375 9        299 3        259 6       1.222 9      1.059 2        482 8         34 7          6 7         257 6                                 6 826 1
PPN (10%) - Reallocated                             7,508 7                    3 325 7        367 4        672 0       2.654 9                                               488 7                                               7 508 7
OCetOcads / Btaya Umum (4%)                         2 730 4                    1,209 3        133 6        244 4        965 4                                                 177 7                                              2 730 4
SUB TOTAL (constant prices)                          85,325.8     18,122.1     19,669.6       3,793.5      3,771.8     17,072.2      11,651.5      5,310.7        381.2       2,720.0      2,833.2                                85,325.8
Price Contingencies"                                   8 476 2      1 789 6       2 073 8       3945          143 9       1.835 8      1.246 9        421 1         29 3        256 7         284                                   0 8 476 2
PROYEK SUB TOTAL (current prices)                   93,802.0    19,911.7    21,743.4         4,188.0       3,915.8    18,908.1    12,898.4         6,731.8        410.5      2,976.7       3,117.7                               93,802 0
DED dan SUPERVISION                                   3,195 0                                                                                                   3,195 0                                                            3.195 0
TRAINING                                               678 0         678 0                                                                                                                                                          678 0
0 & P alas Proyek Baru        13,117 3                                              7,755 4                                                           5.361 9                                              13 117 3
Total Proyek ISRO (termasuk O&P)                   110,792.3    20,59.7    21,74.3.4          4,188.0  11,671.1        18,908.1    12,898.4        5,731.8      3,60.5       8,338.7       3,1177                               110,792.3
m.g94 d.-a th.1 1996 (b.. C6 c sest) l%,Ikmt 6.09 04's. 4.8%  boeb-ppt.h41  4.9% .an,fla .6%.11%  fl.,8.,'U4 .  6.6k.065% 4.. by,proy¶e9d.n2.6% uVi,, kn 1.0~-0e,a84kae35%d4.0bayaproyek
oI



SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scmds of IUIDP Annual Aditiles on Prommg  Imp*enuion & Reporting Interrelionship
Id rUN"Ym                                                2iundngyu                          kiJr 
Apr May Jun  Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec, Jan Feb Mar Ap
1 I
I A.
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed Ik~ g         
PIumuuC*d3hmg
KR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
]~~~~~~Gy                    6rst          GOY't         GOWi          kit         .,6o., v. 
]~~~~~O-           ft : ! OI-|    Ftw.ddUt-; FTSKn 03  _       mmd U-- ;rvbd *   U T         03.3        P ,', ; . . 1X
No                 nl0                                                no W   i i ;  ! .S ¢ 'trr |Ul9  0'
* .    bpst                       '.   NM
ML                                           ML m                       m 
E  "01-    T~h",           h"x 01-3      FiAi 14        he  OR-1     Pr"AW01.2      ?f *d1-3      Prv*  QR 
-usl  T  wuza   i   w,".J  i  wlu~~~~L  t1,w ,   X-+ 1iwgu1-        tK b"1 U1-3    Lk 1  -I UN4                    X



79
ANNEX 12A
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PROVINCIAL PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION MEMORANDUM (PPIM)
Each Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM) will be prepared in the form of a GOI
inter-departmental Memorandum of Understanding to be signed by the Chairperson of TKPP on behalf of the
sector policy agencies, the Director General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) as project executing agency
and the Govemor of the respective Province as the lead implementing agency. The PPIM content should, at
minimum, include:
a.     A clear definition of respective roles and responsibilities for each participant in the project
implementation process;
b.     Confirmation of processes and schedules for project implementation, including inter alia:
-      updating of Technical Memorandum and other program guidance
-      preparation and appraisal of PJM and related documents
-      review and approval of APIPs for local programs
-      budget consultations and approvals
-      procedures for SLA approvals
-      schedules for prompt issuance of annual SPABP allocations
-      procurement processing and standard documents used
-      project accounting and auditing arrangements
-      progress reporting and monitoring, including priority targets
-      conduct of the formal annual review of project status
-      performance incentives/disincentives for local goverrment
-      PDAM tariff adjustments (see loan covenants)
c.     Staffing and support arrangements in key units (PPMU, Kanwil, et al)
d.     Employment of advisors or consultants
e.     Preparation of Project Completion Report for SULUDP-2 in 2001
f.     Other matters the parties wish to clarify or define.
g.     All other general provisions described in Part A of Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.



80
ANNEX 12B
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUTLINE OF AN ANNUAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (APIIP)
Background references Include references to the (a) Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program,
and (b) the Bank Loan for the Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project.
Objectives of the APIP (a) Provides framewvork and guidelines for the implementation of Sub-projects under
the SULUDP-2; (b) defines institutional responsibilities of the respective Sulawesi Province, Participating Local
Governments (PLGs) and Participating PDAMs;(c) details performance indicators and monitorable targets which
would be used to monitor progress in implementation during the annual Project reviews; (d) is meant to be a flexible
working document to be adjusted, if necessary, every year; and (e) would be made available to all PLGs and PDAMs
to inform them of their obligations and responsibilities for the implementation of the Sub-projects.
The Province of South, Southeast, North and Central Sulawesi and the Participating Local Government of
(name) and its Participating PDAM [if applicable] shall take all necessary measures to implement the Sub-projects
detailed below as follows:
Section 1. Sub-projects
Description of all Sub-projects to be carried out during the upcoming fiscal year in a given region. An Annex
to the APIP will provide a clear identification of these Sub-projects indicating the PLG/PDAM responsible for
implementation. Reference should also be made to the approval procedure/date for such Sub-projects (Cross-reference
to Schedule 5 to LA: Sub project approval)
Section 2. Technical criteria and guidelines
Supplemental documentation pertaining to the feasibility of the Sub-project to be attached, as well as other
evidence of technical criteria/guidelines followed during the design and preparation of the Sub-project.
Section 3. Timetable for the implementation of Sub-projects
Implementation timetable including monitorable dates to be reviewed periodically.
Section 4.  Procurement
Procurement procedures (including institutional responsibilities for clearances and monitoring and
supervision) to be followed (Cross-reference to Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement and PPIM)
Preparation and processing of bidding documents.
Section 5. Financing of Sub-projects
Financing sources and timing (Agreements reached at negotiations) for the provision of such finds.
References to PJM.



81
ANNEX 12B
Page 2 of 2
Section 6.  Disbursement
Detailed procedures to ensure timely disbursement of funds to finance the Sub-projects, including Bank Loan,
SLAs, Grants (Cross-reference to Special Account. Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement)
Section 7.  Financial data
Financial reporting, maintaining appropriate documentation, accounting and auditing procedures (Cross-
reference to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement detailing the technical audits)
Section 8. O&M
Operations and Maintenance Targets.(Cross-reference to Schedule 5 to the, Loan Agreement. detailing O&M
under APIP)
Section 9. Environniental Guidelines and Resettlement
Implementation of Sub-projects to follow UKL/UPL Guidelines and Resettlement Guidelines. RAPs to be
prepared, if necessary, pursuant to Resetflement Guidelines ( SK Walikota. Surat Edaran). Define PLG's role in the
consultation process and grievance procedures. Community participation in all resettlement/compensation aspects.
(Cross -reference to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.)
Section 10. Remedial actions
Province to suspend/cancel financing of Sub-projects if use of funds is diverted from the agreed purposes.
Section 11. Technical assistance
Management and coordination of technical assistance financed under the Sub-projects.  Institutional
responsibilities.
Section 12. Training for PLG and PDAM staff
Describe training and staff to receive training.
Section 13. Annual Reviews
Assistance to Province/Participation of PLGs and PDAMs in the annual reviews (Cross-reference to Schedule
5 to the Loan Agreement).
ANNEXES:
PJM Summary, including RIAP/LIDAP actions
Sub-Project Memoranda
Summary of UKL/UPL Sub-project environmental screening
RAP (if required)
Priority targets for PLGs and PDAMs



ANNEX 13
82
THE IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION ARRANGEMENT SCHEME
OF SULUDP-2
. . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   .     . . . . . .   . . . . . .     . .   . .   .   . . . . . . . .   .   . . . . . .   . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . .     .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .  ..............
DEPOAGRi                          BAPPENAS                        DEP KEU                            DEP Pu
P    B    C
-.   . . . . .. .   .     . . .   . . . . . . . .  . . .   . . .   . . . .... . . . .   . . .   . . .  . .   . . ...
SETWILDA  DIAS             BAPPEDA                 KANWIL
- Biro Keu.          PU                                          PU
lK.
-Bro Prog               TK.A
l                                                                                                       i
PPMU   |.
~~~~~~~~................... ....... . .   1j...........                                           ......... .......... ...... 
(ii                                          |BUPATIANALIKOTA|
______|__~~~.                  . . .   . . . . .  . . . . . ..    
I'D~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
] PUSAT/TK I |||BUPATINLIKOTAl 
ETDA                     DINAS
----~- -----------na
FILE ~        ~           ~            DIPED                                                                                     KOORDINASI VS
Pimpro/Bagpro                                    PUimpmBagpro D                              PDAM              T.I
PUSATfTK            BAGKIUTK.I  I'                                  TK 
- - --   Ga is Korins
FIETEGINGANNE1  S



83
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
I_________         Exchange Rate (Rp/$) =    2,260
Fiscal Year Quarter Ending   Quarterly    Cumulative   Cumulative %
(US$ m)     (US$ m       of Loan (b)
1997      Dec 31, 1996     0.0          0.0           0%
Mar 31, 1997     5.0          5.0           3%
Jun 30, 1997    2.4           7.4          5%
1998      Sep 30, 1997     10.0         17.4          11%
Dec31, 1997     10.0         27.4          18%
Mar 31, 1998    10.0         37.4          24%
Jun 30, 1998    14.9         52.3          34%
1999      Sep30, 1998      11.0         63.3          41%
Dec31, 1998     11.0         74.3          48%
Mar 31, 1999    11.0         85.3          55%
Jun 30, 1999    17.4         102.7         66%
2000      Sep 30, 1999     6.5          109.2         70%
Dec 31, 1999     6.5         115.7         75%
Mar 31, 2000     6.5         122.2         79%
Jun 30, 2000    10.3         132.5         85%
2001      Sep 30, 2000     5.0          137.5         89%
Dec 31, 2000     5.0         142.5         92%
Mar 31, 2001     5.0         147.5         95%
Jun 30, 2001    7.5          155          100%



84                                                  ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
Comparison of Disbursement Profiles
(% disbursed)
Quarters from Board    SIJUDP    SULUDP-2  Urban Profile
1           0           0              0
2           0           3              0
3           5           5              3
4           5          11              6
5           5          18              8
6           5          24             10
7          11          34             16
8          18          41             22
9          22          48             28
10          25          55             34
11          31          66             40
12          41          70             46
13          44          75             52
14          50          79             58
15          55          85             64
16          63          89             70
17          68          92             74
18          70          95             78
19          72         100             82
20          81                         86
21 m          IL                       88
22                                     90
23              __ _ _ _ _94
24              ____                   98
25  _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _               98
26            L ____                   98
271           7 _                      99
281           T            1          100
100
90
80
70                            _                                 SIJUDP
J!60-
3                               5-0-- SULUDP-2
.0   50
bo   40                                                         -k-- Urban Profile
at   30
20
10
0
1  3  5  7  9  11  13 15 17 19 21  23 25 27
Quarters from Board



85
ANNEX 15
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Staffing and Schedule
Mission Dates                       Purpose                       Staffing Requirements (sw)
November 1996        Project Launch Workshop                 Urban Environm'1 Specialist (3 sw)
Municipal Mgmt Practitioner (2 sw)
Operations Officer (4 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
Lawyer (I sw)
Disbursement Officer (I sw)
January 1997        Supervision Mission - Field Review      Urban Environm'l Specialist (3 sw)
Municipal Mgmt Practitioner (2 sw)
Operations Officer(4 sw)
Resettlement Specialist (2 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
April 1997         Supervision Mission-Field Review       Urban Environrm'l Specialist (3 sw)
Operations Officer (4 sw)
Resettlement Specialist (2 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
October 1997        Supervision Mission - Annual Review     Urban Environm'l Specialist (3 sw)
Municipal Mgmt Practitioner (2 sw)
Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
April 1998         Supervision Mission-Field Review       Operations Officer (3 sw)
Resettlement Specialist (2 sw)
Environmental Specialist (2 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
October 1998        Supervision Mission - Annual Review     Urban Environm'l Specialist (2 sw)
Municipal Mgmt Practitioner (1 sw)
Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (2 sw)
April 1999         Supervision Mission-Field Review       Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
October 1999        Supervision Mission - Annual Review     Urban Environm'l Specialist (2 sw)
Municipal Mgint Practitioner (I sw)
Operations Officer(4 sw)
Financial Analyst (2 sw)
April 2000         Supervision Mission-Field Review       Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
October 2000        Supervision Mission - Annual Review     Urban Environm'l Specialist (2 sw)
Municipal Mgmt Practitioner (I sw)
Operations Officer(4 sw)
Financial Analyst (2 sw)
April 2001         Supervision Mission                    Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
October 2001        Supervision Mission                     Operations Officer (3 sw)
Financial Analyst (3 sw)
Urban Economist (3 sw)
Total number of staff weeks by Bank FY for supervision is as follows: 29 (FY97), 25 (FY98), 14 (FY99), 15 (FYOO), 17 (FYOI), 9 (FY02)



86
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 7
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
1. Overall Context
1.    A regional environmental assessment was completed by consultants to the Ministry of Public Work's
Directorate General of Human Settlements, in close cooperation and consultation with local agencies and
residents from March to June 1995. The infrastructure investments in IUIDP are designed to improve overall
municipal management and minimize damages to the local environment. Efforts are needed to ensure that
secondary environmental and social impacts are not caused by these investments.  However, residual
environmental problems may have more to do with contextual problems, rather than being a direct consequence
of the investments themselves. It is, therefore, of greater value to analyze the environmental context as well as
the impacts of the infrastructure investments in order to ensure that mitigation measures address the problems as
a whole and not just those parts that are the consequence of the relatively small infrastructure investments.
2.    The regional environmental assessment identified the main environmental problems in the Sulawesi
Towns as:
(a) health risks arising from contamination of domestic water sources, and especially domestic wells;
(b) poor domestic sanitation contributing to chronic water pollution of local and other water bodies;
(c) flooding, resulting in part from inadequate drainage, but exacerbated everywhere by drain
blockage due to inadequate maintenance and solid waste;
(d) poorly managed solid waste resulting in random dumping and accumulation along roadsides in and
around the towns;
(e) poorly located and managed official solid waste disposal sites that are often little or no
improvement over random dumping; and
(f)  poorly managed markets which are unsanitary due to blocked drains accumulated solid waste, and
inadequate or lacking water supply and/or sanitation facilities.
3.    In addition to these generic problems, the various towns may be grouped according to their geographical
features. Towns in more mountainous settings where soils are subject to erosion are more liable to experience
flash flooding problems and much attention to drainage is required. Towns in flat, irrigated areas are also liable
to flooding where inadequate attention is paid to filling ex-sawa (rice paddy) land. In coastal towns, houses
built on stilts over tidal flats present difficult sanitary problems.
11. Analysis of Environmental Problems
4.     Significant environmental issues identified in the environmental assessment include water resources,
sanitation, flooding and drainage, solid waste management, construction impacts, traffic and accessibility
impacts, industrial impacts, markets, parks and gardens, urban fringe problems, and regional resource
management. The most important are outlined below.
5.    Water Resources and Sanitation. The most serious problem related to water resources is contamination
from human and solid waste. Most citizens have private toilets, but practically all toilets are connected to
unlined pits. The main consequence is that ground water becomes increasingly polluted and wells are severely



87
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 7
contaminated. An associated concern is that open stormn water drains also contain human waste deposited
directly or via seepage from poorly constructed toilet pits and poorly functioning septic tank outlets.
6.    Flooding, and Drainaige.  Although large scale flooding is relatively rare, many neighborhoods
experience very regular flooding for short periods. The reasons include soil erosion; inadequate drainage
systems; drain blockages; poor maintenance; the inherent difficulty of draining areas of ex-sawa (rice paddy);
and housing in coastal towns being built on stilts over cleared mangroves.
7.     Solid Waste Manapement. The problems include: the TPAs are difficult to service, hand carts are
often not being used, only a small portion of waste disposed of by the public is collected; coordination between
market management and solid waste authorities is poor; and formal disposal sites are usually just open dumps.
Waste minimization and recycling are not part of the standard waste management model.
8.    Construction Impacts. Construction inevitably disrupts daily life; however with poor management,
these problems are exacerbated with: (a) poor planning and the works being completed more slowly than
necessary; (b) untidy construction sites leading to additional dust, drain blockages and increased noise; and (c)
inadequate attention to safety.
9.     Markets. Two sets of persistent problems occur in markets. First, the needs of fresh food vendors are
not adequately considered, resulting in conditions that not only affect the environment, but also pose a health
risk to customers. Second, markets are generally poorly managed. Poor relations between market management
and local goverments lead to inadequate service provision.
10.   Parks and Gardens. In most towns some attention has been given to planting in pubic places and
especially to lining streets with trees or planters. However, maintenance of public planting is generally sporadic
and in many places unmaintained planters become depositories for rubbish. Vacant sites are common and
remain unmaintained and attract solid waste dumping, giving them a general feel of dereliction.
11.    Urban Fringe Problems and Regional Resource Management. The impact of urban development on the
surrounding countryside and more broadly the resource implications of emerging development pattems are
issues relevant to good urban management and to long-term environmental health and sustainability. The
following points should be kept in mind. First, erosion causes siltation of rivers and drains, encouraging
flooding. Second, all towns should have one property sited and operated solid waste disposal site. Third,
upstream water extraction is based on convenience, without reference to the impact downstream. Fourth, urban
expansion will reduce the efficiency of the irrigation systems. Fifth, many of the towns are expanding into
natural forest areas of considerable value. Some serve as watershed protection areas upstream of springs used
to for the town water supply system. Sixth and finally, the towns in the program are developing in a haphazard
way, leading to extremely inefficient infrastructure provision.
III. Mitigation, Management and Monitoring
12.   The environmental analysis of each PJM  identifies residual environmental problems that could be
expected to persist following the PJM infrastructure investment unless appropriate measures are taken. In the
environmental management framework, such measures fall into the two categories of mitigation and monitoring
for which appropriate recommendations have to be made under the headings, respectively of UKL and UPL. In
the process of completing the PJM environmental sections, a number of issues have repeatedly arisen where it
has become clear that a common approach, in most cases supported by the Tk I agencies, or from the national
government, would be appropriate.



88
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 7
13.   Water Resources. Many towns would benefit from a survey of local water resources to ascertain the
most cost-effective and appropriate sequence in which to tap the resources for the supply system. Such surveys
could also indicate a measure to protect the water source. These surveys should also provide a basis for
allocating the resources where there is potentially escalating competition between users. Some towns in this
program are located in areas subject to intense irrigation, and competition for water between irrigation and
urban supply needs is serious. The risks of contamination of domestic water supplies are well recognized and
additional measures will need to be taken such as: (a) sampling by the PDAMs and bacteriological testing by
the health department, but programs to deal with problems once encountered are in many cases still weak; (b)
ambient water sources (rivers, canals, lakes) should also be sampled from time to time where these are used for
bathing, washing and occasionally drinking; and (c) care in placing pipe-work needs to be taken.
14.    Sanitation.  Financing is to be made available and encouragement given to individual households
without toilets to install them. The program will promote the installation of properly constructed septic tanks.
In poorer and more congested areas, a program for constructing communal septic tanks is proposed. The
program will also finance the purchase of a vacuum truck and the construction of a sludge treatment facility,
generally located together with the solid waste disposal site.
15.   A Real Demand Survey indicated that there is a lack of awareness of the potentially serious health
problems associated with makeshift sanitary arrangements which currently prevail in all the towns. The
fragmented programs and activities of the various agencies responsible for improving sanitary conditions need to
be forged into a single integrated program with the following elements: (a) coordinating public education and
training programs; (b) monitoring, encouraging and if necessary enforcing good practice; (c) monitoring
domestic and ambient water; (d) using monitoring results to properly sequence improvements to water supply
and sanitation; and (e) formulating proposals for further improvements in sanitation.
16.   Drainage and Flood Control. Flooding and in general poor drainage are common problems in the towns
in this program. None of the towns have a complete drainage system and few even have a proper main drainage
and flood control plan. Such a plan is a first priority. Lack of maintenance of drains has also been highlighted
as a problem in the PJMs and funding must be made available for maintenance. The following points are
stressed:
(a) Poor design and construction of local drainage systems are problems that must be overcome by the
public works department taking a greater interest and control over the specification and
construction of local drains;
(b) Keeping drains clear requires preventive as well as remedial action. Preventive measures must
include erosion control and other anti-siltation measures, avoiding laying pipes and cables through
drains and eliminating the dumping of solid waste in drains;
(c) The clearing of local drains needs to be turned into a formally organized regular activity; and
(d) Difficulties in many towns that are expanding over mangrove swamps where houses on stilts are
built on mud flat sites which were in the past flushed out by the tides, and are particularly difficult
to provide with infrastructure. This problem must first be studied and a coherent set of measures
proposed.
17.    Solid Waste Management. The local governments' solid waste management systems currently serve
only a small portion of the population. In many towns the quality of service is poor and the PJMs therefore call
for appropriate institutional strengthening. Many PJMs recommend the establishment of composting facilities
run by the local governments. In the past, a model for solid waste was promoted in which systems managed by



89
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 7
the local government were to be complemented by individual action and community involvement. The
community has a vital role to play in any effective solid waste management system and this component therefore
needs to be developed as follows:
(a) Participating communities need to be empowered through motivation and organization. There
must also be an effective incentive and cost-recovery system;
(b) Until now the emphasis has been entirely on waste removal and disposal, a major shift is necessary
towards waste reduction and reuse/recycling. The following activities should be developed: (i)
households should be encouraged to separate organic waste from dry waste; (ii) where they have
gardens, households should compost the organic part and use it for soil conditioning; (iii) local
governments should help in the establishment of neighborhood materials collection systems;
(c) Local governments need to attend closely to community systems, assisting, and where necessary,
applying sanctions where residents fail in their responsibilities; and
(d) In addition to their traditional waste management tasks, local governments should support waste
reuse and recycling systems as noted above.
18.    Solid Waste Disposal. There is a general need to improve both the choice of sites for final disposal of
solid waste and the preparation and management of these sites. A number of crucial technical inputs must be
included:  (a) distance from  other human activities; (b) ability to accommodate sufficient waste, (c)
geomorphology; (d) hydrological and geological conditions; (e) local ecology; and (f) cost of land and cost of
operations. Simple measures to make substantial improvements include: (a) where feasible, the choice of sites
which have inherent management advantages; (b) pre-engineering of the sites; (c) simple leachate collection
systems; (d) general control and management of the site and organizing waste picking activities. Consultants
should be used to prepare the necessary drawings and supervise construction. However it is also important for
local government waste managers to have a reasonable knowledge concerning the choice, preparation and good
management practice of disposal sites. A well illustrated manual on the topic which must also include case
studies covering different kinds of sites will be prepared and widely distributed.
19.    Manainng Construction Impacts. These impacts need not be serious or last long, but a number of
measures can be taken to ensure that they are minimized: (a) construction contractors should cooperate closely
with police to agree on what work should be carried out and when, and how the traffic will be managed ii so far
as road works are involved; (b) contractors should coordinate closely with other infrastructure agencies; (c)
contractors should maintain work force discipline such that no nuisance is created; (d) measures should be taken
to minimize any dust or mud and noise; (e) basic safety measures should be taken, including the training of the
workforce; (f) work should be started only when all materials and resources are at hand, and minimal materials
should be stored on site. These measures are generally already written into contracts for work on urban
infrastructure. The onus is on the supervising contracting authorities to ensure that good site management is
practiced.
20.    Managing Transport Impacts and Improving Accessibility. The towns in this program are not yet
suffering from significant problems relating to traffic, and the few instances of congestion mainly around bus
terminals can be eliminated with relatively simple traffic management measures.
21.    Market Improvements. Strong measures have to be taken to improve the management of markets. The
following steps should be taken: (a) a new regime for market infrastructure development and management in
wide consultation with market vendors, customers and managers should be developed; (b) a manual for market



90
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 7
design and construction should be produced; and (c) a training program should be developed and instituted for
local government staff.
22.    Parks and Gardens. Most local governments do spend money on parks and gardens and some towns
have requested the inclusion of browsers for watering trees and street greenery in the framework of the solid
waste management section of their PJM. Recommendations for improvement include tapping the resources of
the communities and supporting parks department both to institute planting programs and to ensure that planting
is well maintained.
23.   Improved Management of Subregional Resources and Sustainable Development. In the hinterland of
towns, which are suffering the threat of landslides, an active program of erosion control should be undertaken.
This program would consider: (a) good soil management practices by farmers and estate managers; (b) planting
for soil stabilization in areas subject to erosion; (c) infrastructure and housing development on slopes of easily
eroded soils should be designed and built with the problem in mind; (d) quarrying, mining or other extraction
should minimize erosion impacts; (e) illegal developments on unstable slopes or those which encourage erosion
should be removed.
24.   In addition to these elements, the effective confinement of solid waste to one well prepared and managed
TPA site is important. The need for a more coherent and coordinated inventory and strategy for allocating and
using subregional water resources is apparent. The protection of forest and nature reserves for the protection of
water sources is noted. The haphazard and increasingly dispersed development of the towns in the program is
arguably the most serious regional resource problem facing the urban subregions. The root cause is overpriced
suburban land with poor planning machinery to "unlock"and reorganize land uses in these areas, coupled with
cheap transport to more distant and cheaper land. More serious attention needs to be given to this in the
planning and development of the towns in the program. This issue should become a major focus for strategic
planning for the kabupatens.
IV. Institutional Strengthening
A. Procedural Issues
25.   An attempt has been made to integrate environmental and social concems into the investment programs.
The approach was to look not only at the environmental and social process more generally to see what problems
need to be addressed. But there will remain residual problems and unless the investments are managed within a
more coherent environmental and social management framework, they are liable to be suboptimal in their
effectiveness.
26.   If public consultation is undertaken on a program-wide basis, this incorporation of users into the
decision-making process can be expected to begin to overcome the fragmentation of programs. An effective
consultation process should be a cooperative enterprise among agencies, resulting in better integration of
government programs. These main principles are:
(a) more consideration needs to be given to communicating with the public in identifying priorities for
infrastructure investments;
(b) the aim should be to work toward consensus in the investments and a cooperative approach to their
management;



91
ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 7
(c) public information and training, and where appropriate, community self-management of programs,
should be pursued; and
(d) local government agencies should cooperate in organizing public consultation exercises.
B. Institutional Recommendations
27.    Conceming environmental and social monitoring and management as a whole, a number of
recommendations are made. The law creating the national environmental protection agency (BAPEDAL)
referred to the creation of provincial agencies. A new law should see that these provincial level agencies are
established, first in the offices of the provincial governors, then in the kabupatens, starting in the spring or
summer of 1996. Regional offices (BAPEDAL-Wilaya) are in the process of being established, with Sulawesi
covered by the East Indonesia office in Ujung Pandang. This structure of environmental management should
ensure that the environmental programs are implemented, but it is likely that BAPPEDA Tk II will have to fill
this gap in the interim.
28.    Specific institutional recommendations for solid waste management specify that where no formal waste
management agency exists, one should be established and it should be provided with adequate resources. New
arrangements to introduce a formal program for waste reduction and recycling of materials should be
implemented. Local govemments, together with community organizations such as the women's organization
PKK, should initiate composting arrangements. BAPPEDA Tk II needs to become involved.
29.    Drainage. The provision of adequate drainage and the clearing of blocked drains need to be addressed
urgently. Although more funding for O&M might be appropriate, encouragement and censure need to be
instituted to ensure that the work is carried out. The induction of local institutions (Kelurahan, LKD and RW)
where appropriate would be desirable.
30.    Market Planning and Management. The institutional structure in place seems inadequate where the
condition of markets is almost universally unsanitary and poorly managed. There is an urgent need for greater
consultation conceming the location and planning of market arrangements. This situation implies the need to
establish standing committees on market planning and management.
C. Initiatives in Education and Training
31.   The Ministry of Health has pioneered public education and training and has a lot of experience at all
government levels from the big cities through small towns into the rural areas. The initiative which is
recommended here is to apply a much more integrated approach to education, training and consultation. There
are four main areas in which such training exercises are recommended.
32.    Sanitation. This is seen as an umbrella concept under which all four areas are gathered. This is in part
because the main environmental problems in the towns all relate to sanitation, be it from unsatisfactory human
waste management, flooding, poor solid waste management, or the condition of the markets. The sanitation
campaigns already undervay form  a good foundation on which to build a more substantial training and
consultative process. These training sessions should include workshops for the staff of all the departments and
community representatives concemed, and as well as for community groups.
33.    Drainage. The focus of training around the problem of poor drainage must be predominantly concemed
with mechanisms for ensuring that drains are kept clear.



92
ANNEX 16
Page 7 of 7
34.    Solid Waste Management. Training workshops need to bc held in which the responsible local officials
and community representatives receive instruction and agree on roles to achieve an effective collection service.
Manuals and training materials for this need to be produced and motivation raised. The courses for local waste
disposal staff should be implemented in the context of this program.
35.    Markets. Two aspects of market organization require urgent attention. On the one hand, the planning
and reconstruction of markets under way in many of the towns requires more consideration of the needs of all
market users. On the other hand, the day-to-day running of the wet markets to achieve and sustain the
maintenance of sanitary conditions requires serious attention. A group of training modules for the staff of Dinas
Pasar also needs to be attended by staff of other departments. These modules should cover all aspects of the
management, keeping drains clean and managing solid waste. It is also suggested that the continued good
management of the market, which concems both economic and sanitation issues, would best be guaranteed by
the establishment of a Market Forum that would bring together representatives of the responsible agencies.



93
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND CAPABILITYt
Locally    Generated    Revenue2       Projected Revenue      Proposed                      Coverage   Ratio
(Rp million)                     Growth %         Subsidiary Loan         Debt                (DCR)
(Rp million)
Local Government      89/90       93/94       Compound %                              SLA            1999/00      2000/01      2001/02
Annual A
89/90-93/94
North Sulawesi
Bitung                       1,959.7        +37.0             +20.0               596            3.8:1        6.2:1       10.4:1
556.2
Minahasa         3,389.7      4,662.4         +8.3             +14.6               211            2.1:1         4.9:1       6.9:1
B. Mongondow        1,455.6     2,702.7         +16.7            +17.7               621             2.0:1        3.3:1        5.6:1
SangiheTalaud       1,303.8     2,101.7         +12.7             +12.7             2,131            3.7:1        3.2:1        6.9:1
Gorontalo         1,445.7     4,144.5         +30.1            +16.3               202             1.7:1        4.5:1       10.9:1
Central Suluwesi
Banggai          2,244.8     3,197.2         +9.2             +10.6               415             2.3:1        4.7:1       6.1:1
Donggala         3,012.3      5,867.5        +18.1             +12.7               414            5.0:1         2.0:1       12.3:1
BuolTolitoli       1,667.9     2,837.4         +14.2             +14.4              1176            1.7:1        2.3:1       11.1:1
South Sulawesi
Gowa            1,235.7     3,772.9         +32.2             +17.7              1562            5.2:1        6.9:1       144.0:1
Pinrang          2,562.3     4,681.4        +16.3              14.7              2870            3.1:1         1.2:1       18.3:1
Wajo            2,679.0     4,649.7        +14.8             +17.8              3841             1.2:1        1.9:1       29.8:1
TanaToraja         1,069.9     2,755.0         +26.7            +20.4               2672            2.6:1        5.4:1       10.1:1
Majene                       1,547.6        +35.4             +18.1              4467            2.3:1         2.6:1       42.2:1
459.9
Sidenreng Rappang     2,706.9     4,990.1        +16.5             +15.3               652             2.2:1        2.4:1       92.2:1
SE Sulawesi
Buton           1,010.1     2,470.5         +25.1             +17.2              2140            3.0:1        2.1:1       30:5:1
Kolaka                      3,422.0         +36.9             +18.5              2306            7.2:1         3.4:1      14:7:1
974.0
Muna            1,282.1     2,499.9         +18.2            +15.2              2068             2.0:1        2.7:1       9:5:1
Average of all                                 +19.0
"~   Complete financial data is only available for 17 Local Governments; data for the other 22 Local Goverments
will be complete prior to project launch.
2/     PAD+Bi-HPBHBP



94
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED SUB LOANS
PJM TOTAL    WATER    MUNICIPAL   Sub Lon    Sub Lo.n   PJM TOTAL   WATER   MUNICIPAL
Rpa Million                        WATER    MUNICIPAL           RPS PER CAPITA
POPULATION
SULAWESI UTARA                                              738,818       97,958     18,786     79,172      4,692      4,919    132,687     26,427  107,160
BITUNG                 BITUNG                    78,853 0     25,600.3    4.092 3   21.508.0    1,089.0     595.8   324,659      51,898  272,761
^ MINAHASA                TONDANO                   55,925.0     14,329.1    2.474 7   11,854.4    1,308.5     2113    256.220      44,250  211,970
MANADOKOTAMADYA   MANADO                        358,9000      24.9127     4.5895   20.323.2      539.6    2,721.9    69,414       12.788   56,626
* BOLAANG MONGONDOW  KOTAMOBAGU                     78,168.0      8,651.6    2,459.0    6,192.6    1,008.7     620.5    110,680     31,458   79,222
* SANGIHETALUD            TAHUNA                    22,4070       5,681.7    2,244.9    3,436.8     745.7      5673    253,568    100,187  153,381
GORONTALO(KODYA)   GORONTALO                    120,810 0      8,347.4    1,157.1    7,190.3           |    201.7    69,095       9.578   59,517
* GORONTALO(KAB)          LIMBOTO                   23,7550      10.4352     1,7684     8,666.8                         439.284     74.443  364,841
SULAWESI TENGAH                                            345,957.0     69,600.3   12,446.7   57,184.6    4,426.2    6,100.2   201,182      36,976  1685,207
PALU KOTAMADYA         PALU                     187.000 0     18,553.6-'                                   2.594 6    99,217        -      99,217
* DONGGALA                DONGGALA                  17.545 0     6.109 3      627 5    5,481.8      552.9      414 2    348,207     35,765  312,442
* BUALTOLITOLI            TOLITOLI                  63,5770      14,7637     4,626.8   10,136.9    1,265.8    1,176.0   232,218     72.775  159,443
* BANGGAI                 LUWUJK                    40.1350      15,1202     3271.9   11,848.3      809.8      414.5   376,734      81.522  295.211
POSO                   POSO                      37,7000      15,0535     3,919.5   11,134.0    1,797.7    1,500.9   399,297    103,966  295.332
SULAWESI SELATAN                                          2,220,244.0    370,341.8   74,313.7  296,028.1   16,326.9   30,204.2    166,802    33,471  133,331
UJUNG PANDANG          UJUNG PANDANG          1,218,460.0     77.553 6              77,553.6   _   _        500.6    63,649         -      63.649
* GOWA                    SUNGGUMINASA              48,691.0     30,7852     8,418.2   22,367.0    1,232.4    1,562.0   632,256    172,890  459,366
MAROS                  MAROS                     48500.0      17.0906     7,797.9    9,2927      9607       266.2   352,384    160,781   191,602
SINJAI                 SINJAI                    27,700.0      9,188.6    2,096.1    7.0925      884.7      702.1    331,718     75,671  256,047
PANGKEP                PANGKAJENE                26,500.0     12.6430    4,102.7    8,5403       618.2    1,282.8   477,094    154,819  322,275
BARRU                  BARRU                     22,700.0      9.4182     1,830.1    7.5881     1,093.1    1,124.8    414,899    80,621   334,278
SOPPENG                WATANSOPPENG              27,148.0      5.908 0  W    _       5,908 0                693.5   217,622         -    217,622
* MAJENE                  MAJENE                   46,007.0      9,762 9    2,205.0    7,557.9      641.9    4,467.2    212,205     47.927  164,277
* PINRANG                 PINRANG                  64,127.0      18,069.6    2.614.4   15,455.2    1,044.9    2,870.4    281,778    40.769  241,009
PARE PARE              PARE PARE                113,100.0     25,949 0    7,859.8   18,0892   w__           8318    229,434      69,494   159,940
* WAJO                    SENGKANG                 33,672.0      17,2634    3303.5   13.9599        981.8    3,840.6   512,693      98,108  414,585
ENKERANG               ENKERANG                  14,000.0     10.784 8     838.1    9,946 7      389.4    1,418.2   770,343      59,864  710,479
BONE                   WATAMPONE                 91,500.0     11.7012     2,893.7    8,807.5    1,047.6        ,     127,882     31.625   96,257
BULUBUKUMBA            BULUBUKUMBA               35,300.0     14,8751     4,359.5   10,5156      663.8    1,203.5   421.391    123,499  297,892
JENEPONTO              BONTOSUNGGU               34,000.0      9.4104     2,574.2    6,836.2    1,379.7    1,171 1    276,776    75,712  201,065
BANTAENG               BANTAENG                 146,330.0      6,220.5    1,023.2    5.197 3     581.8    1,789.2    42,510       6,992   35,518
POLMAS                 POLEWALI                  27,300.0     10 529 3    2,796 0    7.733 3     499.1      328.3   385.689    102,418  283,271
TANA TORAJA                          TOTAL       31,063.0     18,103.7    3,787.6   14,316.1    1,120.9    2,672.0    682,806    121,933  460,873
* TANATORAJA              MAKALE                    16,561.0      9210.0    1,4364      7.7736      435.1    1,698.8   556,126      86,734  469,392
* TANA TORAJA             RANTEPAO                  14,502.0      8,893.7    2,351 2    6.542 5     685.8      973 2    613,274    162,129  451,145
MAMUJU                 MAMUJU                    17,600.0     17.090 6    7,797 9    9 292 7     960.7      266.2   971.057    443,063  527,994
* SIDRAP                  PANGKAJENE                26,446 0     11,382.3    1,743 1    9 639.2     693 8      652 1    430.398     65,912  364,486
TAKALAR                TAKALAR                   36,600 0     10.065.0    1,801 2    8 263.8     586.6    1,246 5    275,000     49,213  225,787
*-LUVWU                PALOPO                    68,900 0     12,072.4    3,043 5    9028.9      945.8    1,186 7    175.216     44,173   131,044
SELAYAR                BENTENG                   14,600 0      4 474 4    1,428 0    3 046 4                128 4    306,466     97,808  208,658
SULAWESI TENGGARA                                            282,626.0    101,759.6   19,347.5   82,412.1    3,838.2    9,615.9   360,062     68,456  291,696
KENDARI - KODYA        KENDARI                  149,0000      36,087.2    6,587.9   29,499.3    1,672.3    2,320.4   242,196     44,214  197,982
* BUTON                   BAU BAU                   50,5850      162950      5,5109    10.7841      558.3    2,1404    322,131    108,943  213,188
* KOLAKA                  KOLAKA                    31,224 0     17 082.1    2,144 5   14 937 6     593 7    2,385 9    547,082     68,681  478,401
MUNA                   RAHA                      34,590 0     14 319 0     917 1   13 401.9      403 0    2.068 2    413,964     26,513  387,450
KENDARI - KABUPA TEN   UNAAHA                    17,226 0     17 976.3    4,187 1   13 789.2     610 9      701 0   1,043,556    243,069  800,488
Based on survey data between 1990 and 1994        3,887,644.0    639,669.7  124,892.8  514,766.9   29,282.8   80,838.8    178,295    34,812  143,483
Towns In Original Preparation Effort         _
Towns induded in SIJUDP
Provincial Capitals In Italics
Kolamadya Identified



95
ANNEX 18
Page I of 3
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC/FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SUBPROJECTS
1.    General Methodology
The evaluation criteria are based mainly on the net benefit stream for the economic analysis and on the
corresponding net revenues for the financial analysis. Internal rates of return (IRR) and Net Present Value
(NPV) have been included as additional indicators. Sensitivity testing has been undertaken, limited, however, to
10 percent increases to costs and revenues respectively, but calculated on separate runs. IRR's have been
calculated without interest, depreciation and inflation, but including replacement costs, where applicable, and
salvage values.
Salvage values were generally estimated at 20 percent, representing a generally acceptable rate for the
mix of short life components (e.g. vehicles) and long life components such as permanent structures.
Depreciation, where applicable, will be calculated on a simple straight-line formula.
Economic analysis has been carried out at constant 1996 prices. In order to convert financial into
economic costs, applying to Drainage sub-programs only, a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been
used. Lacking specific information, it is assumed that the SCF chosen will eliminate any economic distortions
of market prices which may prevail at present (taxes, subsidies). Consequently, it is believed that economic
prices will thus best reflect the real value to society of costs and benefits which will result from the proposed
sub-projects.
Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs, resulting from the implementation of the individual sub-
programs, have not been taken from the PJM where they are shown in absolute terms. They have instead been
based on standard percentage rates according to general experiences in the different sectors. Besides, uniform
O&M rates offer the advantage of allowing a more reliable comparison of the outcome of sub-programs of
individual cities. The applied rates are as follows:
*  Water supply:     15.0 percent     (an optimistic assumption as performance of Sulawesi PDAMs
indicate a range of 12% to 25%)
*  Solid wvaste      15.0 percent
*  Bus terminals      2.0 percent
*  all sectors        2.5 percent
Since the determination of revenues (for financial analysis) and benefits (for economic analysis) vary
considerably according to the character of the sub-sector concerned, corresponding methods applied have been
described individually for specific sub-programs.
Summary Tables showing the evaluation results have been prepared, and the Evaluation Tables for each
town and per sector have been attached in the Annexes to the Report on Economic and Financial Analysis of
Subprojects which is in the Project File.



96
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
2.     Water Supply
Basic Considerations
Extensions to the existing water production capacity and extension of the water distribution system in
operation, form a major component of the proposed development program in almost all towns evaluated.
A key problem of the planned investment programs is that the proposals usually involve a mixture of
changes and improvements to the current services. Extensions to the network together with an enlarged
production capacity are regularly combined with rehabilitation of weak or non-operational components of the
existing system, including all water-loss reduction schemes and reconnection of shut-off connections, where
applicable.
The number of persons per connection in Year One is assumed to be seven, allowing for some shared
consumption by neighbors. The figure is gradually reduced in future years to allow for expected reductions in
average household size. It is assumed that the average per capita consumption (ranging from 100-120 VcJd) will
remain constant over the planning period since any tendency for consumption to rise with general increase in
incomes is balanced by the well-known fact that new PDAM customers will have significantly lower incomes
than existing customers. Consumption from non-domestic connections and public hydrants is taken as 1,000
liters/day.
Water losses will correspond to losses currently experienced by individual PDAM.  However, a
standard rate of 30% has been targeted as future value to be retained in the analysis. Exception will be made
where actual water losses are already below 30%. For those towns Bulukumba (24.8%), Palopo (27.8%), and
Sinjai (21.3%) a minimum improvement has still been assumed.
For the financial analysis of those programs exceeding investments of Rp 4,000 million, the FINPRO
model has been used for a detailed analysis which will be found on the Project File.
Results
Only some ten programs out of about 35 water supply investment programs examined are economically
justified if the sole criteria of an intemal rate of return (FIRR) of 12% is used. In view of the above results, it
was agreed that in addition, technically sound programs based on a least-cost-solution, actual demand and
increased service levels required by the beneficiaries, should also be eligible for inclusion.
Management, especially financial, and operations appear to be the critical elements for viable water
enterprises operations as can be seen from the table below:
Indicator         Unit        Lowest Value         Highest Value       Average
Population served    % town    12.5  Bantaeng           73.0  Manado          45.5
Water losses         % town    15.2  Watansoppeng        52.9  Benteng        35.9
Collecting efficiency  % town    54.0  Pangkep           88.0  Sinjai         73.6
Revenues/connection   000 Rp   571.2  Enrekang        2,400.0  Maros        1,381.5



97
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
At least the first three of above indicators point in the direction of unsatisfactory relations with
customers, otherwise a key element for successful cost recovery policies, and rather poor management capacities
of some of the PDAM staff. Additionally, institutional weaknesses have been noted in form of overstaffing. A
ratio of twenty employees or more per 1,000 connections, which does not seem to be the exception in many
PDAM in Sulawesi, will negatively impact the financial success of any PDAM. Well organized enterprises
guarantee efficient services with a ratio of ten or less employees per 1,000 connections.
Taking the above considerations into account, the approach to examine the new investment programs
for water supply on their own, has been revised and the investment has been tested as to its impact if combined
with the existing situation prevailing in each PDAM. This may be the more logical approach since significant
portions of the new investment programs are to be used for rehabilitation purposes and service improvements
with little impact on extra recurrent costs, but greater impacts on revenue generation (e.g. re-connection of shut-
off connections). As a direct result, ten additional programs (Barru, Bulukumba, Enrekang, Maros. Palopo,
Pangkep, Sinjai, Watampone, Poso and Kendari) became acceptable in financial/economic terms. Emphasis
will be put on management, institutional and operations improvements.
All analyses have been based on the tariffs and billing rates currently applied by the corresponding
PDAMs. Thus a great variety of charge rates for water have been used, ranging from 72 Rp/m3 (Sinjai) to 691
Rp/m3 (Maros), with the average being 309 Rp/m3 (which has been used where corresponding information was
lacking). Furthermore, the charge rates have been increased by generally 20-50% (up to 100% in some cases)
in two equal steps in Year Two and Year Four of project implementation where this was required to reach the
desired outcome. Lower increases have been accepted where the outcome was more promising.
3.     Drainage
The overwhelming majority of drainage subprojects are very small, i.e. cost less than Rp 500 million
(about $0.2 million). Case by case economic analysis (i.e. calculation of EIRR and NPV) is required only for
the larger ones which typically cost Rp 600 million to Rp 3 billion. The benefits of these drainage subprojects
are estimated on the basis of land value increases due to reduced flooding. The advantage of this approach is
obvious: land value increase, if land markets function properly, is an indicator which can reflect the present
value of the future benefit stream accruing to the owners of the land in the project area. The projected increases
in land values are based on comparison of land values in the project area to land values in similar, but less
frequently flooded neighborhoods.  Information on land values for the subprojects was collected during
interviews with kelurahan (sub-district) staff handling land transactions and with informal real estate brokers.



98
ANNEX 19
Page I of 3
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR SUBPROJECT
SELECTION, PLANNING AND DESIGN
(adapted to suit local conditions according to MPW guidelines) I
1) Kabupaten/Kotamadya Selection Criteria for IUIDP
All Kotamadya and all capitals of Kabupaten
2) Sector Selection Criteria (Detailed in Agreed Project Technical Memoranda)
Water Supply                        Real demand, water stress area
Drainage                            Flooding, deferred maintenance, increased runoff,
inadequate capacity
Solid Waste                         National guidelines regarding coverage for high densities,
environmental and health considerations
Roads                               Missing network links, congestion, traffic flow constraints,
road condition, accidents, existing residential development
areas without adequate access, new land developments
KIP                             :  National policy for basic services, local government initiatives
for basic services, local government initiatives, poor
environmental conditions, community willingness to operate
and maintain infrastructure
MIIP                                Service deficiencies, local government initiatives,
environmental and health considerations
3) Subproject Design Criteria
Water Supplv
Planning:
-  Priority for rehabilitation and optimum use of existing systems
-  Priority for reduction of water losses and leakages
-  Ability and willingness to pay for water supply
-  Adequate income for piped water supply (taken as Rp 100,000/month)
-  Per capita demand 100 to 120 lpd for urban households in small and medium towns
-  Per capita demand up to 180 lpd taken for special areas and large/metro cities
-  Planning period of 10 years
-  Optimum system selected on basis of minimum present value of total
costs over project life taking a discount rate of 10 percent
-  Environmental impact assessment, as appropriate.
Engineering Design:
-  Water quality                    -  Indonesia and WHO permissible standards
-  Maximum pressure                 -  7.5 bar in the distribution system
All standards and criteria follow MPW guidelines which have been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank and
summarized by agreed Technical Memoranda by Sub-sector. Details are provided in the Project File.



99
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
-  Minimum pressure                -  1.0 bar in the distribution system over
a 24 hour period
-  Peak day demands                -  1.15 x average day demand
-  Peak hour demands               -  2.00 x peak day demand
Drainage
Planning:
City drainage planning focuses initially on primary and secondary drainage, and local flooding. Major
flood control works is the responsibility of central or provincial authorities. Urban drainage coverage
target is 60 percent in Repelita V, with 100 percent coverage by primary and secondary systems.
Optimization of existing drainage systems. Major drainage works to be undertaken on the basis
drainage masterplans.
Design:
-  Q = F x C x I x A, where Q = discharge, C = coefficient of roughness, I = rainfall
intensity and A = catchment area
-  Return period of design storm                 -  5 years
-  Minimum velocity of flow in channels          -  0.5 meters/second minimum
-  Hydraulic design                              -  Manning's Formula
Solid Waste Services
Planning:
Based on environmental and health considerations, real demand and willingness to pay. High priority
for communities with densities over 200 person/hectare.
Design standard:
Population density greater than 200 persons/ha, 100 percent service: population density between 100
person/ha and 200 person/ha, 75 percent service; no service yet for density less than 50 person/ha; and
100 percent service for commercial areas and markets.
Refuse generation: 3.15 liters/capita/day for medium towns; 1.85 liters/capita/day for small towns
Disposal by controlled and sanitary landfill:  environmental impact assessments required for site
selection, development and operation.
Design:
Modular system as per DG Cipta Karya guidelines
Sanitation
Planning:
Eighty percent coverage of urban population by 1999 (Repelita VI)
-  All areas to have on-site system, either individual or using community septic tanks.



100
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
Criteria:
1. Areas with ground water table less than 1.5 meters
a) Population density greater than 150 persons/ha - 100 percent service level, using type Al (MK-
5 KK + septic tank and anaerobic filter) or type B I (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic filters)
b) Population density less than 150 persons/ha - 80 percent service, type Al or B 1 facility.
2. Areas with ground water table between 1.5 m and 5 m
a) Population density greater than 200 persons/ha - 100 percent service level, type A (MK-5 KK +
septic tank and anaerobic filter) or type B I (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic filter)
b) Population density 150 - 200 person/ha - 80 percent service level type B (WC/JK + septic tank
and soakaway trench)
c) Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service level using type B facility
3. Areas with ground water table greater than 5 meters
a) Population density greater than 200 person/ha - 100 percent service level using
type A and type B2 facility
b) Population density 150-200 person/ha - 80 percent service level using type B facility
c) Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service level using type C
facility (soak pit with leaching pit)
4. Water consumption for pour flush latrines taken as 5 lpd. Sludge generation in pour
flush latrines is 30 lpd.
All according to DG Cipta Karya Guidelines



101
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     Regional Environmental Assessment (for original 18 towns), May 1995.
2.     SULUDP-2: Preparation for Implementation. Regional Environmental Assessment for 23 towns,
March 1996.
3.     Real Demand Surveys: SULAWESI II, Comparison of Results, February 1995.
4.     Real Demand Surveys: Rantepao, Bitung, Sengkang, Makale, Pangkajene, Methodology and Analysis.
5.     Consultancy assistance for IUIDP Sulawesi 11 project preparation (TA Package VII A), project
implementation plan, July 1995.
6.     Resettlement Action Plan: Bitung, preliminary investigations, July 1995.
7.     Resettlement Action Plan: Sengkang; preliminary investigations, July 1995.
8.     Resettlement Action Plan, Luwuk, July 1995 and revision of June, 1996.
9.     Volume 1: The Strategy for Fast Growing Areas Of Sulawesi and Irian Jaya. Final Report, May, 1994.
10.    Volume 2: Identifikasi Indikasi Program Untuk Kawasan Andalan Di Sulawesi Dan Irian Jaya, Final
Report, May, 1994.
11.    Consultancy assistance for IUIDP Sulawesi II project preparation (TA package VII A), Technical
Memorandum, February 1995.
12.    Report on Assessment of Water Quality in Pare Pare and Pangkajene South Sulawesi, and
Recommended Remedial Measures.
13.    Standard Operating Procedure for Sul2 UDP Annual Programming Administration Procedure, July
1996.
14.    Kajian Dit. Jen. Cipta Karva Kriteria Teknis/Financial Sul 2 UDP, July 1996.
15.    Preparation for Implementation - Draft TOR for Implementation Support Consultants
16.    Sample Annual project Implementation Plans for kendari, Menado, Palu and Barru, July 1996.
17.    Draft Governor's Decree for Resettlement (English version - sample), May 1996.
18.   Implementation Guidelines to the Governor's Decree (English version - sample).



102
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 2
19.    Draft Decree by Regent/Mayor (English version - sample).
20.    Updated Technical Memoranda, June 1996.
21.    Model of Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum, June 1996.
22.    Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) for Pemda II and PDAM, June 1996.
23.    Draft Final PJM Summary Sulawesi 2 UDP, July 1996.
24.    Final Economic/Financial Analyses for Sub Projects of all Towns, July 1996.
25.    Draft Procurement Arrangements, July 1996.
26.    Final FINPRO Analyses for Water Supply Sector, June 1996.
27.    Waste Water and Solid Waste Management Master Plan for Ujung Pandang - JICA, May 1996 (8
volumes).
28.    Draft Final PJMs for North, Central, South and Southeast Provinces, July 1996.



INDONEbIA                                                    IA           j    'j
SECOND SULAWESI URBAN                                        :               '
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       M '                 '
0100           200             300 KILOMETERS                4w                            A N  r E         A
I     I                              *a) c                         e"-       .6          {
0   50   100      150         200MIIES              ~~~~~~~~INDIAN  OCE.N                    ,.b
N.~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ao: A  4lBrQo   J                                ,
r                        C .  .\   { ;.    po;                                              PHILIPPINES                                -
MALAYSIA                  >°
-                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,ehLp.Ior
PROJECT TOWNS                             NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                 ToIoud I
A     PROJECT TOWNS, SIJUDP                     PROVINCE ROADS
'SULAWESI RAN UAYA SORAN       ----- LOCAL ROADS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECr Sn 33AOIND -
g  'AJOR TOURIST ATTRACTIONS              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS           .---
9     MINE                                *     KABUPATEN CAPTTALS
,     MAJOR PORTS                         (     PROVINCE CAPITALS
-- -- - - . MAJOR FERRY/SHIPPING ROUTES   -------- KARUPATEN BOUNDARIES
±     DOMRSTTC AIRPORTS               - ---- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
+     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     ,,Ub
C  e I e b e s        S e o
I I- ~        w
Ial,I.p  p.  --.., ,       -
'                         _~~~~~~~~~~~~Ik                SULAWESI UAAn
KALIMANTAN
S-6-Q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A
SUILAWESI   s
TENGAH
Av-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
.  EAA w/   To,',gg.d,,,1   , 
N.~ ~ ~ P6
4bu SULIA                     t*X
/  E                                        h!kA ANj_   °ng \.
AN j Idi-' f ifI  \SUL AWEs 1 
A~~~~~~~~~".
B l,&popon ..T:  ENtGARA'(  >
*W*,~~~~~~~l _                                     d PL,                                                                        \ 
RaI'kpopn"_ -  w   LA                                86'e0t1 .0  TTOI,3=tLAIt,
o a ndo  S e o
5.                                                                                                                                    2'-~~~~~~~~~~~~t '-p d
A-It,--'--     rD°r       J°Ss                          .V 4~ 4>9_0------_                                                                5--
IS'  \jdbarnGng                                                                     25g









IMAGING
Report No:      15080 IND
Type: SAR



