                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 25719




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-41050 SCL-4105A SCPD-4105S)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                         FOR A

                    SECOND SULAWESI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      March 31, 2004




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2002)

                              Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                        Rp 1 = US$ 0.000112
                                      US$ 1 = Rp 8,927.20

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMDAL          Environmental Impact Assessment
APIP           Annual Program Implementation Plan
BAPPENAS       National Development Planning Agency
BKM            Community Self-Reliance Board
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DED            Detailed Engineering Design
DGURD          Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development
DO             Development Objective
DPRD           Local Legislative Body
ERR            Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOI            Government of Indonesia
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
INTIU          Investigations Unit of the World Bank Department of Institutional Integrity
IP             Implementation
IPLT           Septic Sludge Treatment Plant
IUIDP          Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (or Project)
KIMPRASWIL     Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
KIP            Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program
KKN            Corruption, Collusion and Nepotism
KPKN           Government Treasury
KSM            Community level self-reliance group comprising 5-20 individuals
LIDAP          Local Institutional Development Action Plan
MIIP           Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MPW            Ministry of Public Works (former)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
Padat Karya    Labor-intensive public works program
PCO            Project Coordinating Office
PDAM           Local Government Water Supply Enterprise
PFAMS          Project Financial and Accounting Monitoring System
PIS            Project Implementation Support
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PJM            Medium-term Expenditure Program
PM             Project Memorandum
PMU            Project Management Unit

POMMS        Performance-oriented Maintenance Management System
PPIM         Provincial Project Implementation Memorandum
PPIS         Provincial Project Implementation Support
PPMU         Provincial Project Management Unit
RAKORBANG    Annual Development Budget Coordination Meeting
RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
REPELITA     Five-Year Development Plan
RIAP         Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report (former)
SLA          Supplementary Loan Agreement
SOP          Standard Operating Procedures
SulS&MTDP    Sulawesi Small and Medium Towns Development Project (early name of
             Sul2UDP)
Sul2UDP      Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
TPA          Solid Waste Final Disposal Site
tribina      Triology of support: social, economic, physical
UDP          Urban Development Project
UfW          Unaccounted for Water
UMA          Urban Management Advisor
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
VOC          Vehicle Operating Cost
WTP          Water Treatment Plant



                          Vice President:     Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                       Country Director:      Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                         Sector Director:     Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                     Task Team Leader:        Mr. Risyana Sukarma, EASUR

                                         INDONESIA
                         Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44
Annex 8. Participating Cities                                                    45
Annex 9. Project Organization Structure                                          47
Annex 10. Project Achievements by Province                                       48
Annex 11. Impact of the Economic Crisis                                          57
Annex 12. Efforts to Promote Good Governance                                     62
Annex 13. Summary of Fiduciary Review Findings                                   64
Annex 14. Comments Received from GOI and Other Participants                      73

Project ID: P036053                                                  Project Name: Second Sulawesi Urban Development
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Risyana Sukarma                                         TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project                L/C/TF Number: CPL-41050; SCL-4105A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4105S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (60%); Roads &
                            highways (20%); Central government administration (10%);
                            Sub-national government administration (5%); Other social services
                            (5%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Municipal governance and institution building (S); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/17/1995                                     Effective:                           04/14/1997
     Appraisal: 06/10/1995                                         MTR:                             04/09/1999
      Approval: 11/21/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:             Risyana Sukarma                                Heinrich K. Unger
ICR Primary Author:             Stephen R. Dice and Risyana
                                Sukarma


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context. In 1987, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) issued a statement of urban policies calling for
Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programs (IUIDP) as the operational approach for achieving
the national urban sector objectives of: (a) strengthening local governments to build, operate and maintain
local services; (b) improving the planning and programming of urban infrastructure investments; (c)
mobilizing local revenues and optimizing their use; and (d) strengthening consultative processes among
various levels of government, particularly with the participation of municipalities and their citizens.
Effectively all Indonesian urban projects prepared for Bank financing from 1988 through 1997 were
designed within this GOI policy framework, including the Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development Project
(Ln. 3340-IND) which assisted nine large cities and provincial capitals on the island of Sulawesi from
1991.

Under the national Five-Year Development Plan (REPELITA V) covering the preparation period of the
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project (Sul2UDP), GOI continued to develop the IUIDP process to
emphasize: (a) expanding the scope of IUIDP to include additional sub-sectors which were deemed
important to promote the economic development of cities; (b) strengthening local government institutional
capabilities; (c) improving operations and maintenance (O&M) of urban infrastructure; (d) improving cost
recovery and implementing more fully integrated systems for financing urban infrastructure services; and
(e) increasing attention to urban land and environmental management.

The identification and concept review was conducted for a project entitled the "Sulawesi Small and
Medium Towns Development Project" (SulS&MTDP), and in early 1995 consultants were assigned to
prepare medium-term local investment programs (PJMs) as well as local capacity-building and revenue
enhancement plans (LIDAP and RIAP) for each of 18 small and medium-sized towns in all four provinces
of Sulawesi. The original intent was to simplify the IUIDP process for rapid application in smaller urban
areas in Indonesia, many of which were not incorporated municipalities, but which were important service
centers for the surrounding districts (kabupaten). On the basis of models prepared for the Second East Java
Urban Development Project (Ln. 4017-IND) which had piloted simplified IUIDP documentation, the
SulS&MTDP preparation was expeditiously completed and an appraisal mission authorized for June 1995.
The mission found that an approximately $50 million project was mostly ready in the 18 targeted towns,
but noted that GOI and the four provincial governments wished to expand the coverage of the project, to
which the appraisal team had expressed reservation on the grounds of weak local capacities and implied
preparation delays.

The debate within the Bank and with GOI regarding the appropriate size and coverage for this operation
took more than six months after the appraisal mission. In early 1996, the Bank regional management
agreed with the request from GOI to include two additional groups of urban areas in the project: (i) a
"second phase" of financing for the nine Sulawesi cities actively implementing IUIDP programs with
funding from the SulIrjaUDP (then on-going, but completion scheduled for 1996) and (ii) an additional 14
small and medium towns throughout Sulawesi (most in South Sulawesi) to cover all urban areas on the
island (see Annex 8 for the complete list). The SAR was revised accordingly to include a total of 41 urban
areas and the loan size was increased to $155 million, based on only notional program proposals from the
additional 23 local governments. In retrospect, the decision to expand the project created many of
subsequent problems due to inadequate local implementation capacities, inadequate GOI and provincial
oversight capacities. The Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project Loan was approved in November



                                                      - 2 -

1996 and became effectiveness in April 1997; it was the largest Bank urban investment loan to-date in
Indonesia.

The main development objective of Sul2UDP was to improve the delivery of urban infrastructure services
by local governments on a sustainable basis. The more specific operational objectives were to: (a) provide
urban services through appropriate economic investments in physical infrastructure (roads, water supply,
sanitation, drainage, solid waste management, markets, and transport terminals); (b) strengthen urban
management with improved operations and maintenance activities for urban services, and support for
planning, programming, budgeting, financial management and local revenue generation by local
governments; and (c) improve urban environmental management and reduce local environmental impacts of
development.

Assessment of Objectives. These objectives reflected essential priorities for urban infrastructure
development in Indonesia at that time, as identified both by the Government and by the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). They were consistent with government strategy for a more balanced economic
growth, as well as for alleviating poverty in the eastern islands, by improving urban infrastructure services.
They also reflected the priorities in the Bank's CAS which "emphasizes urban environmental management
for water and sanitation, while retaining substantial presence in transport development."

3.2 Revised Objective:

Less than six months after loan effectiveness, the East Asian economic crisis of 1997 disrupted all Bank
operations in Indonesia (see Annex 11 for a summary of the crisis impact). Responding to the government's
request, an objective was added to the project to include employment generation through the execution of
small, labor-intensive infrastructure works, known padat karya in Indonesian. These works were designed
to address the growing unemployment problem resulting from the crisis that continued from September
1997 to the late 1990s. The project proved flexible to allocate about US$11 million for these works.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had two major components, infrastructure works and local government development, as
described below.

(a) Infrastructure Works involved 10 sub-components as follows:

(i) Urban Planning to finance the preparation of district development plans, site plans, district action plans,
conservation and environmental plans, site layout and design plans, and detailed town planning studies.
(ii) Water Supply to finance leakage detection and repair programs, as high priorities, and systems
engineering studies. Funds were also provided for works such as transmission and distribution networks,
installation of hydrants, construction of reservoirs, and construction of office space and laboratories and
purchase of lab equipment for water enterprises (PDAMs). Financing for institutional development and
training for PDAM staff in water loss reduction, operation and maintenance (O&M) and financial
management was also included.
(iii) Human Waste/Sanitation including civil works for construction of sludge treatment plans (IPLTs) and
communal septic tanks and toilets, as well as detailed engineering design (DED), sludge removal
equipment, groundwater testing kits, institutional capacity-building and public awareness packages.
(iv) Drainage/Flood Control financed the construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary
drainage canals, normalization of river banks, deferred and incremental O&M. DED was intended to
analyze flood control systems and retention basins, and review the usefulness of hydraulic flood control



                                                      - 3 -

gates in low-lying areas. Public awareness training was also included to address illegal trash dumping
issues and to improve O&M.
(v) Urban Roads financed the acquisition of the necessary land (using local funds), construction and/or
upgrading of arteries, roadside drains, collector roads, local roads, bridges, culverts, and traffic signal
installation to improve traffic flows. Periodic and routine maintenance were also included and well as
capacity building.
(vi) Solid Waste Management was to provide for increased collection coverage and development of new
solid waste disposal sites (TPAs) in most towns. Sites were to be developed as sanitary landfills and
controlled dumps and sludge disposal plants to handle septic tank effluent in a number of locations. The
component also included the procurement of equipment, training, and public awareness building.
(vii) Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program was to contribute to improving the living
conditions of slums and "kampungs." Upgrades were to include footpaths, drainage, sanitation
improvements, water supply taps, and road construction. Community participation was intended to achieve
more targeted and sustainable results.
(viii) Markets and Transport Terminals, funded through sub-loans to local governments, included the
rehabilitation and new construction of markets and terminals with shop stalls and ancillary facilities for
water supply, waste management, parking and access. Studies for siting and detailed cost recovery were
also included.
(ix) Detailed Design was included for final engineering design and supervision of the more complex
sub-projects.
(x) Resettlement and Rehabilitation costs of the project-affected people were included.

(b) Local Government Development

The project recognized that improvements to the delivery of urban infrastructure services depended on
strengthening management capacity of local governments. While this was recognized as a long-term
process, the project included a major institutional support strategy that emphasized on-the-job training with
the help of consultants. Each of the four provinces was to have an implementation support team located in
the field, composed of two to three professionals in the areas of municipal engineering, planning, and
finance. These specialists were to assist in the local implementation of the IUIDP urban management tools,
including the local institutional development action plans (LIDAP), the revenue improvement action plans
(RIAP), the program financial and accounting management system (PFAMS) and the performance-oriented
maintenance management system (POMMS).

Assessment of Components. While using the investment on public infrastructure facilities as a vehicle,
the project was to focus on the Government's high priority for improved urban services, i.e., for increasing
the local implementation and management capacities. Weak local government capacity to plan, implement
and manage sub-projects and for municipal management for service delivery was intended to be addressed
under the second objective of the project with a relatively large technical assistance budget (compared with
similar past projects). The second objective also included environmental impact assessments and adoption
of measures to improve urban environmental management. In the course of project implementation, the
project scope was modified at the request of the Borrower to support community-based KIP
(poor-neighborhood improvement program) to improve job opportunities for the poor following the national
economic crisis of 1997. While the physical infrastructure facilities included in the project were largely
completed successfully, the project was not able to achieve significantly the development objectives of
improving urban and environmental management and improve the efficiency of service delivery.




                                                      - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The emergency program of small-scale civil works for employment generation (padat karya), including
selected refugee settlement sites, was the only new subcomponent added to the Project, and most local
governments included these expenditures in their KIP budgets. However, civil unrest in Eastern Indonesia
during the economic crisis resulted in a large number of persons fleeing the troubled areas, particularly
Maluku from 1998 through 2000, and then resettling in makeshift conditions in nearby areas. Buton in
Southeast Sulawesi was one such area receiving a significant influx of refugees. GOI established an
emergency relief program to assist local governments to provide basic services for these refugees, including
in Bau Bau, the capital of Kabupaten Buton. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) requested, and the
Bank agreed, to allocate $400,000 from the loan to rehabilitate the refugees following a needs assessment
and preparation of a rehabilitation strategy in October 1999. Subsequently, GOI also allocated $300,000
in its FY2000 budget, primarily for the improvement or extension of urban infrastructure which had been
degraded or overwhelmed by the influx of refugees. These emergency works, which became part of the Bau
Bau Medium-Term Expenditure Program (PJM), were completed successfully. The padat karya program
to improve poor neighborhoods with public works as an extension of KIP was also completed successfully
in most localities. Community participation played an important role in the success of KIP and the refugee
rehabilitation subprojects. It is to be noted in this context that the project responded extremely well to the
emergency situation in the country by including funding of public works for the poor and assistance to
refugees.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory, considering the highly decentralized nature of this over-ambitious
project covering 41 cities, inadequate preparation of most subprojects, and low implementation capacity of
local governments. The preparation consultants performed reasonably well in developing proposals for
infrastructure investments including PJMs, RIAPs and LIDAPs for the initial 18 cities. Subsequently,
citing the importance of the smaller towns and in the interests of a more balanced development, GOI
insisted, and the Bank agreed rather reluctantly, to include an additional 23 towns with almost no
preparation beyond very notional discussions of investment "needs" with the additional local governments.
The necessary PJM, RIAP or LIDAP documents for the additional projects were expected to be produced
during the implementation process by local governments under the guidance of implementing agencies (at
provincial levels) and consultants.

The SAR documented the project and its background particularly well. Assessments of the operational
feasibility of working with a large number of local governments concluded that utilizing the four provincial
governments as intermediary program managers (as in the previous Second East Java Urban Development
Project) was the only practical approach, but acknowledged that none of the Sulawesi provinces
approached the technical and administrative capacities of provincial units in Java. Similarly, many local
governments in Sulawesi were recognized to be much less capable than their Javanese counterparts. To
provide technical and operational support to the program, the project design proposed numerous
consultants to assist with nearly every aspect of project implementation, but there was inadequate capacity
in the local governments and implementation agencies to effectively manage and coordinate the activities of
consultants. As a result, the quality of project preparation for the 23 additional towns included in the
project proved less than satisfactory. In hindsight, it proved ineffective to leave the preparation of PJM,
RIAP and LIDAP documents for the additional project towns to the local governments, under the guidance
of their provincial implementing agencies and consultants.




                                                       - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of intended objectives and outputs from Sul2UDP was generally unsatisfactory. However,
developing a clear summary of the project achievements and a concise evaluation of the causal and
contributing factors leading to the project's disappointing performance is complicated by both the generally
poor quality of project records and the chaotic conditions prevailing in Indonesia during the implementation
period (April 1997 through December 2002). This summary attempts to reconcile many conflicting reports
and data sets generated by various project teams, as well as widely divergent views of the project's
achievements by the participants. Comments on this draft from GOI and other local participants are
presented in Annex 14.

The complexity of the project, in terms of the number of institutions involved (normally 3-5 per local
government), the number of project components (with more than 2,500 total contract packages), and their
geographic dispersion (41 local governments in four provinces), created exceptional challenges for GOI
oversight and Bank supervision of the project. When these complications were further compounded by the
economic crisis and subsequent social and political turmoil, it is understandable that coordination and
communication mechanisms designed for more "normal" conditions failed badly, contributing to the poor
performance of project management and implementation. The risks of the decentralized design of the
project for local governments mostly unfamiliar with the IUIDP concept and working with international
donors were highlighted in the SAR and were obvious even during the first year of implementation before
the economic crisis engulfed Indonesia. The project design assumed that strong provincial support and
central government assistance were needed but, in reality, were not forthcoming. Poor communication
among various government agencies was also identified during the first supervision mission as a critical
problem for smooth project coordination, and it remained problematic throughout the life of the project,
including during efforts to assemble data for this ICR.

Review of output targets for provision of urban infrastructure and services was also problematic for this
report, as the SAR target estimates were revised with the completion of PJM documents and sub-project
proposals for the 23 additional towns, as well as PJM revisions in the original 18 towns to reflect changing
local government financial capacities. Thus, the "revised targets" reported by project management were
largely met for physical investments, but the objectives of improved municipal and environmental
management and improved service delivery were not met satisfactorily. Sustainability is questionable as
the transition to a stronger municipal management focus on operation and maintenance activities did not
materialize in project towns. Overall, the objectives of improved planning, programming, budgeting,
financial management and local revenue generation by local governments were not fully achieved. The
community-based Kampung Improvement Project (KIP), however, provided better results in sustainability
because of greater community ownership and participation, as noted earlier.

An assessment by objectives is given below.

Objective 1: Provision of urban services through appropriate economic investments in physical
infrastructure (roads, water supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste management, markets, and
transport terminals).




                                                      - 6 -

Assessing the achievement of this objective of the project that covers four different provinces is made by
independently evaluating the achievement of sub-projects in each province. As a result of mixed
performance in each province and local government, the overall cumulative achievements of this objective
are rated unsatisfactory. Detailed assessments by province and local government are elaborated in Annex
10. In general, road subprojects under the project were completed satisfactorily, reaching intended target
levels. As for the drainage and flood control sub-projects, they did not fully reach the intended service
levels as the loan amount was reduced following GOI requests. Both road , drainage and flood control
sub-projects are functional and have created significant benefits but, similar to other projects in Indonesia,
lack of sufficient funds for O&M remains a concern. The construction of transportation terminals included
in the project has been mostly completed but some of them are facing problems of inadequate access roads
and water supply. Further, achievements under the water supply sub-projects are below expectations,
especially due to the difficulty in reducing the high level of unaccounted for water (UfW). Under the solid
waste component, garbage collection facilities have reached the intended service level, but the operation of
landfills (TPAs) remains problematic as most of them still use open dumps. As for the sanitation
component, it did, to a considerable extent, reach the intended service level. However, the environment
management in general did not receive adequate attention from local governments and the general public.
As for the community-driven KIP (poor neighborhood improvement program), progress has been highly
satisfactory mainly because of strong support from the public and the ongoing revisions that were made
during implementation.

Objective 2: Strengthen the operations and maintenance activities for urban services, and support
improved planning, programming, budgeting, financial management and local revenue generation by
local governments.

Achievement of this objective is rated unsatisfactory. The organization of this project, as shown in Annex
9, designated Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development/DGURD (formerly known as DG
Cipta Karya) of the Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure/KIMPRASWIL (formerly known
as the Ministry of Public Works/MPW) as the Executing Agency of the Project. The overall responsibility
for the preparation and implementation of the Project rested with DGURD. However, program preparation
and implementation were carried out by a Project Implementing Unit (PIU) in each local government,
coordinated by a Project Management Unit (PMU). At the provincial level, a provincial project
management unit (PPMU) was established in each province, to control and coordinate the PMU operations.
These institutional arrangements were formalized in a Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum
(PPIM) prepared by the head of the PPMU in each province. This PPIM documented implementation roles,
responsibilities and procedures of program preparation and implementation.

A team of advisory consultants (Provincial Project Implementation Support/PPIS) was attached to each
PPMU to assist the PPMU in daily operation of its tasks and responsibilities. Another team of Detailed
Engineering Design (DED) consultants was assigned in each respective PPMU to assist all the PMUs in
preparing detailed engineering designs of the proposed facilities. Each province (except in South Sulawesi)
had two groups of DED consultants, responsible for the 'urban road component' and the 'non-urban road
components', respectively. In South Sulawesi Province, due to large number of participating local
governments, there were five subregional sets of two DED consultants, each responsible for the designated
region. At the central level, the Executing Agency was also assisted by two groups of advisors, one for the
Project Coordinating Office (PCO) and the other for Project Implementation Support (PIS). Both had roles
and functions to assist the Executing Agency in coordinating implementation progress, disbursements,
covenant compliance, training, performance indicators monitoring and other specific tasks needed to
facilitate project implementation. These groups of advisors were stationed both in Jakarta and Makassar.
After mid-term review discussions in April 1999, a Project Officer representing the Directorate General of


                                                      - 7 -

Urban and Rural Development (DGURD) was assigned to the PCO in Makassar to act as coordinator of all
the PPMU operations, and to liaison with central government agencies, particularly with the Executing
Agency. But this individual did not stay for long because the field posting was not viewed favorably.
(Jakarta-based central government staff usually resist field assignments in outlying provinces for lack of
incentives to accept hardship assignments). The very poor performance of the consultants mostly hired
locally, without much competition, to support implementation of this project must be seen as one of the
main factors for less than satisfactory development outcomes at the local government level. This was also
partly because the consultants did not receive the expected support from each province and local
government by way of counterpart staff and adequate office space, as counterpart funding was a problem.
Consulting assignments were also awarded piecemeal to fit more with agency alignments rather than work
requirements.

Municipal planning and implementation. The program planning and budgeting in the IUIDP approach was
primarily the responsibility of local/municipal government or "kabupaten/kota" level. The new law on
decentralization (Law No. 22/1999 on Regional/Local Governance) reinforced the local government role in
planning and programming. As the process was designed, an annual program implementation plan (APIP)
was supposed to be drawn up between the province and each implementing city (including its PDAM), to
confirm understandings and commitments concerning the physical works expenditures as defined in the
medium-term investment program (PJM), financing plans, RIAPs, LIDAPs, performance indicators, land
acquisition and resettlement, and O&M requirements. The APIPs were to be discussed at the annual
implementation review meetings with the participation of Bank supervision missions. The local
governments were to confirm the investment programs, O&M budgets, specific revenue targets, and
measures to strengthen institutional capabilities for urban management. In practice, detailed APIPs were
only prepared for the first two years in most locations. This resulted in improper planning and budgeting at
the municipal level, and poor understanding on project implementation mechanisms (such as requirements
for Bank's prior review, understanding the Bank Guidelines for consultants' selection and procurement of
goods and works). Compliance with the established IUIDP procedures and Bank requirements was absent
in most locations, primarily due to the poor performance of the advisory consultants and the failure in
support and oversight by the provincial and central GOI units. The project design intended that the annual
reviews would reward the good performing local governments with additional investments, and conversely
reduce funding to poorly performing local governments with low achievement of targets. Despite the
Bank's insistence, this was never implemented.

Further, the results of the annual reviews were to be recorded in annual Project Memoranda (PM) produced
by each local government (and PDAM), and submitted to the PPMU for approval. The PM included
sub-project definition, budgeting and supervision arrangements, necessary O&M, and financing sources.
The Draft PM was supposed to be used as input for the local and provincial annual development budget
meeting (Rapat Koordinasi Pembangunan/Rakorbang) at which the overall investment program for each
local government was to be established. Any new sub-projects or changes were required to be reported to
the PPMU for review and for submission to the Bank. Unfortunately, in most localities the PMs were
prepared only for the first two years, and the provincial annual meetings were held without using the PM as
a basis. This review process was simply ignored by most provincial and local teams.

Despite the lack of full preparation, in the interest of allowing needed local investments in 41 cities,
sub-project investment proposals were agreed by the provinces, DGURD and the Bank based on: (i)
compliance with established technical standards, guidelines and criteria (incorporated in the IUIDP
technical memoranda); (ii) a minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of 12% for water supply and
drainage investments of over Rp 2 billion; (iii) resettlement action plans, where necessary; and (iv)
environmental management and monitoring requirements. Within a year of Board approval, the project was


                                                       - 8 -

adversely affected by the national economic and political crisis. The project also suffered because of the
non-availability of adequate local government counterpart funding.

Operation and maintenance. Of particular concern was that even though local governments understood
the importance of adequate operation and maintenance of the facilities provided as well as existing
infrastructure assets, unfortunately, this understanding was not well reflected in local annual budgets
during the project period. The Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System (POMMS) agreed
during project preparation, was not implemented because GOI and implementing agencies considered the
system was too complicated to be used in Sulawesi. Thus, the project management had no basis to estimate
the required O&M expenditures by each local government and prepare budget estimates. The Bank should
have enforced the use of POMMS through necessary training of staff.

Financial management One major concern expressed during project preparation and by every supervision
mission was the weak capacities in the Sulawesi local and provincial governments for adequate
procurement and financial management of this complex decentralized project. During implementation, these
fears were heightened by the generally poor quality and performance of the consultants selected to assist
project implementing units. The Bank tried to compensate for these shortcomings by dedicating at least a
two-day procurement workshop during every supervision mission (which took place every six months).
Moreover, one Bank Procurement Advisor spent over half of his time solely on this project during the first
two years of implementation. As for the poor quality of local budgeting and financial management staff, it
was not particularly improved by the project. Broader events such as national financial crisis further
complicated the problem with respect to financial management. A pilot regional supervision in South
Sulawesi was carried out by the Bank covering this project along with others in different sectors to identify
issues, and prepare action plans for the borrower to act upon. However, problems continued without much
remedial action by the borrower. In light of continuing problems, the Sul2UDP was selected by the Bank
for piloting in Indonesia a comprehensive project fiduciary review from late 2001 through March 2002. An
overview of the findings of this Fiduciary Review is presented in Annex 13. The Review confirmed fears of
the Bank supervision teams, indicating weak fiduciary practices in procurement, implementation and
financial management systems (disbursement, accounting, record keeping and auditing). The review
indicated that some project-related disbursements were made in the absence of adequate supporting
documentation. Further, one procurement post-review revealed irregularities in financial management in 56
out of 60 contracts reviewed. The most common types of irregularities found were incomplete
documentation, and the use of improper bidding processes. Following the above Review, the Bank and GOI
agreed to terminate all project activities from mid-2002, except completion of on-going works needed to
realize benefits.

Revenue generation. Findings from each of the four provinces suggest that the targets of local government
revenue increases from the Project were not achieved, with the exception of North Sulawesi Province,
where revenue in seven local governments increased in most of the cities, in some instances by more than
100% over a four-year period. However, the project was not able to strengthen significantly local
government capacity to mobilize funds and optimize their use in the other three provinces.

Implementation of training program. The Project provided large amounts of Loan funds for a training
program, including post graduate courses and overseas trainings. About 1,181 government officers
participated in the program, of which 161 completed a post-graduate course, and 49 received overseas
training in Australia, Singapore and the Netherlands. The impact of training on improving the capacity of
local government officials is difficult to measure, but a general assessment of the training program
indicated that it did not achieve all its intended benefits. Late delivery of the training program and the poor
performance of training consultants also contributed to the inadequacy of the training impact. An


                                                      - 9 -

independent assessment of the training program could have revealed more clearly the impact of the program
but was not undertaken by either GOI or the Bank. Anecdotal evidence suggests that most training was well
received and many local government officials benefited. But the project could have benefited more from a
well-defined training program at project preparation rather than from the one developed during project
implementation.

Objective 3: Improve urban environmental management and reduce local environmental impacts.

Achievement of this objective is rated unsatisfactory. In total, the Project constructed 39 TPAs and 14
IPLTs, including the necessary heavy equipment (dump trucks, bulldozers, desludging trucks, etc.). Both
types of facilities were built to improve urban environmental conditions, and to reduce, as much as
possible, local environmental impact of urban development. As mentioned earlier, the local emphasis was
often more on constructing new facilities, with inadequate attention to service systems such as collection
and transportation. The results indicate that most of these facilities are not being operated properly. Open
dumping is practiced at most TPAs instead of controlled or sanitary landfills. IPLTs are operated
intermittently or not at all due to limited incoming sludge, and/or the septic tank desludging operation is
ineffective due to lack of local regulations. The situation is the same in most of Indonesia, especially in
communities off of Java and Bali, in spite of numerous environmental management plans prepared,
including standard operating procedures for operating TPAs and IPLTs.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Urban Roads ($55.5 million SAR, $15.69 million actual). This component is rated as satisfactory. More
than 965 km of new and improved roads were completed, out of 815 km targeted in the revised PJMs. To a
large extent, road sub-projects reached the intended service level. However, accumulated benefits over the
lifetime of the completed projects will depend on the availability of adequate O&M budget. While the
quality of road construction and maintenance remain generally acceptable, and drainage works along the
road are of reasonable quality, in some cases the drains were built too high and, therefore, cannot drain the
adjacent roads, causing ponding and damage to roads. Also, drain inlets were either lacking or not large
enough. A specific mission was launched to deal with this issue, and some positive benefits resulted.

Drainage ($50.33 million SAR, $17.44 million actual). This component is rated unsatisfactory. About
559 km of primary and secondary drains were completed out of 890 km targeted in the revised PJMs. This
component partially reached intended service levels and, to some extent, it was able to reduce the flooding
area and inundation period. An important issue with the completed facilities remains poor maintenance.
Drains are often blocked due to sedimentation and accumulated garbage in the channels, even in the
newly-built drains. Drainage maintenance does not seem to be a priority task for most local governments.

Solid Waste ($23.46 million SAR, $5.72 million actual). This component overall is rated satisfactory
since the physical achievements exceeded most targets. However, waste management has not been generally
efficient. Average collection coverage is low (sometimes only 55%). Agency organization and staffing are
inadequate; TPA workshops built under the project are sometimes not used, and open dumping and burning
are practiced in most TPAs despite the existence of site operation plans (except in Pare Pare, Donggala,
Kendari and Bau Bau, where controlled landfilling is practiced), Part of the problem is the lack of heavy
equipment (i.e., dozers) to place, compact and cover the garbage; although these were eligible for financing
under the project, counterpart funds were often not available for this purpose. Four training programs for
TPA operations were funded by the project and a separate consultant assistance was added but in many
communities the attitudes to solid waste disposal did not change (a countrywide issue).




                                                     - 10 -

Water Supply ($37.86 million SAR, $14.68 million actual): This component is rated unsatisfactory. In
physical terms, most of the water supply sub-projects in the revised PJMs were completed but the number
of connections is far below the SAR target. The additional connections were recorded as 42,785 compared
to 120,205 as planned, and installed capacity was increased by 820 l/s versus the SAR target of 1,055 l/s.
Some of the schemes failed to fully serve the intended beneficiaries, due to incomplete schemes, as in Pare
Pare, where the treatment plant could not be commissioned. Water loss reduction programs, rehabilitation
and extension of transmission and distribution systems and reservoirs were included in the Project.
However, the results indicate that the UfW reduction program was not fully successful in reducing the
losses as intended. Moreover, lack of a national policy framework to provide guidance to the water sector
was a contributor to unsatisfactory results.

Sanitation ($7.31 million SAR, $0.82 million actual). This component is rated unsatisfactory. About
425 public toilets and 93 MCKs were built, 171 communal septic tanks and 30 IPLTs (sludge treatment
plants) were constructed, and 16 desludging trucks were purchased. Despite the large numbers of sanitation
facilities constructed, this project component did not fully reach the intended service levels. Many
investments made are not being used. Sanitation and environmental management in general still do not get
the attention they deserve, both from local governments as well as the general public, as previously noted.
The findings from 18 out of 23 local governments in South Sulawesi Province indicated that IPLT
management is less than satisfactory, as none of the IPLTs constructed are functioning satisfactorily. This
is primarily because the provision of these facilities is central-government driven, without adequate
participation from the municipality or community involvement. The 1999 MTR mission revealed that a
serious problem in this sector was the inadequate coordination of investment planning and sequencing, e.g.,
some IPLTs built without sludge trucks. The community-managed sanitation program in Selayar could
have provided a best practice example of community participation, but was cancelled when Sul2UDP was
stopped in mid-2002 for reasons noted earlier.

KIP and MIIP ($16.9 million SAR, $4.25 million actual). The actual costs associated with KIP (poor
neighborhood improvement program) and MIIP (market infrastructure improvement program) were
US$4.25 million. In the middle of implementation, because of the national economic crisis, an additional
community-based component, a special labor-intensive program ("padat karya") was introduced to relieve
the impact of incoming refugees in Buton. A new Loan category with an allocation of $10.97 million for
this additional component was added as Civil Works under Part A.3 of the Project Agreement; and a total
of $6.52 million was spent from this allocation.

The KIP component is rated satisfactory. KIP was originally planned and implemented using a
conventional approach. In most cases, KIP sub-projects were largely delivered as intended. Main reason
behind the success in implementing KIP is that it was generally supported strongly by the community.
Since 1999, a new approach for community-based KIP was introduced as a pilot project. This program, by
definition, brought with it a very high level of community participation in the urban slum areas. It
demonstrated that the involvement of the community in all aspects of the project cycle -- planning,
programming, budgeting, implementation, supervision, operation, maintenance and evaluation -- improves
quality of the finished product and, more importantly, helps ensure the sustainability of facilities provided.
Community-based KIP was implemented in many locations in all four provinces. It was implemented in two
rounds, the first round was mostly completed by the end of 2000, and the second round commenced
immediately thereafter. The total program covered 2,039 ha of improved sites and 109 km of improved
footpaths. The basic principle of community-based KIP is the use of the tribina approach or the trilogy of
support: social, economic and physical. The community establishes a self-reliance group (KSM) which
comprises 5 to 20 individuals. After the KSMs have been formed, they subsequently consolidate at the
community level in the target location to prepare a legal institution known as Community Self-Reliance


                                                     - 11 -

Board or BKM. KSM participants select persons to manage the BKM. All of these activities were
facilitated by local NGOs contracted by the Project. The activities range widely on these three supports, but
were usually balanced with a relative proportion of 60:15:25 for social, economic and physical support
activities, respectively.

The overall MIIP component is also rated satisfactory. However, the achievement under this component
presents a mixed picture, with some very good sub-projects, either involving the private sector for a major
part of the investment, or stimulating private sector investment through market/terminal construction by
local governments. Other good examples were low-cost rehabilitation works for older markets in the town
centers (rather than building expensive new facilities out of town). However, market maintenance and
cleanliness activities have not been very good in most cases.

Transportation Terminals ($8.03 million SAR, $1.62 million actual). This component is rated
unsatisfactory. The new bus terminals were built in 17 out of 25 towns targeted in the revised PJMs. The
choice of some terminal sites, which are far from the town center, has raised questions on optimization.
Access roads to terminals have sometimes been left unfinished due to budget constraints. Some terminals
are not fully functional due to various reasons ranging from lingering land acquisition issues, incomplete
access roads, improper location compared to the town development plan, and missing supporting facilities
such as water supply. Planning was inadequate.

Overall Achievements: To measure the achievement of the project's main development objective in a
sustainable manner, the SAR (Annex 5) proposed a broad set of performance indicators. Five groups of
performance indicators were defined in the SAR: (i) service performance; (ii) poverty alleviation (iii) urban
environment; (iv) sustainability of development; and (v) social impact. Progress in achieving the
development objectives, as noted before, has been limited as measured against the agreed performance
indicators. The assessment of project achievement in terms of physical achievements is elaborated in
Annex 10, and the result is summarized in the following table. This assessment was difficult due to
incomplete records and conflicting data. However, an attempt was made to critically review the available
data and prepare an assessment. This assessment shows, as noted, physical progress was satisfactory under
road, solid waste and KIP/MIIP components; but it was unsatisfactory under the drainage, water supply,
sanitation and transportation terminal components.




                                                     - 12 -

Table 1. Physical Accomplishments

                                                                                Physical Accomplishment
           Subsector                  Indicator
                                                                        Targeted             Achieved
 Roads                      Km built and rehabilitated       815 km                          964,7 km
 Drainage                   Km built and rehabilitated       215,283 m of primary drain      167,268 m of primary drain
                                                             676,196 m of secondary drain    392,338 m of secondary drain
                                                             25,922 ha of flood protection   25,545 ha of flood protection
 Solidwaste                 Waste (volume) properly          224 container                   554 containers
                            disposed at final disposal site  95 waste truck                  241 waste truck
                            (TPA)                            37 landfills (TPA)              35 landfills (TPA)
                                                             760,000 beneficiaries           2,195,000 beneficiaries
 Water Supply               # of household connections       120,205 connections             42,785 connections
                                                             262 public hydrants             161 public hydrants
                                                             19 reservoirs                   27 reservoirs
                                                             23 WTPs                         27 WTPs
                                                             409,500 beneficiaries           287,000 beneficiaries
 Sanitation                 Sludge (volume) properly         28 sewage plants                30 sewage plants
                            treated                          155 communal septic tanks       171 communal septic tanks
                                                             827,750 beneficiaries           820,000 beneficiaries
 KIP/MIIP                   Area improved                    2,205 ha slum improvement       2,039 ha slum improvement
                                                             142,868 m access road           109,371 m access road
                                                             225,000 beneficiaries           101,950 beneficiaries
 Terminal                   # of terminal built              25 units                        17 units



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Urban Roads. The ERRs for major urban road sub-projects were estimated in the SAR. Re-estimation of
ERRs for five selected sub-projects for this ICR followed the same methodology applied in the SAR. This
provides a basis for comparing the economic feasibility of the sub-projects before and after completion.
Selection was made based on the size of sub-project capital investment, location, and data availability and
quality. The benefits included: (i) savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and in road construction and
maintenance, and (ii) increase in land and property values. For the project to be economically justified, the
ERR is assumed to be at least 12%. In assessing actual sub-project performance, savings in VOC and in
travel time (in lieu of increase in land and property values due to unavailability of sufficient information),
were applied. A further check on economic viability was made by looking into the effect of excluding travel
time savings in the equation.

All five sub-projects evaluated have surpassed SAR estimates. The ERR ranged between 30 and 40%, all
well above target. The two smallest sub-projects, Kota Tondano (North Sulawesi) and Kota Baenteng
(South Sulawesi) resulted in the highest ERR because of expectedly higher net benefit streams. The largest
sample sub-project, Kota Palu (Central Sulawesi), showed relatively the lowest ERR due to higher
investment and operating cost requirements relative to accrued benefits. Experience arising from similar
urban roads programs has shown benefits arising from well planned high investment projects ultimately
catching up and overtaking costs.




                                                            - 13 -

Drainage/Flood Control. The ERRs for the drainage and flood control sub-projects were re-estimated for
three sub-projects chosen following the same criteria applied for urban roads. The SAR recognizes that
benefits such as reduction in flood-related physical damage, traffic disruptions and health problems are not
easily quantifiable. In place of these benefits, economic analysis was conducted using increase in land value
as the main parameter for economic viability. The project is economically justified if land value increases
are between 10 and 100% (with 10% serving as the minimum for relatively large developed areas, and as
an overall average). For small undeveloped areas, the SAR establishes 5% as acceptable. As with the other
sub-sectors, minimum ERR requirement is 12% for drainage sub-projects.

For the selected sub-projects, the results show increases in land value higher than the SAR lower limit of
10%. However, for large urban areas like Manado (North Sulawesi) and Kendari (Southeast Sulawesi), the
economic effects on the land value is assessed to be lower than the expectation at appraisal (average of
100%). It may well be that the economic effects on those urban areas are undervalued. Nevertheless, in
terms of ERR, the sub-projects are very much justified with ERR results ranging from 25 to 266%.

The three sub-projects analyzed are deemed representative of most of the other drainage systems installed
across the project area. With economically high returns as demonstrated by the selection, the drainage and
flood control component of the program may be assessed satisfactory.

A list of all sub-projects that received economic analysis prior to approval appears on the first page of
Annex 3. Detailed results of the ERR calculations are shown in Annex 3a.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Water Supply. For the water supply component, no ERR was calculated in the SAR as the overall benefits
are not easily quantifiable. FRR was estimated for 40 PDAMs, 13 of which were medium to large having
investments of Rp 4,000-8,500 million, 15 were small to medium with Rp 2,000-4,000 million investments,
and the rest were small with investments of Rp 600-2,000 million. The first group showed FRR of 13-23
percent with tariffs providing full cost recovery. The next group showed PDAMs covering only incremental
O&M despite tariff increases of over 50%. The last group showed marginal FRR of 8-11 percent, requiring
substantial government equity to minimize high tariff increases that would normally depress demand.

In assessing actual sub-project performance, six PDAMs were selected from the above grouping, with
samples from all provinces. Actual updated cost and revenue data have been used in cost recovery
evaluation and as bases for FRR projections. Details of these calculations are presented in Annex 3b.

PDAM Bantaeng (South Sulawesi) had complied with O&M cost recovery requirement during Sul 2 UDP,
but failed to meet full cost recovery given an operating ratio of over 100 percent from 1997-2002. Debt
service of the SLA commenced in 2002 and this has further added to losses. The main reason behind the
poor performance was the non-implementation of any tariff increase for four years until 1999. The
subsequent increase, however, was still not cost-reflective. The cost recovery picture in 2000 showed
average tariff to be even lower at Rp 833 than the unit O&M cost of Rp 857. A two-step tariff adjustment
of 25% each starting in 2003 and every two years thereafter would give PDAM Bantaeng a 38.2% FRR.

PDAM Kendari (Southeast Sulawesi) attained full cost recovery status prior to 2000. In 2000, unit
recurrent costs started to exceed unit water sales and the PDAM was only able to comply with O&M cost
recovery requirements with supplemental revenues provided by new connection fees and improved
collections. Technical problems resulting from the failure to implement the planned distribution system
under a previous loan program started to take its toll on the PDAM operations. The needed distribution



                                                     - 14 -

pipelines were installed later under grant funding from Sul2UDP. Prospects have turned brighter since then
with the PDAM being able to show a 2.27 DSCR in 2001. However, the tariff increases in 1998 and 1999
were not enough to provide allowance for depreciation. Kendari shows much potential for customer
development. The PDAM was able to generate almost 5,000 connections from 1997 to 2002 with much of
the necessary distribution lines in place. It is foreseen that the PDAM will reach a level of over 27,000
customers by 2015. With tariff increases of 25% applied every two years starting in 2004, FRR is expected
at 31%.

PDAM Maros (South Sulawesi) barely complied with O&M cost recovery during the period 1997-99 and
continued to suffer high losses due to cost inefficiencies after that. The PDAM imposed a 60% increase
towards the end of 1997, which helped maintain a 92% operating ratio until the end 1999. A 50% increase
approved by DPRD for 2000 helped relieve some of the financial pressures. But, with the PDAM
prioritizing salary increases (reportedly by 100%) and increasing overheads costs (reportedly by 108%),
those costs added to the direct costs (power cost alone rose 50%), and completely dissipated earnings from
the tariff adjustment. The period 1997-2002 also showed the unaccounted-for-water remained around 40
percent. However, Maros has growth potential, with the PDAM expected to reach almost 10,000
connections by 2015. UFW is currently being addressed under the PDAM UfW program. The matter of
cost inefficiencies in the past will have to be reviewed and avoided. To attain an acceptable level of
financial viability, the PDAM will need to increase tariffs by 30 percent every two years starting in 2004.
The projected FRR is 13.6 percent, surpassing the SAR minimum.

PDAM Minahasa (North Sulawesi) complied with O&M cost recovery requirement throughout the
assessment period. The operating ratio excluding depreciation was about 91 percent. However, if
depreciation were added, the operating ratio ranged between 114 and 131 percent. The average tariff by
2000 was Rp 1,585, which was just enough to recover the unit O&M cost of Rp 1,475. Full cost recovery
tariff was Rp 1,812, higher by over 14 percent. This PDAM is a big enterprise compared to others, with
connections reaching 22,524 in 2002. However, the PDAM may be encountering difficulties operating on a
commercial basis. Cost analysis showed that unit direct expenses were steady, but overheads increased 100
percent around the time tariff was adjusted in 1999. It appears that the tariff increase was not reflective of
costs and, therefore, liquidity problems affected the PDAM. Minahasa has little more room for additions to
the PDAM revenue base. Connections are seen to increase by another 3,000 by 2015. FRR is projected at
50.8% with tariff increases every two years by 25%. UFW will have to be reduced from its relatively high
levels. Average consumption is expected to improve as a result and so too revenue generation.

PDAM Tana Toraja (South Sulawesi) has been in compliance with the O&M cost recovery requirement.
The average tariff of Rp 1,028 in 2000 was well above the unit O&M cost of Rp 881. Full cost recovery
was not attainable until 2002 as reflected in the operating ratio (including depreciation) of 131-161 percent.
Review of existing financial reports showed lack of cost control, especially in staff salaries and overheads.
The PDAM was able to cope with recurrent expenses by reducing UfW (from 44 percent in 1997 to 33
percent in 2002), and achieving very good collection efficiency. Under Sul2UDP, the enterprise expanded
services by almost 3,000 new connections. The PDAM connections are expected to reach 12,120 by 2015.
With regular tariff increases of 20% every two years staring in 2004, the PDAM will surpass SAR target
for FRR at 27.6 percent.

PDAM Wajo (South Sulawesi) had been encountering difficulties complying even with the O&M cost
recovery. Although the average tariff in 2000 was higher than the average unit O&M cost, prior years had
operating ratios excluding depreciation and interest of above 100 percent. For the period 1997-2002, the
operating ratio including depreciation ranged between 134 and 216 percent. Available financial information
revealed high unit costs of power and chemicals arising from the supply of pumped heavily-treated surface


                                                       - 15 -

water. Tariff increases were timely but not cost-reflective. The last increase was followed by poor cost
controls of overheads which rose 148 percent. Adding to the enterprise problems were poor collections and
an increasing UfW. The PDAM also has a non-performing RDA loan on which principal and interest
arrears had grown to Rp 668 million at the end of 2000. A new loan under Sul2UDP also showed arrears
of Rp 22 million in unpaid commitment fees. The PDAM has growth potential for another 1,500 new
services by 2015. Projections show that the PDAM can surpass the SAR target with a FRR of 16 percent
following proposed 15 percent tariff increases every two years.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project's institutional development impact was negligible. First, GOI and provincial governments did
not make concerted efforts to improve local capacities early during project implementation to support
compliance with the project's objectives for institutional development. Second, the focus during the second
half of project implementation was very much on spending and increased disbursement, giving less priority
to institutional development. Despite a number of training programs implemented during the course of the
Project, their impact on strengthening institutional capacities at the municipal government level was
minimal. The Project was suspended in mid-2002, as noted earlier, following the conclusion of a fiduciary
review mission in four Sulawesi cities (see Annex 13) which revealed major problems with fiduciary
management of the project. During the second half of 2002 only a few contracts were approved to complete
the remaining urgent, unfinished works. The project management team had proposed to implement a major
institutional support strategy for improving governance (see Annex 12 for details) that emphasized
hands-on experience, following the cancellation of the UNDP-assisted program for urban management
advisory services to some local governments, but this strategy was not followed up because of the project
suspension by the Bank for reasons mentioned earlier.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Particularly the 1997/1998 economic crisis, coupled with the leadership change upon President Suharto's
resignation in May 1998, which were beyond the government control, undoubtedly had a significant impact
on the project. The significant depreciation of the Rupiah as a result of the crisis and political instability
not only increased the total cost of the project (in local currency terms) but also severely constrained the
ability of both the central and the local governments to provide counterpart funding, even after the
proportion of counterpart funds had been lowered down to 20 percent during the 1998 loan restructuring.
Annex 11 discusses the impact of the economic crisis in greater detail.

Civil unrest due to conflict between ethnic groups that occurred in several places in Indonesia affected,
directly or indirectly, the project performance in a number of project towns. The project was completely
stopped in Poso, Central Sulawesi Province, due to communal unrest and several riots. In Bau Bau,
Southeast Sulawesi Province, and Bitung, North Sulawesi Province, the local governments had not taken
adequate measures to minimize the social impact of incoming refugees from Maluku. This affected, to a
significant extent, the capacity of these local governments to implement the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Central Government as the Executing Agency. The request to expand the original project design by adding
23 additional local governments delayed by at least one year the processing and effectiveness of the project.
Subsequently, GOI did not take measures to ensure that local capacities were established or local staff were
trained in IUIDP/Bank procedures and requirements. The unfortunate result was a complex project spread


                                                      - 16 -

over 41 local governments in four provinces, the majority of which were unprepared at appraisal and
incapable of properly executing the project as designed, and for which GOI had provided inadequate
resources to manage or supervise (despite using Bank loan funds to hire a large team of consultants who
were late being procured/mobilized and were ineffectively managed with little guidance, coordination and
supervision). A comprehensive municipal management assistance program was agreed to at project
preparation, recognizing the relatively weak local and provincial government capacities. However, this
assistance was not fully mobilized nor used in a timely manner. This situation was further complicated by
the crisis noted above and as a result of increased local autonomy and decentralization, following the
enactment of Law No 22/1999. The very disjointed process of providing information to local governments,
developing implementing regulations for the new law, and initiating implementation of the new law (only in
January 2001) created almost paralyzing uncertainties for both central agencies and local governments
during the 1999-2000 period. In addition, reorganization and reform that took place in central government
agencies during 1999 and 2000 adversely affected the overall project management temporarily (the
Ministry of Public Works, under which the executing agency for the Project was located, was restructured
twice in a two-year period). Delays in the release of annual counterpart funds by the central government
also adversely affected project implementation. Significant delays occurred in 2000 when the counterpart
budget was released only in October that year, leaving only two months to complete the works. The central
government officials in-charge of project management and oversight (Directorate of Implementation for
Eastern Region) were among the most professional and competent persons involved in the project.
However, their major constraint was being unable to elicit a sense of responsibility and stewardship from
the provincial and local governments which had little empathy with the central government staff under the
decentralization process. The Bank had advocated at least one central government staff be assigned for
project oversight to each of the participating provinces. After 2 1/2 years, at the continued insistence of the
Bank, the GOI finally assigned one representative to Makassar (South Sulawesi Province) to perform the
oversight and coordination function with respect to all four provinces participating in the project. Even this
individual assigned by the central government did not stay long as assignments away from Jakarta were felt
unfavorably and, in fact, considered as "punishment." Further, the project did not have a well-developed
sector policy framework especially for the water and sanitation sectors for reference during project
implementation.

Provincial Governments as Coordinating Agencies. Inability of provincial governments to provide overall
coordination and supervision, through the establishment of effective PPMUs, resulted in disorganized
project management and failure to enforce the established IUIDP processes and required procedures.
Provincial governments were intended to play a central role in project coordination and supervision. The
PPMU could have been actively involved in providing policy and overall guidance to the local governments,
particularly in relation to the control of planning and prioritizing, as well as compliance with the project
design and procedures. With the widely scattered project locations and limited role of the central
government in supervising the project as it turned out under decentralization, the provincial governments
were the focus of GOI-Bank attention to assure capacity-building for coordinating and supervising the
project. The development of this capacity was sporadic and slow.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Lack of ownership and interest of the city mayors and head of local governments (walikotas and bupatis),
and continuous changes of the officer-in-charge of project implementation negatively affected project
performance. In addition to irregularities discovered by the fiduciary review and post-review audits, the
combination of the economic, social and political uncertainties and the lack of local leadership and training
for local units raises the question why this project was continued under such adverse circumstances.
Clearly, some dedicated local units attempted to realize the intended benefits of the project, but with the



                                                     - 17 -

lack of fiduciary responsibility displayed by many sub-project managers, the Bank had to declare many
contract packages as misprocurement and initiate debarment sanctions against more than 100 firms and
individuals just in four cities reviewed by the fiduciary review mission. (Several of these proceeding are
still in progress). Annex 13 provides a complete overview of the fiduciary review. In the course of project
implementation, because of improper use of the Bank's procurement guidelines by the implementing
agencies, the Bank had to declare misprocurement on many occasions which represented the highest for a
project in that country. Two all-mayor workshops were organized during the first half of project
implementation to deal with problems in procurement and other matters. These workshops were effective in
raising problems but subsequent actions on resolving them were minimal.

5.4 Costs and financing:

According to available records, the total actual project cost is approximately US$104.1 million as
compared to the estimate in the SAR of US$341.22 million. Thus the actual cost is less than one-third of
the appraisal estimate. The actual total cost includes US$30.59 million equivalent of Indonesian funds; and
expenditures funded from the Bank loan amounted to US$73.47 million. The Bank financing represents
71% of the total project cost. The significant decrease in the project cost was mainly due to depreciation of
the Rupiah. A significant part of the Loan was cancelled two times, when two amendments to the Loan
Agreements (in August 1988 and December 1999) were made; a total of US$81.53 million was cancelled
during the life of the project. The average exchange rate between Rupiah and US$ fluctuated between Rp
2,419 (in April 1997, when the Loan became effective) to Rp 8,260 (during the Mid-term Review in April
1999) and to Rp 8,940 (when the Loan was closed 12/31/02); the exchange rate had even reached once Rp.
14,900 (in June 1998). Thus there was sharp variation in the exchange rate due to currency devaluation
compared to the exchange rate used during SAR preparation (US$ 1 = Rp 2,260).




                                                     - 18 -

Table 2: Loan Fund Structure by Disbursement Category in the Loan Agreement,
              in Subsequent Amendments, and in Actual Disbursement
                                                                      Loan Fund Allocation / Disbursement in US$

                                                Original    Amendment      Amendment         Amendment       Amendment          Actual

Disbursement Category                            Loan         to Loan        to Loan           to Loan         to Loan       Disbursement

                                               Agreement     Agreement     Agreement         Agreement        Agreement    (According to ICS)

                                               15-Jan-97     27-Jan-98      16-Dec-98         13-Mar-00       21-Dec-01

(1) Civil works for Sub-projects financed

   under SLAs

   (a) North Sulawesi                             3,300,000    3,300,000       1,700,000         1,200,000        200,000         162,846.33

   (b) Central Sulawesi                           4,600,000    4,600,000       2,950,000         2,350,000        950,000         845,811.34

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                        5,000,000    5,000,000       3,350,000         2,850,000       1,175,000      1,147,550.38

   (d) South Sulawesi                           13,300,000    13,300,000       8,600,000         7,200,000       2,633,200      2,484,758.30


(2) Other Civil Works:

   (a) North Sulawesi                           11,200,000    10,200,000       7,050,000         3,550,000       8,615,000      8,504,344.31

   (b) Central Sulawesi                           6,300,000    5,300,000       3,150,000         1,650,000       5,226,000      4,123,011.51

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                      11,900,000    10,900,000       7,750,000         4,250,000       7,800,000      6,738,153.90

   (d) South Sulawesi                           44,900,000    39,900,000     23,500,000         14,500,000     25,850,000      19,781,382.05


(3) Good for Sub-Project, including

   specialized vehicles, financed under SLA:

   vehicles, financed under SLA:

   (a) North Sulawesi                              300,000       300,000        150,000           150,000         125,000              177.36

   (b) Central Sulawesi                            400,000       400,000        200,000           200,000         690,000         286,125.75

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                         300,000       300,000        150,000           150,000         220,000          76,343.39

   (d) South Sulawesi                             2,100,000    2,100,000       1,053,200         1,053,200       1,500,000      1,487,984.43


(4) Other Goods, including

   specialized vehicles

   (a) North Sulawesi                             2,500,000    2,500,000       2,350,000         1,550,000        565,000         405,188.83

   (b) Central Sulawesi                           1,700,000    1,700,000       1,500,000         1,200,000        684,000         559,369.00

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                        1,500,000    1,500,000       1,350,000         1,050,000       1,500,000      1,458,016.66

   (d) South Sulawesi                           15,000,000    15,000,000     14,000,000         10,900,000       5,530,000      4,973,533.27


(5) Engineering Services:

   (a) North Sulawesi                             1,400,000    2,760,000       2,760,000         2,760,000       1,960,000      1,578,638.92

   (b) Central Sulawesi                           1,400,000    2,650,000       2,650,000         2,650,000       2,800,000      1,949,446.60

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                        1,400,000    2,650,000       2,650,000         2,650,000       1,925,000      1,156,626.93

   (d) South Sulawesi                             5,600,000    8,240,000       8,240,000         8,240,000       5,600,000      4,679,616.91


(6) Training:

   (a) North Sulawesi                              300,000       300,000        300,000           300,000         700,000         637,638.91

   (b) Central Sulawesi                            300,000       300,000        300,000           300,000         300,000         581,113.23

   (c) South-East Sulawesi                         300,000       300,000        300,000           300,000         400,000         204,528.95

   (d) South Sulawesi                             1,100,000    1,100,000       1,100,000         1,100,000        600,000          64,043.89




                                                             - 19 -

(7) Implementation Support Services              7,500,000     2,500,000   2,500,000    2,500,000    3,850,000     3,067,137.88


(8) Civil Works under Part A.3 of the Project           -     12,000,000   7,450,000    7,450,000    6,384,526     6,519,839.96

                                                                                                                           -

(9) Unallocated                                  11,400,000    5,900,000   5,900,000    5,900,000           -              -


Cancellations:

Cancelled as of September 22, 1998                                            46,800       46,800       46,800       46,800.00

Cancelled as of August 26, 1998                                            42,000,000   42,000,000   42,000,000   42,000,000.00

Cancelled as of December 13, 1999                                                       25,000,000   25,000,000   25,000,000.00

Cancelled as of August 30, 2001                                                                        170,474      170,474.00

Cancelled as of September 4, 2002                                                                                 11,828,448.12

Cancelled as of September 26, 2002                                                                                 1,952,174.88

Cancelled as of September 29, 2003                                                                                  528,874.01

Total Loan Amount                               155,000,000  155,000,000  155,000,000  155,000,000  155,000,000  155,000,000.00


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated unlikely. The accumulated benefits over the life of the completed
sub-projects will, to a large extent, depend on the availability of O&M budgets; but many local
governments have been failing to provide sufficient annual O&M funds particularly to road, drainage, solid
waste and sanitation entities. Further, comparatively more difficult financial situation is facing water
supply and transportation terminal entities. They are not able to comply with loan covenants to cover
operating costs, and achieve internal cash generation adequate to service debt and finance investments. In
the case of water supply, the number of additional piped water connections is far below the SAR target;
and the targeted reduction in unaccounted for water (UfW) is not achieved by most water supply entities.
These problems have led to financial unsustainability of most PDAMs. In the case of the transportation
terminals, in most cases, they were not well located, and/or not fully completed, and their effective use,
therefore, is unlikely. An exception to the above problems is the community-based pilot KIP program in
which there was strong community ownership and involvement and, therefore, sustainability is likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Most project activities are already integrated into the regular operation of the project entities without
special transition arrangements. However, the entities are facing problem, as noted, in getting adequate
O&M funds. Now the challenge rests with local leaders to convince the DPRD (local legislative body) to
allocate adequate budget for O&M during the annual budget process.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during project identification was satisfactory. The project was prepared in
continuation of a series of IUIDPs that received high priority in line with the Government's policy agenda
and the Bank's County CAS for Indonesia. A complete set of IUIDP process and procedures manuals had
been previously agreed between the Bank and GOI. Unfortunately, however, economic and sector work for
the water supply and sanitation sub-sectors was not available. As a result, the project did not have a solid
sector policy framework for water supply and sanitation agreed with GOI for reference during



                                                             - 20 -

implementation.

The Bank's performance during preparation was also satisfactory for the initial 18 towns targeted in the
original project concept (see Annex 8). The GOI-Bank decision to expand the project to 41 local
governments radically changed the nature and quality of preparation activities. No full PJM or other IUIDP
documents were prepared before the loan approval for the 23 additional towns added, but "programmatic"
investment proposals were discussed with each of these additional towns on the assumption that full
preparation would be financed later from the Sul2UDP loan; this was not satisfactorily carried out. The
project preparation process for the additional towns included extensive consultation and reviews with local
governments in the form of several consultant visits to each town and workshops at the provincial level.
However, the resulting preparation was generally unsatisfactory.

The Bank's performance during initial appraisal (of the 18 towns) was satisfactory. The mission was well
staffed with 11 experts in related fields including an anthropologist. During appraisal, particular attention
was given to the requirements for completing preparations for prompt negotiations. These included
agreement of project size and loan amount, PJMs for the initial (18) towns, financial analysis of project
PDAMs, economic analysis of all large sub-projects, etc. The subsequent decision to expand the project
size and complexity increased the risks which were not carefully identified and mitigated, nor safeguard
policies fully addressed in the additional towns. The decision to include the additional towns requested by
GOI to be handled on a programmatic basis with minimum preparation, looks particularly faulty in
retrospect, making the project quality at entry poor. The appraisal mission had expressed serious
reservations about the GOI proposal to expand the project size and complexity in the context of low
capacity of provinces to manage the project. However, the decision by GOI and the regional Bank
management to proceed with the expanded project meant that only about 40% of the project had been
appraised prior to negotiation; this must be regarded as unsatisfactory. Further, it is now clear that the
appraisal mission should have required a strong "readiness" covenant covering completion of the PJMs and
related documentation for the additional towns, or made it a condition of disbursement for the associated
Bank-funded works.

7.2 Supervision:

In spite of intensive efforts, the overall Bank supervision performance proved unsatisfactory because the
Bank strategy of supervising the local supervisors (i.e., PPMUs backstopped by their consultants) in this
complex project did not work well. When the originally conceived strategy did not work effectively for lack
of capable consultants and PPMU staff, and lack of strong GOI and provincial government involvement in
supervision, the Bank tried to intensify its supervision work. However, due to scattered project locations,
the missions consistently had difficulties visiting even a majority of project towns during supervision.
Nevertheless, all of them were visited by at least one mission member during different supervision missions.
Standard regional supervision budgets (even with the allowance for complex projects) allowed supervision
missions to be carried out only twice a year (see Annex 4 for summary of missions and costs). In most
cases, the Bank supervision was carried out primarily at the provincial level, where all local government
representatives attended a reporting and coordination meeting in the provincial capital. Time permitting,
site visits to selected towns and sub-projects were carried out. On several occasions, the mission split its
members and visited towns separately, attempting to optimize available resources, but there were always
more issues and problems than individual team members could address effectively. Inevitably, each mission
left an agenda of tasks to be followed up by the project agencies and consultants, but rarely were the
problems successfully resolved, leaving many issues pending for months.




                                                     - 21 -

In the context of the complexity of Sul2UDP focusing on too many towns with low implementation
capacity, it was found that the Bank supervision was simply not adequate to address the wide range of
problems and issues in 41 implementing locations (more than 150 PIUs). Very substantial support to the
supervision effort was provided from the Jakarta office which was responsible for project supervision, but
this arrangement was often misused by local government officials bypassing what they viewed as
ineffective provincial and GOI support, and coming directly to the WBOJ staff for help and requesting
special visits by them to resolve problems. This proved too much of a burden on local staff.

The serious issues faced in the project regarding project management, procurement, counterpart funds,
accounting and financial management, environmental management, monitoring and evaluation, etc., were
often noted in comprehensive aide-memoires. However, those issues were not always realistically reflected
in PSR ratings except in mid-1999 (following the MTR Mission) and October 2002 (following the
Fiduciary Review).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory for the above reasons.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

As with the Bank's performance noted above, during the initial stages of preparation of UDP for the initial
18 small and medium towns, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. However, GOI's insistence on
expanding the coverage of Sul2UDP to 41 local governments was the single major cause of a nearly
one-year delay in project processing and the problematic start of project implementation. GOI made no
serious attempt to ensure that local government capacities and procedural knowledge (e.g., of procurement)
were ready for implementation, preferring to rely on a large-scale consultant mobilization which was
delayed by local procurement procedures. GOI indicated that in preparing a project with a large number of
towns, a programmatic approach should be applied. However, GOI did little to assure that the
programmatic outlines of the initial investment plans were followed up with professional and realistic
sub-project preparation, other than handing the job to large teams of consultants (mostly local) who were
often incapable of sub-project preparation to Bank-GOI agreed standards. Without the real ownership of
many sub-projects and the lack of community consultation, most project components were prepared as
consultant-driven proposals, influenced by local lobbying pressures, which the Borrower's project
management structure did not subject to appropriate quality control reviews before approval. The overall
Borrower performance in preparation was, therefore, unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Borrower's performance in implementation is also rated unsatisfactory. The Borrower's commitment to
project implementation appeared to be high, as expressed during Bank supervision missions, but seldom
resulted in effective problem-solving actions in response to mission findings. The Borrower's performance
could have significantly improved if: (a) strong commitment of the provincial governments from the four
provinces was demanded and ensured to coordinate and supervise the project; (b) selection of consultants
was promptly completed with careful attention to capability to actually perform the assigned roles; and (c)
timely provision of counterpart funds was assured throughout the life of the project. The promulgated law
on decentralization and local autonomy (Law 22/1999) increased the authority of local governments, but
was not followed with clear, consistent guidelines and regulations for local implementation of the project
with proper GOI oversight.



                                                    - 22 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of more than 150 implementing agencies (PIUs) was highly variable over four provincial
governments and 41 local/municipal governments and their enterprises. The performance of provincial
governments is rated unsatisfactory. The coordinating role of provincial project management units
(PPMUs) could have been improved significantly by assigning committed professional staff and capable
consultants to the units, but this key factor was deficient in most provinces.

The performance of implementing agencies was, with the exception of a few local governments,
unsatisfactory. Most project management units (PMUs), which had primary responsibility for coordinating
sub-projects in their local governments, were not fully functioning. The frequent rotation and the lack of
fiduciary responsibility of most project managers resulted in improper procurement processes, disorganized
filing systems and unsatisfactory financial management. One of the exceptions to the above, as noted
earlier, was Southeast Sulawesi Province.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory for the above reasons.

8. Lessons Learned


A number of noteworthy lessons learned from the Project's integrated approach to urban infrastructure
development of a large number of cities/towns in Sulawesi are described below:

                                                I. THE BANK

Quality at Entry: Following a programmatic approach, the Project was originally appraised to include 18
cities/towns. Later, it was decided by Bank management, rather reluctantly, to include 23 more cities/towns
in the project because of GOI pressure to make the project more comprehensive. These additional
cities/towns were included with the understanding that preparation would be finalized in the first year of
project effectiveness.   It was envisaged that sub-projects for the additional cities/towns would be selected
during the project implementation period with satisfactory financial and economic analyses by the local
governments with the help of consultants. However, the actual selection process was adversely affected by
inadequate preparation, lobbying by local governments and pressures on consultants to manipulate analysis
to justify preselected subprojects. In future programmatic projects, particular attention has to be given to
avoid "scaling up" the original project design when government capacity and commitment are weak to
ensure adequate subproject preparation.

Making Bank Supervision Strategy Effective: The Sul2UDP Project was one of the most intensively
supervised projects in the Bank's urban portfolio. During the project implementation period, every one of
the 41 cities/towns benefiting from the Bank loan was visited at least once by the Bank's team  a
challenging task considering some towns were approximately a two-day trip away from the nearest airport.
The Bank team tried to compensate for the lax supervision by PPMUs and their consultants. The Bank
team was originally supposed to supervise the supervisors, i.e., PPMUs back-stopped by consultants. This
did not prove to be an effective strategy because of the weak staffing of PPMUs and poorly performing
consultants who were largely hired locally. In future projects, project management staffing of at different
levels should be screened and approved by the Bank. Similarly, the consulting firms shortlisted for bidding



                                                     - 23 -

should be screened more closely regarding their competence and previous performance record. In this
context, there seems to be a need also to use fiduciary teams from the Bank, separate from supervision
missions, to conduct in-depth audits of projects perceived to be having serious fiduciary risks. Special
funding could be explored for this purpose from Trust Funds, for example, while budgeting for project
supervision.

More Systematic Follow-Up: Drawing on Sul2UDP experience, to facilitate a more systematic approach
to monitoring follow-up after each supervision mission, every Aide Memoir should have an Issue-Action
Matrix at the end, specifying the persons/entities responsible for taking different actions proposed.
Progress on this action plan needs to be monitored with the help of field offices, and the subsequent
supervision mission needs to review closely and record what actions have been taken and what actions are
pending. This establishes an effective link between missions for follow up. The issues identified and
actions suggested in the matrix need to be fully reflected in the PSR. It has been noticed that the
Issue-Action Matrix is found only in a few Aide-Memoirs.

Early Bank Management Involvement and Prompt Action on Suspected Corruption: As done in the
World Bank Office in Jakarta/Indonesia, a Corruption Allegations Data Base should record all
reported/alleged/ perceived cases of corruption. As it is a sensitive matter for supervision missions to
openly record in Aide Memoirs the corruption cases identified, missions need to be instructed to prepare
separate confidential memos to Bank management on suspected fiduciary problems and collusive practices
and/or complaints received so that the management could respond quickly and firmly to perceived cases of
irregularities, making use of the remedies available to the Bank. In the course of applying the remedies, the
Bank should not hesitate to seek changes in the composition of tender evaluation committees or its key staff
when improper practices are noticed.

Timely Use of Bank Remedies: When the Sulawesi Project experienced serious implementation problems
and the situation did not improve in spite of repeated requests for carrying out actions plans suggested by
supervision missions, the Bank should have used more forcefully the remedies at its disposal. The Bank
should have reduced funding to subprojects of poorly-performing local governments, while increasing
funding to better-performing local governments to finance additional works proposed by them, with due
regard to technical feasibility and financial/economic viability. This system could have provided the right
signal to the local governments to improve performance or face reduced funding. Further, the Bank could
have suspended disbursements to subprojects where the Bank found it necessary to declare
misprocurements more often. The Bank found it delicate to use the remedies when the project was impacted
by the serious national economic and political crisis of 1997-99. However, after the crisis eased, the Bank
could have made more use of the remedies than limiting to declaring only misprocurements. The remedy
was used forcefully only after the Fiduciary Review of 2002 which found widespread irregularities in the
project, with the Bank subsequently stopping the project.

Cultural Factors Need More Attention: Sulawesi's ethnic and religious diversity, wide variance in
city-size, leadership, professional capacity, and parochial attitudes to decentralization (some towns
opposing audit by the central government audit agency, BPKP) adversely affected the project. In this
environment, Jakarta-based GOI staff did not welcome being posted in Sulawesi to improve oversight and
project implementation. According to the original plan for supervising Sul2UDP, one GOI representative
was to be posted at each of the Sulawesi provinces. GOI had accepted this during appraisal as a good idea
but it took nearly 2 1/2 years before the Government could field just one person to deal with all four
provinces (locating him in Makassar with no travel budget). Even this individual did not stay long because
he did not like the assignment in an outlying island. The degree of these cultural factors were



                                                     - 24 -

underestimated during appraisal. The sensitivities associated with the cultural factors made it difficult for
supervision missions to forcefully raise this issue during project implementation. In future projects,
analysis of cultural factors during appraisal need more attention.

                                            II. THE GOVERNMENT

Need for Using Suitable Intermediaries: For this complex Project covering multi-provinces and
multi-cities, there was no intermediary financial institution to channel the Bank loan to numerous
subprojects. In hind sight, it appears that the use of a capable intermediary could have helped overcome
serious fiduciary problems experienced in the Project. In future programmatic projects for integrated urban
development, it seems appropriate to channel Bank funds through a legitimate and effective intermediary on
the lines, for example, of the highly successful Tamilnadu Urban Development Fund in India which is
operated and managed by the private sector.

Achieving Project Objectives Under Decentralization: The project tried to accomplish two broad
objectives: (i) improved governance; and (ii) development of urban infrastructure facilities in 41
cities/towns. The issue of governance proved difficult under the Project at a time when the country decided
to adopt decentralization and the governments at the central, provincial and local levels were aggressively
redefining their responsibilities. New laws were enacted and the role of the Executing Agency, the Central
Ministry of Public Works, was curtailed. Under the decentralized system, the responsibilities of the
Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Home Affairs were not clearly defined; and similarly, there
was confusion on the respective roles of the central, provincial and local governments in project execution,
and this confusion is still continuing in the country as the enabling regulations for decentralization are not
yet complete. Therefore, there is an urgent need to complete the enabling regulations to define clearly the
responsibilities of the central, provincial and local governments in project implementation. Moreover,
partly because of changes in the system of budgeting due to the new decentralization law, there was a
slowdown in the budgeting process, constraining the availability of adequate counterpart funding to the
Project in a timely manner. This aspect needs particular focus in future projects.

Government Responsibility for Supervision: The Government as the Borrower must meet its full
responsibility for the oversight of project implementation without relying heavily on the Bank for
supervision. The relevant line ministry should be asked to assign full-time representatives to the project
management entities and these representatives should supervise the work of PMUs at the provincial and
local government levels. If the government budget is a constraint for financing their travel and board and
lodging costs, for example, funds could be made available from the loan for such purposes in a transparent
manner. Moreover, in future projects, more attention is needed during project preparation on how the
Borrower will supervise all project activities.

Need to Improve the Incentive System: The perverse incentive system prevailing in Indonesia should be
considered as a core problem adversely affecting portfolio performance. Studies by donors and NGOs
show that government officials seem to derive much of their income from unofficial "discretionary
allowances" by focusing on contracting and disbursement, not on getting "value for money." Findings of
the Bank Fiduciary Review of the Project confirmed suspicions that such a system was functioning in
Sulawesi. The current system encourages dishonest behavior as it offers few incentives to promote honest
behavior. Therefore, there is need to develop a system of positive incentives to promote efficient
performance. Good performers could be given special annual bonuses by way of rewards for reducing
costs, achieving better efficiency and faster project completion, and for better operation and maintenance.
In this context, as the low civil service pay scale is a countrywide problem for attracting capable staff,
consideration needs to be given to provide salary supplements (e.g., bonus payments for satisfactory project


                                                      - 25 -

implementation performance) to the PMU staff.

Priority for Training Program: Under the Project, even though significant training was programmed in
the project design, it was not very effective for lack of good trainers. Difficulty in getting good training
experts is a generic problem. Further, there was late delivery of the training program which was offered
mainly in 2000 and 2001 despite the project implementation plan requiring that key staff training be
scheduled in the first year (1997/98) of the Project. However, due to slow contract award and consultant
mobilization, training was not provided in a timely manner. Further, it was noticed that there was a weak
understanding of the concept and methods of economic evaluation in contrast to those of financial
evaluation. Some officials considered economic justification for subprojects as another bureaucratic
requirement of the Bank. This mind-set should change. In future projects, economic analysis of projects
deserve more attention in the training program. There should be adequate training of provincial and local
government staff in economic analysis. This would help prevent the current practice of justifying
sub-projects based on which powerful person, group or entity is lobbying for them.

Closer Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): There is need for provincial and local government PMUs to
pay more attention to the use of M&E as an effective tool for monitoring project progress against agreed
performance indicators to evaluate not only the physical progress but also the development impact. In this
context, during project preparation, considerable efforts were made to develop performance indicators to
monitor progress. However, since an important component of the project, governance improvement, is not
easy to quantify, it was felt that the performance indicators for it would evolve and be refined during
project implementation. This approach did not work effectively. There was inadequate efforts to develop
performance indicators for governance improvement to monitor progress. In future programmatic projects
with major governance components, it seems necessary to develop national indicators for governance
improvement and incorporate them in individual projects.

Screening and Evaluation of Consultants: More care is needed by PPMUs to check the background and
previous work experience of consulting firms, both local and international. In countries like Indonesia
where the local consultant service industry in particular is opaque, poorly formed and developed, more
attention is needed for adequate review and screening of local firms and individuals. Therefore, GOI need
to ensure that adequate checks have been made by PPMUs/PMUs before preparing the shortlists of bidders
and requesting "no objection" by the Bank. Further, a systematic consultant/contractor evaluation process
has to be followed in all donor-financed projects and a register needs to be maintained by PPMUs of firms
which have performed satisfactorily and which have not. An annual evaluation of those firms needs to be
carried out by PPMUs and these evaluation reports should be made available to the central government to
prepare a national list. In this context, GOI has to send a clear message to the consultant service industry
by stating in the bidding documents that consulting firms which do not perform satisfactorily and/or which
indulge in improper practices will not be considered for bidding in future projects.

Lack of Attention to Bank-Recommended Tools: The focus of the borrower/beneficiaries tended to be
on developing physical facilities, not on the critical elements necessary to realize development objectives.
Local governments and PMUs did not use the Bank-recommended tools such as the preparation and regular
updating of the Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP) and the use of the Performance-Oriented
Maintenance Management Systems (POMMS), saying that they were too complex for Sulawesi towns.
They also did not pay adequate attention to using Local Institutional Development Action Plans (LIDAPs)
to achieve better financial, municipal and environmental management. In future projects, the Bank should
ensure that the above-mentioned tools are used effectively by beneficiaries with the help of competent
consultants to ensure satisfactory outcome.



                                                      - 26 -

Ensuring Sustainability: Investments made under the Project face uncertain sustainability. Lack of
attention to operation and maintenance (O&M) of completed projects is a generic problem in Indonesia, and
Sul2UDP is no exception. As a result, sustainability of the Project is rated as unlikely. Under the
decentralized system, the local governments should be paying more attention to the necessary
post-construction O&M budgets. To ensure this, it seems advisable to involve the civic society (including
local NGOs) in monitoring the operation and maintenance of projects and bring pressure on the local
governments to ensure adequate funding for O&M services.

                                       III. BANK AND GOVERNMENT

Strengthening Financial Management Oversight: Where systemic delays in submitting annual audit
reports are experienced, the situation has to be rectified by requesting the Borrower to use independent
private auditors to prepare the accounts for finalization by national audit organizations (e.g. such as BPKP
in Indonesia), thus meeting the government procedure for audit while, at the same time, expediting the
preparation and submission of audit reports. In this context, GOI and provincial governments should define
more stringent mechanisms to ensure that audit results are put to use and that loan covenants are met.
Further, ways have to be found to ensure proper timely audits are done for Statement of Expenses (SOE)
and Special Accounts (SAs) to prevent leakages. Moreover, the Bank's regional and sector level fiduciary
specialists should be involved early on in the preparation of Financial Management Action Plans (FMAPs)
to resolve accounting and financial management issues.

Consultant Selection and Professional Management: Consultants require professional management and
a mutually respectful work environment. Several internationally credible firms withdrew from bidding
when they realized the work environment under the project is difficult. The consultants hired were of
uneven quality and their work deteriorated as they were paid late, ordered around irrespective of their work
plans and resources provided, and often treated as 'pembantu' (servants) by managing government agencies,
rather than as professional service providers, and there was no effective coordination and management of
their work. The Bank team highlighted the issues during supervision missions but the situation did not
improve during project implementation. The Bank could have insisted on acceptable key consultant
contracts as a condition of loan effectiveness, and the Government could have been more vigilant in closing
poorly performing contracts and insisting on improved consulting services. Further, during appraisal, there
could have been clearer understanding and agreement with the Borrower on consultant service norms,
management structure, performance indicators, and contract packaging.

Strengthen Procurement System: The Sulawesi Project had a good model for procurement. There were
procurement staff in each provincial PPMU to coordinate and finalize preparation of annual procurement
plans by local governments and to monitor the procurement process, including the shortlisting, bidding and
selection of consultants and contractors. However, the model did not work well in practice because the
local governments wanted most contracts for local firms and bidding was often limited to local firms. The
local consultant/contractors associations lobbied and influenced the procurement process. As a result,
serious problems were encountered during post-reviews by Bank supervision missions. Further, in many
cases, the Bank had to declare misprocurement when contract award decisions were taken by PMUs in
violation of the Banks procurement guidelines. In future projects, the Bank and the Government have to
ensure that provincial PPMUs and local PMUs : (i) pay adequate attention to proper book-keeping and
filing; (ii) resort to wider competitive bidding, without limiting bidding to local firms, and ensure
competition and transparency; (iii) face suspension of disbursement when adequate documentation is not
maintained and readily provided to facilitate post-reviews; (iv) prepare annual procurement plans with the
help of consultants; (v) not break large procurement packages into smaller ones as it leads to complications
during implementation.


                                                      - 27 -

Technical Audits and Completion Certification: Following up on the Bank requirement, the Borrower
should ensure that timely technical audits are carried out by local PMUs using their consultants to verify
whether civil work contracts are carried out according to specifications and whether the quality of work is
acceptable. In this context, the Bank could require these technical audit reports be certified by a line
ministry representative (assigned to the PPMU concerned). The Bank could also suggest the use of
established local NGOs to witness these audits.

                                               IV. CIVIL SOCIETY

Community Participation:       Even though community participation was stated as a process objective, it
was not seriously followed in project planning except in a successful set of subprojects under the poor
neighborhood improvement program (KIP) which was later modified to include an emergency refugee
rehabilitation program as well. As a result, some subprojects developed by the Borrower without
community involvement (with government resources as well as Bank loan funds) were opposed by the civil
society. In this environment, community-based sub-projects fared better, but many sub-projects which
were not based on community participation, performed poorly. This underscores the need for community
participation in the design of projects. In this context, it is necessary to make communities aware of the
project scope and objectives through an active socialization process based on meetings, workshops and
focus group discussions using local facilitators when needed. An important part of the socialization
process should be to let people know where to go if they are not satisfied with the project's outcome. Thus
the project preparation period should include the project socialization process as well. This requires more
active focus on the public information function by making, if necessary, translations of relevant Bank
documents for local use.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are attached in Annex 14.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of urban households in four                                       In view of physical achievement, a large
provinces of Sulawesi receiving improved                                    number of urban infrastructures have been
levels of urban services                                                    completed, a few of them were effectively
                                                                            used, but the vast majority, particularly on
                                                                            water supply and sanitation were not
                                                                            effectively utilized for various reasons (see
                                                                            Additional Annex 8).
                                                                            Local and provincial governments deemed
                                                                            the "leadership arrangement" approach to be
                                                                            unworkable in practice - see note below.
Impact on Poverty Alleviation:
2. Number of urban poor community                                           KIP component (and also 'padat karya'
benefiting from the provision of facilities                                 program) was assumed to have positive
provided to reduce poverty                                                  impact in reducing poverty, in particular when
                                                                            the Community-based (CBD) KIP was
                                                                            assured
Impact on Urban Environment:
3. Number of households with access to                                      Despite efforts on urban environment, the
waste facilities, including those using TPS                                 impact on improving the environment is
4. Level of pollution due to improved urban                                 minimal
environment condition
5. Level of market cleanliness due to
improved urban environment condition
Impact on Sustainable Development:
6. The percentage of employees trained                                      The training program has been successfully
7. The percentage of urban households                                       accomplished, and a large number of
willing to pay for the services provided, based                             employees trained, but the impact on
on Real Demand Survey                                                       sustainability is not measured.
8. The improved financial performance of                                    With the absence of sufficient budget for
local government                                                            O&M of completed facilities, and
9. The level of private sector involvement in                               nonachievement of some targets,
service provision                                                           sustainability of development is unlikely.

Social Impact:
10. Number of households properly resettled                                 No social impact study was carried out.
11. Level of community participation in                                     Therefore, the impact on social aspects is not
service provision                                                           known. Only on CBD in particular, the level
                                                                            of community participation is considered
                                                                            sufficient.


The SAR envisaged that by defining the roles and responsibilities of all parties, and procedures for project
implementation, under a "Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM)", agreed and signed
by all parties, leadership by local governments will be assured. With a large number of local governments
participating in the project, this arrangement of local government leadership was expected to ensure smooth
implementation. These arrangements have never been previously attempted, except for large metropolitan
cities. As a result, many local governments were not in a position to be ready to take full responsibility to
implement the project properly. The situation worsened when Law No. 22/1999 on decentralization and
local autonomy was enacted, when the role of central government was reduced and, at the same time, local
governments were trying to take full control of the budget, that led to various cases of funds misuse.

The performance of local governments in the implementation of the program was to be measured through
the attainment of annual priority targets which were to be stated in the Annual Program Implementation
Plan (APIP) for each local government and to be evaluated during the APIP preparation for the following
year. In reality, this planned implementation monitoring system turned out to be somewhat impractical for
several reasons. Only during the initial years of project implementation, APIP was prepared and evaluated,



                                                         - 29 -

but not in the rest of the implementation period. The main reason is that the availability of local funds for
physical implementation was generally very much delayed. For FY2000, the funds were only released in
October of that year. The availability of SLA funds often encountered even greater delays. The SLA for
the water supply component in North Sulawesi Province was not used at all. As a consequence, physical
implementation was not even started, let alone showing any tangible results, at the time of APIP
preparation for the following year.

Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Roads
    Indicator: Km built and rehabilitated
    Targeted: 815 km                                                      964.7 km
Drainage
    Indicator: Km built and rehabilitated
    Targeted: 215,283 m of primary drain                                  167,268 m of primary drain
               676,196 m of secondary                                     392,338 m of secondary drain
                  drain
               25,922 ha of flood protection                              25,545 ha of flood protection
Solid Waste
    Indicator: Waste (volume) properly
       disposed at final disposal site (TPA)
    Targeted: 224 containers                                              554 containers
                95 waste truck                                            241 waste truck
                35 landfills (TPA)                                        35 landfills (TPA)
                760,000 beneficiaries                                     2,195,000 beneficiaries
Water Supply
    Indicator: # of household connections
    Targeted: 120,205 connections                                         42,785 connections
                262 public hydrants                                       161 public hydrants
                19 reservoirs                                             27 reservoirs
                23 WTPs                                                   27 WTPs
                409,500 beneficiaries                                     287,000 beneficiaries
Sanitation
    Indicator: Sludge (volume) properly
        treated
    Targeted: 28 sewage plants                                            30 sewage plants
                155 communal septic tanks                                 171 communal septic tanks
                827,750 beneficiaries                                     820,000 beneficiaries
KIP/MIIP
    Indicator: Area improved
    Targeted: 2,205 ha slum improvement                                   2,039 ha slum improvement
               142,868 m access road                                      109,371 m access road
               225,000 beneficiaries                                      101,950 beneficiaries
Terminal
    Indicator: # of terminals built
    Targeted: 25 units                                                    17 units




1End of project




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                         Estimate           Estimates           Appraisal
                Component                                US$ million        US$ million
KIP/MIIP/Improvements (Base Costs)                                 16.9               4.25             25.16
Water Supply                                                      37.86              14.68             38.77
Sanitation                                                         7.31               0.82             11.28
Solidwaste                                                        23.46               5.72             24.40
Town Drainage                                                     50.33              17.44             34.66
Terminals                                                          8.03               1.62             20.12
Town Roads                                                         55.5              15.69             28.26
Civil Works under Part A3 (1)                                         0               6.52
Works under ex-counterpart funds (GOI funds)(2)                                     12.98
Engineering Services                                               8.95               9.52            106.39
Training                                                           1.83               1.49             81.23
Implementation Support                                             8.56               2.79             32.60
Taxes & Overhead                                                  19.77               1.99             10.08
 Physical Contingencies                                           19.94
 Price Contingencies                                              22.67
Land Acquisition                                                   7.59               0.33               4.32
Studies & AMDAL                                                    2.93               0.00               0.00
Overheads                                                             0               0.00
Incremental O&M                                                   49.59               8.22             16.58
Total Baseline Cost                                              341.22           104.06               30.50
 Physical Contingencies                                           19.94               0.00               0.00
 Price Contingencies                                              22.67               0.00               0.00
                       Total Project Costs                       341.22            104.06              30.50
                 Total Financing Required                        341.22            104.06              30.50

(1) Additional "Padat Karya" Program
(2) GOI's funds available for counterpart budget, but used to finance GOI's own projects (under PJM)
    due to loan cut.




                                                             - 31 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               0.00              183.30              9.80             19.30             212.40
                                      (0.00)             (103.80)           (5.50)            (0.00)           (109.30)
2. Goods                              11.80               11.60              3.10              1.40             27.90
                                     (11.80)             (11.60)            (3.00)            (0.00)            (26.40)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00              21.20             0.00             21.20
(includes engineering                 (0.00)              (0.00)            (19.30)           (0.00)            (19.30)
services, training,
implementation support
4. Taxes & Duties                      0.00                0.00              0.00             10.60             10.60
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00              0.00             19.70             19.70
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00              0.00             49.60             49.60
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
   Total                              11.80              194.90              34.10            100.60            341.40
                                     (11.80)             (115.40)           (27.80)           (0.00)           (155.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               0.00               52.62              6.41             0.00              59.03
                                      (0.00)             (42.22)            (6.41)           (0.00)           (48.63)
2. Goods                               0.00               11.45              0.00             0.74              12.19
                                      (0.18)             (11.09)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (11.27)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              13.80             0.00              13.80
(includes engineering                 (0.00)              (0.00)           (13.57)           (0.00)           (13.57)
services, training,
implementation support
4. Taxes & Duties                      0.00               0.00               0.00             1.99              1.99
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.33              0.33
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00            17.26              17.26
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               64.07             20.21            20.32             104.60
                                      (0.18)             (53.31)           (19.98)           (0.00)           (73.47)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
   project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)



                                                       - 32 -

  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Financing Plan by Source of Financing (US$ million)



Financier                       Appraisal Estimate             Actual Estimate       Percentage of Appraisal
Central Government                      41.8                         12.16                   29%
Provincial Governments                  17.2                         1.37                     8%
Local Governments                      102.6                         17.78                   15%
PDAMs                                   24.6                         1.27                     5%
IBRD                                   155.0                         73.47                   47%
Totals                                 341.2                        104.06                   30%




                                                      - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis of the urban road and drainage and flood control sub-projects considered only
directly quantifiable costs and benefits. As in the SAR, savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) comprised
the economic benefits of the urban road sub-projects selected for the ERR (economic rate of return)
re-estimation. Savings in travel time was also evaluated as an added benefit. For the drainage and flood
control sub-projects, the main economic benefit considered was the increase in land value in directly
affected areas.

Costs and benefits were updated to 2002 prices. Financial costs were converted to economic costs by
removing taxes and duties, and applying appropriate conversion factors. As in the SAR, a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.90 was applied to the drainage component.

VOC and travel time savings of the urban road sub-projects were calculated based on monitoring data of
traffic count, VOC with and without project, and travel time saved. Data were collected by the BME
Consultant, with updates by the ICR Consultant. Land value increases resulting from the drainage and
flood control sub-projects and estimates of the actual impacted area were used as bases for the calculation
of the annual economic benefits generated by each sub-project.

All net economic benefit streams of the urban road and drainage and flood control sub-projects were
discounted at their assumed economic life, following the SAR approach. In the case of drainage and flood
control sub-projects, the economic life was assumed as five years.

A comparison of ERR and FRR based on SAR targets and actual sub-project performance is given in
Tables 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 for urban roads, drainage and flood control and water supply, respectively. Tables
2.1 to 2.6 present the results of financial operations of the selected water supply sub-projects.

      List of Large Contract Packages
      City            Component        Project                   Contract Value
                                                                 US$ Eqv.
      North Sulawesi
      Bitung          Water Supply     WTP, 30 l/s                     184,613
      Gorontalo       Water Supply     Genset, pumps                   226,661
      Central Sulawesi
      Palu            Road             New construction                308,718
      Palu            Road             Improvement                     221,447
      Toli Toli       Water Supply     WTP, 50 l/s                     277,240
      Toli Toli       Water Supply     Equipment                       175,968
      Toli Toli       Road             Improvement                     174,493
      Poso            Water Supply     Optimizing assets               340,342
      Poso            Water Supply     WTP, 30 l/s                     695,879




                                                       - 34 -

South Sulawesi
Pinrang          Terminal         New construction              245,725
Barru            Road             Improvement                   197,262
Barru            Road             Improvement                   254,885
Sidrap           Road             Improvement                   183,746
Makassar         Road             Improvement                   177,242
Makassar         Drainage         Rehabilitation                266,078
Makassar         Solidwaste       Equipment                     393,702
Makassar         Road             Improvement                   195,182
Makassar         Road             Improvement                   261,597
Makassar         Road             Improvement                   384,031
Makassar         Road             Improvement                   591,233
Gowa             Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    181,563
Gowa             Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    175,821
Gowa             KIP/MIIP         Market                        128,489
Gowa             Road             Improvement                   178,547
Maros            Water Supply     WTP, 50 l/s                   281,766
Maros            Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    199,926
Pangkep          Road             Improvement                   213,806
Sinjai           Road             Improvement                   179,046
Bone             Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    362,598
Soppeng          KIP/MIIP         Market                        216,378
Soppeng          Road             Improvement                   206,061
Wajo             Water Supply     WTP, 20 l/s                   172,943
Wajo             Road             Improvement                   176,651
Southeast Sulawesi
Kendari          Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    178,063
Kendari          Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    263,595
Unaaha           Water Supply     Pipe supply & installation    363,261
Bau Bau          KIP/MIIP         Market                        201,823

Selected for Economic Costs and Benefits Analysis




                                                  - 35 -

Table 1.1 Comparative EIRR: SAR vs. Actual - Urban Roads

                                               SAR                                     Actual

       Sector/Subproject\      EIRR with Time       EIRR w/o Time   EIRR with Time  EIRR w/o Time
                                    Savings            Savings         Savings         Savings     Investment Cost
                                                                                                      (Rp Mill)

Kota Palu, SulTengah
 1. Jl Palu-Pantoloan               > 12%                                     29.8%          29.3%          3,101
Kota Kendari, SulTenggrara
 2. Jl SPK-Tapak Kuda               > 12%                                     34.7%          33.6%          1,441
Kota Gorontalo, SulUtara
 3. Jl Sudirman                     > 12%                                     34.0%          33.6%             574
Kota Tondano, SulUtara
 4. Jl Koya Roong                   > 12%                                     40.0%          39.6%             383
Kota Baeneng, SulSelatan
 5. Jl Monginsidi I                 > 12%                                     38.9%          38.0%              64


                                                                                         Total Cost         5,563


Table 1.2 Comparative EIRR: SAR vs. Actual - Drainage and Flood Control

                                               SAR                                     Actual

       Sector/Subproject\
                                     EIRR          Increase in Land     EIRR       Increase in LandInvestment Cost
                                                       Values                          Values         (Rp Mill)

Kota Luwuk, SulTengah
 1. Jl Yos Sudarso                  > 12%             10 - 100%               38.6%          33.3%         111.37
Kota Manado, SulUtara
 2. Perkamil-M Denta                > 12%             10 - 100%             266.1%           66.7%         758.40
Kota Kendari, SulTenggara
 3. Jl Mandonga                     > 12%             10 - 100%               25.0%          25.0%         431.52


                                                                                         Total Cost      1,301.28




                                                 - 36 -

Table 2.1 PDAM Bantaeng Financial & Operational Indicators, Actual - 1997-2002

                   Particulars                  1997       1998        1999     2000    2001    2002
Total Connections                                 3,908      4,301       4,641   4,957   5,120   5,385
New Connections                                     n.a       393         340     316     163      265
Water Sold, m3 mill                               0.818      0.757       0.834   0.969   1.028   1.081
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3                     17          15         15      16      17       17
Unaccounted-for-water                               31%        20%         20%     20%     19%     19%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                              401        463         570     574     795      833
Water Revenues, Rp mill                             328        351         475     556     817     901
Net Profit (Loss), Rp mill                        (116)       (150)       (169)   (164)   (217)    n.a
Operating Ratio, %                               138%       140%         128%    134%    124%    115%
Debt Service Ratio                                  n.a        n.a         n.a     n.a     n.a     n.a
Table 2.2 PDAM Kendari Financial & Operational Indicators, Actual - 1997-2002

                   Particulars                  1997       1998        1999     2000    2001    2002
Actual
Total Connections                                 9,420     10,894      12,048  12,890  14,017  14,346
New Connections                                    n.a.      1,474       1,154    842    1,127     329
Water Sold, m3 mill                               2,229      2,966       3,268   3,488   3,474   3,451
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3                      20         23          23      23      21      20
Unaccounted-for-water                              50%        44%         45%     44%     42%     35%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                               832        702       1,019   1,130   1,218   1,938
Water Revenues, Rp mill                           1,854      2,081       3,331   3,941   4,230   6,689
Net Profit (Loss), Rp mill                         268        328         199     (530)   (175)    n.a
Operating Ratio, %                                 89%        88%         97%    101%    110%     82%
Debt Service Ratio                                 n.a.       n.a.        n.a.    n.a.    2.27     n.a
Table 2.3 PDAM Maros Financial & Operational Indicators, Actual - 1997-2002

                   Particulars                  1997       1998        1999     2000    2001    2002
Total Connections                                 2,483      2,830       3,180   3,835   3,929   4,081
New Connections                                     n.a       347         350     655      94      152
Water Sold, m3 mill                                 642        656         717     731     780     781
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3                      22         19          19      16      17      16
Unaccounted-for-water, %                           40%        36%         38%     43%     43%     40%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                               524        559         638     831     957   1,337
Water Revenues, Rp mill                             337        367         457     607     746   1,044
Net Profit (Loss), Rp mill                        (329)       (342)       (302)   (955)    n.a     n.a
Operating Ratio, %                               175%       171%         153%    208%    215%    205%
Debt Service Ratio                                  n.a        n.a         n.a    1.06     n.a     n.a




                                                - 37 -

Table 2.4 PDAM Minahasa Financial & Operational Indicators, Actual - 1997-2002

                   Particulars                 1997        1998         1999     2000    2001    2002
Total Connections                              22,410      23,018       23,905   23,114  22,322  22,524
New Connections                                     n.a        608         887     (792)   (792)   202
Water Sold, m3 mill                              3,257       3,327       3,771    3,791   3,812   4,106
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3                     12          12          13       14      14      15
Unaccounted-for-water, %                          56%         50%         50%      52%     53%     54%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                              755         731       1,091    1,504   1,585   1,585
Water Revenues, Rp mill                          2,458       2,431       4,116    5,701   6,041   6,508
Net Profit (Loss), Rp mill                        (646)       (866)       (755)    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Operating Ratio, %                               125%       131%         116%     114%    116%    114%
Debt Service Ratio                                1.46         n.a.        n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Table 2.5 PDAM Tana Toraja Financial & Operational Indicators, Actual - 1997-2002

                   Particulars                 1997        1998         1999     2000    2001    2002
Total Connections                                5,508       6,379       7,382    7,916   8,015   8,253
New Connections                                     n.a        871       1,003     534      99     238
Water Sold, m3 mill                              1,563       1,613       1,591    1,828   1,860   2,015
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3                     24          21          18       19      19      20
Unaccounted-for-water, %                          44%         22%         37%      34%     34%     33%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                              541         796         891      887     937   1,557
Water Revenues, Rp mill                            845       1,285       1,417    1,621   1,743   3,136
Net Profit (Loss), Rp mill                       1,000       1,497       1,848    2,274   2,393   1,794
Operating Ratio, %                               161%       131%         143%     146%    135%      n.a
Debt Service Ratio                                  n.a        n.a         n.a      n.a     n.a     n.a




                                               - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              December 1994               5    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                               SOLID WASTE SPECIALIST
                                               (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                               ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                                               OFFICER (1)
              March 1995                  1    ENVIRONMENTAL
                                               ENGINEER (1)
              Pre-appraisal May           8    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
              1995                             SOLID WASTE SPECIALIST
                                               (1) FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                               (2); COUNSEL (1);
                                               ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                               (1); RESETTLEMENT EXPERT
                                               (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                11     MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                               (2); SOLID WASTE
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                               (2); ENVIRONMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                               (1); SOCIOLOGISTS (2);
                                               ECONOMIST (1);
                                               ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
              Appraisal                   2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
              Completion:                      SOLID WASTE SPECIALIST
              January 1996                     (1)
              Pre-negotiations:           6    DIVISION CHIEF (1);
              April 1996                       FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                               MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                               SOLID WASTE SPECIALIST
                                               (1); COUNSEL (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              05/05/1997                  4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (2);          S               S
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1); RESETTLEMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              10/21/1997                  7    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (2);          S               S
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                                - 39 -

                     (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                     (2); RESETTLEMENT
                     SPECIALIST (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL
                     SPECIALIST (1)
04/19/1998         7 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (2);    S     S
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1); RESETTLEMENT
                     SPECIALIST (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER
                     (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                     (1)
10/25/1998         6 ENVIRONMENTAL ENG. (1);    S     S
                     MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
                     (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                     (1); RESETTLEMENT (1)
04/28/1999         5 ENVIRONMENTAL              U     U
MID-TERM             ENGINEER (1); PR.
REVIEW, PART I       ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL
                     SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                     ACQUISITION/RESETTLEME
                     NT SPECIALIST (1)
07/22/1999         6 ENVIRONMENTAL              S     U
MID-TERM             ENGINEER (1); PR.
REVIEW, PART II      ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                     (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                     (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                     SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                     ACQUISITION SPECIALIST
                     (1)
10/28/1999         5 ENVIRONMENTAL              S     U
                     ENGINEER (1); PR.
                     ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     PROJ. MGMT. REVIEW (1)
08/23/2000         5 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);     S     S
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST
                     (2)
07/17/2001         5 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);     S     S
                     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                     ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST
                     (2)
01/16/2002         2 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);     HU    U



                     - 40 -

                                                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                (1)
               10/25/2002                   4   SANITARY ENGINEER (1);                 HU           HU
                                                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                                                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                (1)

 ICR
               03/21/2003                  4     SANITARY ENGINEER                      U           U
                                                 (1); FINANCIAL
                                                 ANALYST (1);
                                                 ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                 SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                                                 MANAGEMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 40.3                           170.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      91.3                           288.7
  Supervision                               280.2                           645.6
  ICR                                        24.0                            54.0
  Total                                     431.8                        1,124.3
Notes: Costs incurred up to FY99 were increased 15% to take into account the new accounting system
introduced in FY00. The summary does not include the staff inputs or costs for the Fiduciary Review
conducted by INTIU and COSU staff from late 2001 through March 2002 and subsequent reporting.




                                                 - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Project Completion Report (Draft), Project Implementation Coordination Office (PCO), 2002
 2. Evaluasi Hasil Pelaksanaan Proyek, Project Implementation Support (PIS), 2001
 3. Monthly Report, PCO, September - October 2002
 4. Provincial PCR, PPIS South Sulawesi, 2001
 5. Provincial PCR, PPIS North Sulawesi, 2001
 6. Provincial PCR, Southeast Sulawesi, 2001
 7. Provincial PCR, PPIS Central Sulawesi, 2001
 8. Aide-Memoire, First Supervision Mission, 1996
 9. Aide-Memoire, Mid-term Review Mission, 1999
10. Status of PDAM Compliance, Draft Report, PCO, 2001
11. Implementation Completion Report, Second East Java Urban Development Project (Report No.
    24038-IND), June 2002.
12. Report on the visit of PCO Quality Control Team in South East Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi, June
    2001
13. Report on the visit of PCO Quality Control Team in North Sulawesi, July 2001
14. Report on the visit of PCO Quality Control Team in South Sulawesi, September 2001
15. Quarterly Progress Report, PPMU, South Sulawesi, March and June 2001
16. Provincial Project Completion Report, South Sulawesi Province, First Draft, December 2001, Revised
    January 2003. (This report was prepared by an expert of the PPIS Sulsel Team but was never
    formally submitted to the Provincial Government of South Sulawesi, although its key findings and
    recommendations were discussed informally with the provincial government. The views expressed in
    the draft are, therefore, the views of the expert and not necessarily those of the provincial government.)




                                                      - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Participating Cities

Province                                          Population                  Level of
City (Kabupaten)                    SAR          End of Project  % increase  Preparation    Sub Sectors
                                   (1996)           (2002)       1996-2002   Full/Partial    Covered
South Sulawesi                       2,063,949       2,520,571
1. Sungguminasa (Gowa)                  48,691           54,718    12.4%          F        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
2. Pinrang (3)                          64,127           55,000   -14.2%          F             All
3. Sengkang (Wajo)                      33,672           50,850    51.0%          F             All
4. Rantepao (Tana Toraja) (1)           14,502           86,350   495.4%          F        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
5. Makale (Tana Toraja) (1)             16,561                                    F             All
6. Majene (2)                           28,241           32,200    14.0%          F        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
7. Pangkajene (Sidrap)                  26,446           38,745    46.5%          F        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
8. Bantaeng (2)                         38,463           39,189     1.9%          P             All
9. Barru                                22,700           40,000    76.2%          P             All
10. Benteng (Selayar)                   14,600           16,746    14.7%          P        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
11. Bontosunggu (Jeneponto)             34,000           40,133    18.0%          P             All
12. Bulukumba                           35,300           38,859    10.1%          P             All
13. Enrekang                            14,000           32,700   133.6%          P        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
14. Mamuju                              17,600           22,750    29.3%          P             All
15. Maros                               48,500           50,300     3.7%          P        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
16. Pangkep                             26,500           32,949    24.3%          P             All
17. Polewali (Polmas)                   27,300           32,500    19.0%          P             All
18. Sinjai                              27,700           33,350    20.4%          P        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
19. Takalar (2)                         16,000           17,500     9.4%          P        W,DR,SW,S,K,M
20. Watansoppeng (Soppeng)              27,148           34,750    28.0%          P             All
21. Palopo (Luwu)                       68,900          100,300    45.6%        P(*)            All
22. Watampone (Bone)                    91,500          101,300    10.7%        P(*)       W,DR,SW,S,K,M
23. Pare Pare (2)                      103,038          108,132     4.9%        P(*)            All
24. Ujungpandang                     1,218,460       1,461,250     19.9%        P(*)       DR,SW,S,K,M
Central Sulawesi                       345,957          437,187
25. Luwuk (Banggai)                     40,135           50,032    24.7%          F             All
26. Donggala                            17,545           32,325    84.2%          F          DR,S,K,M
27. Toli Toli (Buol)                    63,577           66,528     4.6%          F             All
28. Poso                                37,700           48,631    29.0%          P         DR,T,S,K,M
29. Palu                               187,000          239,671    28.2%        P(*)       DR,T,SW,S,K,M
South East Sulawesi                    282,625          405,893
30. Bau Bau (Buton)                     50,585           65,620    29.7%          F             All
31. Kolaka                              31,224           48,170    54.3%          F             All
32. Raha (Muna)                         34,590           44,058    27.4%          F             All
33. Unaaha (Kendari)                    17,226           43,315   151.5%          F             All
34. Kendari                            149,000          204,730    37.4%        P(*)            All




                                            - 45 -

North Sulawesi                                            738,818       967,865
35. Tondano (Minahasa)                                    55,925          68,111        21.8%               F       All
36. Kotamobagu (Bolmong)                                  78,168          90,705        16.0%               F       All
37. Tahuna (Satal)                                        22,407          29,873        33.3%               F       All
38. Limboto (Gorontalo)                                   23,755          54,499       129.4%               F       All
39. Bitung                                                78,853        143,016         81.4%               P(*)    All
40. Gorontalo                                             120,810       136,808         13.2%               P(*)    All
41. Manado                                                358,900       444,853         23.9%               P(*)    All
TOTAL                                                3,431,349       4,331,516
Legend:
F: Original 18 cities with full preparation
P: Additional cities with partial preparation
P(*): cities included in the Sulawesi-Irian Jaya UDP
W: Water; D: Drainage; R: Road; T:Terminal; SW: Solidwaste; S:Sanitation; K:KIP; M:MIIP; All: All SubSectors
(1) For 2002, this figure is for both towns of Makale and Rantepao
(2) The figure for 1996 was not as stated in the SAR
(3) Pinrang has lesser population in 2002




                                                               - 46 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Organization Structure



                                                     BAPPENAS                                                         MPW
                         MOHA                          National                       MOF                      (now Kimpraswil)
                                                  Planning Board                                                DGCK/DGURD




                       Governor
                       Governor


                                                                                     Project Officer (only       Project Officer
                                                                                appointed after Mid-term
                                                                               review), based in the field
                                                                                                                                            PCO &PIS
                                                                                                                                         Advisory Cons.
   Setwilda            Provincial           Bappeda
     Prov.               Public              Planning                                                Core team of PCO and PIS is based in Jakarta, with some
                                                                                                     staff based in the field (Makassar)
   Secretary             Works                Board
                         PPMU




                               There is a PPMU in each Province,
     PPIS                      assisted by PPIS Team
     DED
  Consultant



  There is one PPIS Team in each Province and 12 DED
  Teams in four provinces, consisting of 6 Teams in South
  Sulawesi (one for road and 5 non-road components); and 2              Mayor/Head of LGs
                                                                         Mayor/Head of LG
  Teams each in other provinces (for road and non-road                   (Kota/Kabupaten)
  components respectively)                                                 (Kota/Kabupaten)                   City/LG Cooordination Team




                                                           Secretary             Public             Bappeda
                                                            Revenue              Works              Planning                PDAM

                                                             Finance             PMU                  Board

                                                  There are 40 PMUs in four
                                                  Provinces
                          PIU                                                     PIU                                          PIU
                      Provincial                                                  City                                      PDAM
                       Proj. Mgr           There are at least 5 PIUs in       Proj. Mgr
                                                                                                                           Proj. Mgr
                                           four Provinces

                                                                             There are 160 PIUs in four        There are 60 PIUs in four
                                                                             Provinces                         Provinces, for water projects
                               Structural Line
                               Report Line
                               Coordination                   There are about 2,387 contract packages excluding small contracts for
                                                              community-based works (estimated about 115 packages)




                                                                       - 47 -

Additional Annex 10. Project Achievements by Province

Status of Achievement of Objectives

South Sulawesi Province.

The original project covering 18 cities/towns was appraised by the Bank. Subsequently, 23 additional
cities/towns were included at the insistence of GOI to "scale up" the project for wider impact. Project
preparation for the additional cities/towns was to be done by the Borrower in the course of the project
implementation. Due to large number of participating local governments, the project cities are grouped into
five regions. Each region had two teams of DED Consultants to assist the sub-projects in each city in
preparing detailed designs, drawings and tender documents, and to supervise the physical implementation.
These teams were for the road component and the non-road (other) component, such as water supply,
sanitation, drainage, solid waste, terminal and KIP/MIIP. These five regions were:

Region I, consisting of Mamuju (Kab. Mamuju), Majene (Kab. Majene), Polewali (Kab. Polewali
Mamasa/Polmas), and Pinrang (Kab. Pinrang);
Region II, consisting of Barru (Kab. Barru), Enrekang (Kab. Enrekang), Sidenreng (Kab. Sidenreng
Rappang/Sidrap), Makale (Kab. Tana Toraja/Tator), Rantepao (Kab. Tana Toraja/Tator), Pare Pare,
Watampone;
Region III, consisting of Pangkajene (Kab. Pangkajene Kepulauan/Pangkep), Maros (Kabupaten Maros),
Ujungpandang (now Makassar), Sungguminasa (Kab. Gowa), and Takalar (Kab. Takalar);
Region IV, consisting of Bontosunggu (Kab. Pangkajene), Bantaeng (Kab. Bantaeng), Bulukumba (Kab.
Bulukumba), Sinjai (Kab. Sinjai), and Benteng (Kab. Selayar); and
Region V, consisting of Watampone (Kab. Bone), Sengkang (Kab. Wajo), Watansoppeng (Kab. Soppeng),
and Palopo (Kab. Luwu).

Achievement of the First Objective. The majority of the sub-projects were completed with various degrees
of completion and quality, but the achievement of their objectives were mixed. In general, road
sub-projects are completed and functioning, except in Pinrang where western ring road is not yet in use due
to poor quality of road surfacing. Drainage sub-projects are mostly functioning, but the level of
maintenance is insufficient. Most (but not all) water supply sub-projects are completed and functioning.
Solid waste: landfills are completed but some of them are not operated for various reasons; those in use
are only operated for open dumping. KIP and MIIP sub-projects are generally completed satisfactorily.
All transportation terminals taken up for construction are completed and are in use, although
improvements are still needed on the platform, access road or surrounding drains. The following table
summarizes the status of project quality and completion from the quality control review carried out by the
PCO Consultant in September 2001. The status was updated during the supervision mission in October
2002.




                                                    - 48 -

Status of Project Completion - South Sulawesi Province
No City/Kabupaten         Water Supply Drainage                         Road             Terminal           Solidwaste           Sanitation             KIP            MIIP
Region I

1  Mamuju (Kab. Mamuju)    N.A                N.A                 N.A                N.A                  N.A                  N.A               N.A             N.A

                                                                                                          Landfill
                                                                                                          completed, but
                           Good quality of                                                                still need
                           WTP, water loss    Good quality.                                               supporting
                           still very high    Need budget for                                             facilities, not yet
2  Majene (Kab. Majene)    (60%)              maintenance         Acceptable quality N.A                  used                 N.A               N.A             N.A

                           The system has
                           been functioning,                                                              Landfill not yet
                           with a few         Acceptable                             Completed with       used, still using
   Polewali (Kab. Polewali distribution pipe  quality, but need   Good quality and good quality, but      the old site with
3  Mamasa/ Polmas)         still lacking      regular cleaning    used               not yet used         open dumping         N.A               N.A             Acceptable quality

                                                                                      Already
                           The system will    Good quality and Completed but          functioning and
                           still need         working well, but   finished quality is being utilized, but Acceptable quality
                           additional         need drainage       poor, especially    drains still to be  of Landfill, not yet Sewage plant not
4  Pinrang (Kab. Pinrang)  electricity supply master planning     western ring road added                 used                 yet used          N.A             N.A

Region II
                                                                                     Already
                                                                                     functioning and
                                              Completed by                           being utilized, but Completed, but
                           The spring source primary drains still Completed and in not yet fully          equipment not yet                      Completed and
5  Barru (Kab. Barru)      is depleting       lacking             use                completed            made available       N.A               utilized        N.A
                                                                                                          Landfill far from
                                                                  Completed and in                        the city,
                                                                  use. Acceptable                         acceptable
                                                                  quality, but still                      quality, already
   Enrekang (Kab.          The system is      Already             need                                    operated (open
6  Enrekang)               functioning.       functioning         improvement        N.A                  dumping)             N.A               N.A             N.A

                           The water quality Completed, but                                               Completed, but
   Pangkajene (Kab.        needs to be        needs primary                                               leachete                               Completed,
   Sidenreng               improved by        and secondary       Completed and in                        treatment still to                     additional
7  Rapang/Sidrap)          aeration           drains              use                N.A                  be finished          N.A               footpath needed N.A



                                                                                     Completed.           Landfill completed Communal toilet
                                                                                     Parking area and but not yet in use, already
   Makale (Kab. Tana       The spring is                                             access road to be buldozer is             functioning and in
8  Toraja)                 depleting                                                 financed by LG.      needed               use               N.A


                           The system is                                                                  Landfill completed
                           functioning,       The system is                                               and used, sanitary
                           increase           functioning, O&M                                            landfill is applied,
   Rantepao (Kab. Tana     operation from 6   funds already       Completed and in                        need minor repair                                      Market completed
9  Toraja)                 to 12 hours a day  allocated by LG     use                N.A                  on leachete pipe     N.A               N.A             and in use

                           Chemical pumps
                           still to be        Completed and                                                                                                      Market completed
                           completed, to be   functioning, needs                                                               Sewage plant                      and used,
                           covered by city    regular cleaning.                                                                completed but not                 garbage need to
                           government         Flood still occur in                                                             yet used, need                    be collected
10 Pare Pare               budget             lower city area                                                                  some repairs                      properly




                                                                               - 49 -

Region III
                                                                                   Already
                          The system is       Already                              functioning and     Completed but
   Pangkajene (Kab.       functioning, but    functioning, still                   being utilized, but drainage system
   Pangkajene             needs additional    needs aditional    Completed and in not yet fully        needs to be                            Completed and
11 Kepulauan/Pangkep)     capacity            drains             use               completed           added                                  utilized         N.A

                          Pipe network and                                                                                 Sewage plant
                          house connection                                                             Completed but not completed but not
                          completed,                                                                   yet in use,         used, poor
                          waiting for WTP                                                              bulldozer would     construction
12 Maros (Kab. Maros)     to be operated      N.A                N.A                N.A                be needed           quality            N.A              N.A

                                                                                                       The program is      Pilot project on
                          NOT INCLUDED                                                                 half completed      communal septic
   Ujungpandang (now      IN THE              Completed,                                               due to budget       tank already                        Completed and
13 Makassar)              PROGRAM             covering 6,300 ha N.A                 N.A                limitation          completed          N.A              utilized
                                                                 NOT INCLUDED
   Sungguminasa (Kab.                                            IN THE
14 Gowa)                  N.A                 N.A                PROGRAM            N.A                N.A                 N.A                N.A              N.A
                                              Quality
                                              acceptable, but
                          Functioning but     need regular                                                                                                     Completed but not
                          not optimum         cleaning. System                                         Completed but no                                        optimized, parking
                          (WTP needs to be not                   No drains in some                     drains and heavy                                        space flooded
15 Takalar (Kab. Takalar) improved)           interconnected     areas              N.A                equipment           N.A                N.A              during rain

Region IV

                          Functioning and     Quality
                          in use, but pipe    acceptable,                                              Works being
   Bontosunggu (Kab.      network needs to finishing could be                       Drains to be       carried out on
16 Jeneponto)             be expanded         much better        N.A                improved           landfill            N.A                N.A              N.A


                          The system is       Functioning. Need
                          functioning, but    regular cleaning                      Not yet used       Still operated as
                          due to limited      due to             Damaged bridge     awaits supporting open dumping,
   Bantaeng (Kab.         production, some sedimentation         due to flood under facilities to be   need supply of
17 Bantaeng)              areas not served    from sea sand      repair             completed          water for cleaning N.A                 N.A              N.A

                                              Acceptable
                                              quality, need
                          Issues on raw       improvement on                                                               Poor onstruction
   Bulukumba (Kab.        water use needing inlet, need regular                                        Quality of landfill quality, need
18 Bulukumba)             resolution          cleaning           N.A                N.A                is acceptable       improvements       N.A


                          Quality of water    Slope not enough,
                          produced by WTP full of sediment
                          is not good, need (primary drain),                                                               The program was
                          additional          need further                                             Landfill completed cancelled due to    Good quality and
19 Sinjai (Kab. Sinjai)   chemical            repairs                                                  but not yet in use budget cut          fully beneficial N.A

                                                                                                       Completed but       Two out of three
                          Functioning, pipe Functioning,         Completed and in                      need drains and     communal septic
                          network is still    needs additional   use but partly                        leachete            tank already in    Completed and
20 Benteng (Kab. Selayar) lacking             drain              damaged            N.A                treatment           use                utilized         N.A

Region V

                          The system is
                          functioning, but                                                                                 Constructed
                          spring capture still                   NOT INCLUDED                                              facilities need to
                          to be improved,     Acceptable quality IN THE                                                    be checked with
21 Watampone (Kab. Bone) including BPT        and clean          PROGRAM            N.A                N.A                 design             N.A              N.A

                                                                                                                           Acceptable quality
                                              Acceptable                                                                   of sewage plant,
                                              quality,                                                 Landfill is in use, but not yet used,
                                              functioning, but                      Completed and      SOP need to be      pending transfer
22 Sengkang (Kab. Wajo)   N.A                 full of garbage,   N.A                functioning        applied             of asset           N.A              N.A

                                                                                                                                                               Market is
                                              Already                                                                                                          completed but
                                              functioning, but                                         Completed, but                                          there is still
   Watansoppeng (Kab.                         still needs                                              access road still   Functioning and                     problem with
23 Soppeng)               N.A                 additional drains  N.A                N.A                to be finished      in use             N.A              parking space

                                                                                                                           Sludge truck
                                                                                                                           already
                          Functioning, but                                                                                 purchased, but
                          water quality                                             Already                                sewage plant
                          needs to be                            Completed and in completed and        Completed but       cancelled due to
24 Palopo (Kab. Luwu)     improved            Functioning        use                being utilized     needs arm-roll      budget limitation  N.A              N.A




                                                                            - 50 -

Achievement of Other Objectives. Considerable efforts were made over a period of seven years to achieve
the first objective. In spite of that, there is little evidence to indicate that there has been a marked
improvement in urban infrastructure management as well as in urban environmental management. The
PPIS advisor indicated that the implementing environment was not conducive to the Project achieving its
objectives. Poor governance resulted from the dominant and deeply ingrained mind-set, attitudes and
behavior of government officials at all levels, and also the corresponding mind-set and behavior patterns of
the parties that interacted with these government officials in the preparation and implementation of the
Project (e.g., consultants, contractors, suppliers). The environment of poor governance is riddled with
perverse incentives which result in poor quality of works, inefficiency, substantial wastage of government
funds, and polluted environment.

South East Sulawesi Province.

Achievement of the First Objective. The province had all five major cities participate in the project.
Except for the bus terminal in Kolaka and the water supply subproject in Unaaha, all sub-projects were
completed with varying degrees of quality. The terminal in Kolaka could not be finished before the Loan
closing date, but was later completed using own funds. In Unaaha, as the spring source was depleted, the
subproject could not provide sufficient water supply to the city. In Bau Bau, an additional program was
implemented to improve the existing infrastructure for the incoming refugees from Ambon. The works
included installation of paving blocks for street vendors, local drains and public hydrants in the public
market. This additional program relieved the problem caused by incoming refugees.

In general, road sub-projects reached the intended service level. Accumulated benefits over the lifetime of
the completed projects will, to a large extent, depend on the availability of sufficient O&M budget.
Drainage and flood control sub-projects did not fully reach intended service levels due to limited budget,
as the loan amount was reduced following GOI requests. The main problem with the completed facilities is
operation and maintenance, mainly due to sedimentation and accumulated garbage in the canals. Both road
and drainage sub-projects are functional, but insufficient funds for O&M remains a concern.
Transportation terminals are mostly completed, but some of them are not in service for various reasons,
ranging from lingering land acquisition issues that took longer than expected, incomplete access roads,
improper location related to town development plans, and missing supporting facilities such as water
supply.

Water supply sub-projects did not reach the intended service level. Achievement in these sub-projects are
below expectations, especially due to the difficulty in reducing the high level of unaccounted-for water
(UfW). Despite considerable investments from sub-loans, losses of some PDAMs have increased. Given
the present state of the PDAMs (with Bau Bau being an exception), follow-up action is required by the
concerned PDAMs to reduce the water losses in the system in order to improve financial performance and
the ability of the utilities to repay loans.
Solid waste sub-projects, as far as garbage collection is concerned, have improved service delivery. But the
operation of landfills (TPAs) remains problematic as most of them use open dumping. Sanitation
sub-projects, to a considerable extent, did reach the intended service level. However, environmental
management in general did not get adequate attention from local governments and the general public. KIP
and MIIP sub-projects largely delivered services as intended. The main reason behind the success in
implementing KIP is that it was strongly supported by the community. Further, the constructed markets
under MIIP are being utilized, but the fees should be increased to cover the required O&M costs and
sub-loan repayments The following table summarizes the status of quality and completion of the



                                                          - 51 -

sub-projects as reported by the PCO quality control team in June 2001 with updates from the supervision
mission in October 2002.

Status of Project Completion - South East Sulawesi Province
No City                   Water Supply Drainage                           Road            Terminal           Solidwaste        Sanitation            KIP             MIIP
                                                                                                                             Communal septic
                                                                                                                             tanks were       Acceptable
                           House connection                                                                                  completed and    quality and
                           installation                                                                                      functional. Some functional, the
                           completed, but      Good quality and                                                              adjustment are   project improved
                           need                good finishing       Acceptable                                               needed to make   the environmental
                           improvements on work, need               quality, but still                                       the system long  quality
25   Kendari               meter box.          regular cleaning     less traffic       N.A                 N.A               lasting          significantly    N.A

                                                                                       Terminal under
                                                                    Not very good      completion,
                                                                    quality, no side   acceptable
26   Raha (Kab. Muna)      N.A                 N.A                  drains             quality.            N.A               N.A              N.A              N.A

                                                                                       Acceptable                                                              Acceptable
                                                                                       quality, but                                                            quality, need
                                                                                       located in the hill,                                                    improvement on
                           Need some                                                   makes the bus       Not vey good                                        drains. Additional
                           improvement on                                              difficult to enter  quality on access                                   works for refugee
27   Bau Bau (Kab. Buton)  pipe connection     N.A                  N.A                into the terminal   road              N.A              N.A              relief

                           Acceptable
                           quality, but need
                           maintenance and
                           repair, not in full
                           operation as        Acceptable
                           spring yield was    quality, but need
28   Unaaha (Kab. Kendari) depleting           cleaning             Acceptable quality N.A                 N.A               N.A              N.A              Poor maintenance
                                                                                                           Completed except
                                                                                                           leachate pipes,
                                                                                       Could not be        need some
                                                                                       completed before repairs. O&M
                           Completed but not                                           the loan closing    budget already
                           yet in operation,   Acceptable           Completed and in date, but later       allocated, include
                           some works are      quality, but not yet use, already       completed using     purchase of dump                                    Under completion,
29   Kolaka (Kab. Kolaka)  underway            used                 needs repair       own funds           truck             N.A              N.A              acceptable quality



Achievement of Other Objectives. The major obstacle to improve municipal management and service
delivery has been the budgeting and accounting system. The budget system has called for budgets to be
utilized within the budget year. This has created, through the years, a highly distinct project culture and
mentality in which project managers are evaluated on their ability to fully utilize the allocated budget. The
municipal accounting system does not allow for the possibility of measuring outputs versus inputs.

As also found in other provinces, the impact of the training has been limited. The main reasons for this
limited impact, among others, are: (i) very late start of the implementation of the training program; (ii)
inappropriate selection of trainees; (iii) unclear job descriptions; (iv) frequent job rotations (to new
positions where the training imparted earlier was of limited use); and (v) the training imparted being
insufficiently practical. The lack of a master training program, providing for a menu of training options
and criteria for participant selection as well the lack of provision for retaining for new positions, seriously
reduced the impact of training.

Central Sulawesi Province.

Central Sulawesi had five cities participating. Virtually all sub-projects from their PJMs were covered in
these five cities, except some components in certain cities (terminal in Donggala, water supply in Palu and
sanitation sub-projects in Donggala and Poso). Except in Poso, most sub-projects were completed. Social
unrest in the form of severe conflict between the ethnic groups in Poso, starting in 1998, resulted in
stoppage of most sub-projects in this town. None of the contractors were able to complete the work on




                                                                                 - 52 -

time due to the security situation. After this social unrest was over, most of the works were completed, but
their satisfactory operation and maintenance is uncertain.

Water supply sub-projects were completed, but the implementation program did not demonstrate the
priority for distribution expansion, while focusing too much on additional production. This led to excess
capacity, requiring a large increase in the number of connections for effective capacity utilization. For
solid waste, the landfills (TPAs) in three cities had problems during implementation due to the poor quality
of geological conditions. Although mitigation measures were taken, the TPA in Luwuk was operating as an
open dump. For Sanitation, except in Palu, the sewage treatment plants (IPLTs) built under the project are
not functioning. In Palu, the plant is not operated as intended, as the volume of incoming sludge is still less
than the design capacity of the plant. The sewage plant (IPLT) in Toli Toli experienced problems during
construction due to poor design quality. Rectifying the plant requires additional funding from the city
government. Road and drainage sub-projects were completed and are functioning, but they require
adequate maintenance. Transportation terminals: New bus terminals have been constructed in all cities
except Donggala. The terminal location in Palu is considered too far from the city center, and its
construction quality is poor.

Status of Project Completion - Central Sulawesi Province
No City                      Water Supply Drainage                        Road             Terminal        Solidwaste          Sanitation              KIP             MIIP
                                                                                                          Landfill operated
                                                                                                          as open dumping, Sewage plant not
                              Already                                                                     problem with       in function. The
                              transferred to                        Only partially     Not yet in use,    drains and quality purchase of
                              PDAM and                              completed due to awaiting electricity of geo-textile     sludge track is
30  Luwuk (Kab. Banggai)      functioning        N.A                budget limitation  and access road    layers             cancelled          N.A               N.A
                                                                                       Already
                                                                                       functioning.
                                                                                       Acceptable
                                                                    Good quality, side quality, but                                             Good
                              NOT INCLUDED       Good quality,      drain to be        fininsing works                       Sewage plant in    construction
                              IN THE             need routine       completed in one need to be                              function, but not  quality, but needs
31  Palu                      PROGRAM            maintenance        road section       improved.          N.A                yet fully utilized maintenance       N.A

                              Completed but not
                              functioning due to                                       Completed but not Completed but not NOT INCLUDED
                              civil disturbance                     Completed and in in use due to civil in use due to civil IN THE
32  Poso (Kab. Poso)          (riot)             N.A                use                disturbance        disturbance        PROGRAM            N.A               Completed

                                                                                                          Landfill already in                   The project
                                                                                                          operation. Access                     improves the
                                                 Functioning. River                                       road need                             environment,
                                                 bank                                                     realignment, side                     needs to be
                                                 improvement,                                             wall to be added.                     expanded, incl.
                                                 need regular                          NOT INCLUDED       Problem with       NOT INCLUDED       public toilet,
    Donggala (Kab.                               cleaning on the                       IN THE             quality of geo-    IN THE             hydrant, garbage
33  Donggala)                 N.A                river              Not yet in use     PROGRAM            textile layers     PROGRAM            bins.             Completed

                                                                                                          Landfill with
                                                                    Arterial road,                        controlled
                                                                    good quality,                         operation already
                              WTP ompleted,                         need                                  completed and
                              operation awaiting                    maintenance.                          operated.          Sewage plant not
                              completion of      Normalization of   Road to school,                       Problem with       yet completed,
    Toli Toli (Kab. Buol Toli house connection. river. Improve the poor quality, no                       quality of geo-    sludge truck
34  Toli)                     Good quality plant existing condition side drain.        N.A                textile layers     already available N.A                Functioning



North Sulawesi Province.

The project covers seven cities. In 2001, the new province of Gorontalo was formed and separated from
North Sulawesi Province. It covers Gorontalo and Kabupaten Gorontalo. Despite large investments in the
water supply sub-project (22% of the total), UfW was not reduced much. The sanitation program was
substantially reduced to a bare minimum, and the quality of sanitation management by local governments
remained poor. The drainage sub-project is by far the largest single sector (about 45% of the total), where



                                                                                - 53 -

65% of the sub-projects represented rehabilitation of or improvements to the existing facilities. Most of the
works have positively affected the city's development. The road sub-projects were completed, but with
uneven quality of construction. A large proportion of the solid waste investment was on constructing
landfills (TPAs) for final disposal and/or for procuring heavy equipment. Relatively little investment was
devoted to other components, including collection, recycling and transport. KIP was implemented based on
a relatively standard approach, with some community participation. An encouraging performance came
from the significant increase of available shop (kiosk) space rented out in some towns between 1996 and
2000. The transportation terminal sub-project was cancelled from the project.



Status of Project Completion - North Sulawesi Province
     City                   Water Supply Drainage                        Road         Terminal    Solidwaste        Sanitation             KIP             MIIP
                                                Five drainage
                                                improvements.
                                                Poor
                            Additional meters maintenance,        3 road                                                            Not all KIP
                            (1355 units) and    damaged drains,   improvements.     NOT                                             programs are
                            reservoir           size not proper,  Mostly without    IMPLEMENTED                                     implemented.
                            completed, need     many illegal      side drain, needs AS NO SUBLOAN                                   Needs cleaning,
                            pipe rehabilitation houses along      to follow city    WAS                                             needs community
35   Manado                 program             drains            master plan       PROCESSED    N.A               N.A              training.         N.A


                            WTP (20 l/s) and                                                     Landfill completed
                            pipe bridge                                                          but not optimally
                            completed.                                                           used, because
     Limboto (Kab.          System now in                                                        bulldozer not yet
     Gorontalo) (now        function. Good      No side drain,                                   available. Access
     included in the new    quality of          need O/M for                                     road needs to be
36   Province of Gorontalo) construction        maintenance       N.A               AS ABOVE     improved          N.A              N.A               N.A

                                                                                                                                                      Central market,
                                                                                                                                                      completed and in
                                                                                                 TPA completed,    Good quality of                    use. Good quality,
                                                                                                 and well operated IPLT. Needs to be                  good drains,
                                                Flat area, high                                  using controlled  operated soon.                     needs routine
     Gorontalo (now included                    sedimentation                                    landfill. Access  Slduge truck                       O/M. Nees
     in the new Province of                     rate, full of                                    road needs to be needs to be                         garbage disposal
37   Gorontalo)             N.A                 garbage.          N.A               AS ABOVE     improved.         added.           N.A               site.


                                                                                                 Functioning,
     Tahuna (Kab. Sangihe   Pipe not all                                                         equipments
38   Talaud                 installed           N.A               N.A               AS ABOVE     already provided  N.A              N.A               N.A

                            WTP (30 l/s)        Several drains                                   Landfill is being
                            completed but not including check                                    completed, not yet                 KIP completed
                            yet used, intake    dam. Generally                                   used. Access                       and used. Poor
                            needs to be         good quality.     Good quality, but              road needs to be                   quality. No side
39   Bitung                 repaired first.     Needs O/M         no side drains.   AS ABOVE     improved          N.A              drains.           N.A



                                                                                                                                    Drains partially
                                                                  Only partly (2.0               Functioning, but                   completed (22 m),
                            Functioning, use                      out of 2.5 km)                 with no equipment                  other components
     Kotambagu (Kab.        only 20 l/s out of  Functioning well, completed due to               (cancelled due to                  cancelled due to
40   Bolaang Mongondow)     370 l/s production no more flood      budget limitation AS ABOVE     misprocurement)   N.A              budget limitation N.A


                                                Good quality,                                                                                         Good quality, but
     Tondano (Kab.                              need routine                                                                                          drains and water
41   Minahasa)              N.A                 maintenance       N.A               AS ABOVE     N.A               N.A              N.A               not yet functioning



Physical Accomplishments

The SAR defines performance indicators to monitor the project's overall achievements. Five groups of
performance indicators were proposed: (i) service performance; (ii) poverty alleviation; (iii) urban
environment; (iv) sustainability of development; and (v) social impact. Table 1 of Annex 5 of the SAR
summarizes these performance indicators, including indicators for physical achievements. The following



                                                                               - 54 -

assessment of physical performance is based on reports the PCO advisors.

  Table 1. Physical accomplishments

                                                                                   Physical Accomplishment

          Subsector                   Indicator                           Targeted                           Achieved
Roads                      Km built and rehabilitated      815 km                              964.7 km
Drainage                   Km built and rehabilitated      215,283 m of primary drain          167,268 m of primary drain
                                                           676,196 m of secondary drain        392,338 m of secondary drain
                                                           25,922 ha of flood protection       25,545 ha of flood protection
Solidwaste                 Waste (volume) properly         224 containers                      554 containers
                           disposed at final disposal site 95 waste truck                      241 waste truck
                           (TPA)                           37 landfills (TPA)                  35 landfills (TPA)
                                                           760,000 beneficiaries               2,195,000 beneficiaries
Water Supply               # of household connections      120,205 connections                 42,785 connections
                                                           262 public hydrants                 161 public hydrants
                                                           19 reservoirs                       27 reservoirs
                                                           23 WTPs                             27 WTPs
                                                           409,500 beneficiaries               287,000 beneficiaries
Sanitation                 Sludge (volume) properly        28 sewage plants                    30 sewage plants
                           treated                         155 communal septic tanks           171 communal septic tanks
                                                           827,750 beneficiaries               820,000 beneficiaries
KIP/MIIP                   Area improved                   2,205 ha slum improvement           2,039 ha slum improvement
                                                           142,868 m access road               109,371 m access road
                                                           225,000 beneficiaries               101,950 beneficiaries
Terminal                   # of terminal built             25 units                            17 units


The above table shows that while the road, drainage and solid waste sub-projects either exceeded or
substantially achieved their physical targets, the water and sanitation subprojects did not.

During the project life, revisions were made on project targets. A significant revision of targets was made
during the Mid-term Review (MTR) in 1999, after significant cancellation (US$42 million) of the Loan in
August 1998. (Another Loan cancellation of $25 million was made in December 1999). The MTR
mission encountered several problems in project implementation that led to an "unsatisfactory" rating.
Progress towards achieving the first objective, infrastructure development, was slowed down by the
economic crisis. The disbursement rates were very low (US$16 million after three years of project
implementation). Many large-scale water supply investments were problematic, where despite the
Executing Agency's best efforts, some of them were found to be infeasible and/or unable to proceed.
Progress towards other objectives was also considered uncertain, especially on improving urban
management. The mission felt that these objectives could be achieved if a major change is made in
direction, with much more attention to properly operating and maintaining the existing infrastructure, along
with human resource development and institutional strengthening.

A subsequent (1999) mission suggested a six-part strategy to get the Project back to satisfactory ratings.
These were: (i) improved disbursement and loan cancellations; (ii) improved training program; (iii)
increased attention to O&M; (iv) poverty focus; (v) improved project management; and (vi) better
municipal management. Preparation of revised PJMs took longer than expected, and many local
governments were reluctant to cancel some of the sub-projects or to reduce the project scope. In addition,
the revised PJMs indicated a significant variance in terms of Bank funds disbursed. These discrepancies



                                                           - 55 -

were both serious and significant, and reconciliation was to be made. These contributed to significant
delays in the APIP review for FY 2000/2001. Based on the revised PJMs, the project continued, and
physical achievements were measured, against the new targets as stated in the revised PJMs.




                                                    - 56 -

Additional Annex 11. Impact of the Economic Crisis


       In view of the comparable nature of Sul2UDP in terms of the approach, project design, duration and
wide geographic coverage with the Second East Java Urban Development Project (EJ2UDP) which was
completed in December 2001, the following summary was drawn from Annex 11 of the ICR for the
EJ2UDP, with some adjustments to reflect the local situation and project details of the Second Sulawesi
UDP. This annex attempts to present some basic aspects of the national financial and economic crisis
which hit Indonesia from the second half of 1997 onward, and the most important effects of this crisis on
the implementation of Sul2UDP.

The Development of Exchange Rates

         From the late 1980s until 1996, Indonesia, like most other nations in Southeast Asia, had enjoyed a
period of unprecedented economic growth, with GDP growth rates of around 8% annually. The exchange
rate of Indonesia's currency, the Rupiah, against hard currencies, especially the US Dollar, was fairly
stable with only a slight tendency toward gradual depreciation. The typical exchange rate in 1996 ranged
slightly from Rp. 2,250 to Rp. 2,350 = US$1. However, there were already indications of latent structural
weaknesses as well as of social and political problems which had the potential to undermine the nation's
stability.

       The chain of events now commonly called the "Asian crisis" began in Thailand when the national
currency there experienced a sharp drop of its exchange rate against hard currencies in early July 1997.
Beginning in September 1997, the Rupiah's exchange rate gradually began to deteriorate as well, and by
October the Rupiah had dropped to about Rp. 3,500 to the dollar. At the same time, the stock markets of
Southeast Asia began a period of strongly bearish trends. In Malaysia, this trend had already begun in
March 1997. A big psychological blow to investors in the region was the collapse of South Korea's stock
market in late October 1997, and the grave economic difficulties which that country subsequently
experienced, including a rapid depreciation of its national currency.

       The Rupiah's exchange rate continued to deteriorate in November 1997, and in early December 1997
it entered a period of wild fluctuations. These fluctuations were connected to a number of rumors
circulating in the country. There was a rumor that one of Indonesia's richest businessmen had died in
Singapore, and there were even rumors that the president had died. On each of these occasions, the
Rupiah's exchange rate fluctuated wildly, from Rp. 4,000 to almost Rp. 6,000 to the dollar, changing
significantly from hour to hour. It was then that a strong feeling of nervousness, if not panic, began to
spread among the Indonesian public, with ordinary people suddenly beginning to continuously monitor the
exchange rate over TV or radio.

       In January 1998, the collapse of the Rupiah's exchange rate reached its peak, with quoted figures
varying from Rp. 14,000 to Rp. 17,000 to the dollar. Currency trading became so frantic and obviously
speculative that significantly different rates were quoted at the same time in different locations or by
different traders. This added to the general feeling of insecurity and panic.

       By March and April 1998, the exchange rate had recovered to about US$ 1 = Rp. 7,000, but then
mass demonstrations, riots in Jakarta, and the resignation of President Suharto on May 21, 1998 led again
to a deterioration of the exchange rate, to figures of about US$1 = Rp. 14,000. With the inauguration of
Prof. Habibie as President, the hoped-for speedy recovery of the Rupiah's exchange rate did not
immediately materialize, but a positive trend began to appear in September 1998, and by late October 1998
the exchange rate had reached a level of about US$1 = Rp. 7,600. In late 1998 and early 1999, it generally
hovered around US$1 = Rp. 8,000, recovered for a short while up to about US$1 = Rp. 6,700 after the


                                                     - 57 -

election of a new president in October 1999, then gradually fell to a low of about US$1 = Rp. 11,000 by
mid-2001, and finally recovered again to a level of US$1 = Rp. 8,800 by end of May 2002, and later
recovered to approximately US$1 = Rp. 8,000. These movements in the exchange rate affected public
perception of political and social stability in the country.

General Consequences of the Exchange Rate Shift

1.       Prices for imported goods increased, and terms of payment changed

       An immediate consequence of the drop in the Rupiah's exchange rate was that the (Rupiah
denominated) prices for all imported goods and components rose substantially. This also hurt many
businesses which were basically export-oriented but were still relying on imported raw materials and/or
imported components. Not only did the price for such imported materials increase significantly in Rupiah,
there were reportedly also changes in the terms of payment: suppliers, who had previously often given a
generous credit line, were now insisting on immediate payment, if not advance payment, and/or payment in
hard currency.

2.       Domestic interest rates rose, and financing problems increased

       In order to stem the tide and prevent an even faster collapse of the Rupiah's external value, the Bank
of Indonesia embarked on a course of raising interest rates. This, however, hurt many businesses some of
whom had apparently grown so accustomed to credit lines from suppliers and/or easy and cheap bridge
financing from banks that they had neglected the need for the accumulation of sufficient working capital of
their own. With foreign credit lines drying up and domestic credit becoming much more expensive than
before, if not downright unavailable, these businesses faced enormous problems in bridge financing their
operations. Therefore, even many businesses that should, theoretically, have thrived on their increasingly
competitive export prices, could not sustain their operations.

       The most hard-hit economic sectors were those most dependent on long-term and medium-term
financing, particularly the property sector. With rapidly rising costs for many items, rapidly rising costs of
funding, and with ever gloomier prospects for eventual sales or even rentals, the real estate and property
development sector faced a severe slump. Many projects had to be cancelled or at least suspended.

3.       Unemployment rose, and average household incomes fell

         The fact that many construction projects and other businesses came to a halt caused severe
problems of unemployment, especially among the poorly paid unskilled workers who were laid off in large
numbers and within a short period of time. In other sectors, too, workers were laid off in large numbers,
including in the textile, garment, and shoe industries, and in many, if not all other sectors of the economy.
The resulting loss in incomes and purchasing power triggered more problems, e.g., in retail trading and
related sectors. With this development, the awareness that a major economic crisis was at hand spread to
all social strata, including the lower classes in urban as well as rural environments who previously had
hardly noticed, or been concerned over, fluctuations in exchange rates.

4.       Domestic inflation rose

         While the drop in the Rupiah's external exchange rate had immediately affected mainly imported
goods and services payable in foreign currency, it was only a question of time until domestic price
escalation for virtually all goods was triggered. A major factor was the increase in fuel prices (petrol and
diesel fuel for vehicles as well as kerosene for cooking), effected in May 1999. At the same time, all spare
parts for motor vehicles drastically increased in price. The ensuing increase of all transportation costs did



                                                      - 58 -

of course affect all goods in the country. Prices for electricity were increased, too. Powdered milk and
chicken meat were among the foodstuffs whose prices rose quickly and sharply, as a result of their high
content of imported components. A ban on palm oil exports was effected, in order to protect local markets
from the competing export markets and to ensure supply to domestic buyers (in 1999, the domestic oil price
was considerably below the world market price). The sudden surge in inflation did not spare building
materials either. In August and September 1998, even the rice price increased sharply, partly on the
grounds of increased costs for fertilizers and pesticides, partly as a result of a poor harvest due to drought,
and partly as a result of increasing problems in distribution. In addition, smuggling may have contributed
to the shortages (such as rice for which the world market r price was appreciably higher than the domestic
price). Rice price inflation, always a point of the highest social and political relevance, reached dramatic
levels in August 1998, with an increase of 60% in just over one month.

5.       Social and political problems emerged and came to a boil

         By early 1998, the country was headed for a stagflation of high proportions, with soaring
unemployment, rapidly falling average household incomes, and skyrocketing inflation, all at the same time.
The previously existing social problems, especially the very skewed distribution of wealth and income, now
developed into rapidly rising public discontent, student demonstrations (in April and May 1998), and mass
rioting in Jakarta and other large and medium-sized cities (in May 1998). Eventually, President Suharto
was forced to resign on 21 May 1998, and former Vice President Prof. Habibie became the new president.
Demonstrations of political discontent largely subsided subsequently, but the economic problems including
their social implications remained.

 6.      Public revenue decreased

         With more and more businesses collapsing or at least suspending their operations, with the loss of
purchasing power among the general public, and with an expanding downward trend for all regional
economies, the central government and local governments lost a good deal of their established tax base and
thus of their revenue. For local governments, the situation was aggravated by legislation, initiated before
the financial crisis, which provided for a restructuring of tax revenue distribution, with local governments
losing some important components of their previous tax revenue.

       At the same time, local governments (as well as their water supply enterprises, the PDAMs) faced
increasing political resistance from their impoverished urban population whenever they attempted to adjust
the charges for infrastructure services to cover actual costs. The failure to raise these charges, however,
resulted in increasing need for subsidies, straining local government finances even further and impeding the
PDAMs' development toward a healthier financial status.

Implications of the Implementation of the Sul2UDP

       While the national economic, social, and political upheaval did of course impede the working
atmosphere and project implementation in general, the following points were particularly relevant for the
project's implementation progress:

7.       The extraordinary inflation required a review of all contracts, resulting in time loss

       With the extraordinary inflation, most construction contracts could not possibly be implemented at
the price which had been envisaged in previous owner estimates, budget allocations, or even contractually
agreed prices. Since the budget allocations could not be simply increased to accommodate the increased
prices, most contracts had to be reviewed with the objective of reducing their physical volume so that the
total cost of the contract could remain more or less unchanged even though higher unit prices were applied.



                                                      - 59 -

Obviously, such renegotiations for a large number of contracts were extremely time-consuming. This
process resulted in redefining all physical components, both individually and as parts of a whole, assuring
that the sum of all individual components was still a somehow sensible entity, determining the new unit
prices, and calculating the new contract value. Such a process is in fact more difficult than the "free"
calculation of the value of a new contract, because in the first case the final figure which the contract value
must reach is already given. In a nutshell, the resulting time loss was so great that the number of contracts
which could be finalized and implemented during the 1997-98 time span decreased significantly.

8.       Measured in foreign currency, the value of all contracts decreased

       As the exchange rate between local currency (almost all contracts are denominated in local currency)
and the US Dollar (in which the Loan Agreement is denominated) had altered so much, the (constant) price
of each local contract, if measured in US Dollars, represented a much smaller amount than had been
projected in previous planning documents. The wide fluctuations in the exchange rate also greatly
complicated the process of reimbursements to the Special Account and related accounting.

9.       Implementation of fewer contracts with reduced individual values slowed down loan
         disbursement

         Loan disbursement (in foreign currency) is a function of both the number of contracts which can be
implemented in a given time span, and their average value (in foreign currency). Thus, loan disbursement
would decrease sharply if both that number of contracts and the average value (in foreign currency) decline
sharply at the same time. This is what was observed without exception in Sul2UDP (in fact, in nearly all
Indonesian projects, between FY 1997/98 and FY 1998/99.

10.      Project tendering slowed down

       Both local governments and contractors were aware of the extraordinary inflation and therefore
silently agreed that there was little point in starting a tendering procedure before speedy payment was
assured. While in previous years a contract could be tendered or negotiated, then signed, perhaps even
partly implemented while funding was still under processing, this was not possible any longer under the
prevailing circumstances. If budgeted funds only become available with a delay, then either
implementation would have to be delayed (compared to the time schedule envisaged during tendering), or
payment could only be made a considerable time after implementation. In the working environment of, say
1999, however, neither solution was feasible. If implementation was delayed, prices would have risen so
much over the levels on which the tendering was based that the profitability of the project for the contractor
was no longer assured. If payment was made only a significant time after implementation, the cost of
pre-financing by the contractor, in a high-interest environment, would be so high that again profitability
was endangered. The only solution to this dilemma was, to wait with the tendering process until the client
had the budgeted funds available in cash. This again slowed down project preparation and implementation,
compared to original plans.


11.      Labor intensive ("Padat Karya") projects were designed

       During the implementation of Sul 2 UDP, adjustments were made to the effect that a program of
labor intensive projects ("Padat Karya" projects) should be executed. This included the need for a
reallocation of the loan amount, and this was effected in January 1998. The padat karya projects, which
previously had not been a program component, were allocated US$11 million.




                                                       - 60 -

       The planning and design of the padat karya projects was done under great time pressure, and a
number of shortcomings could be observed. For one, it had been envisaged that these projects should be
concentrated in those regions where the surge in unemployment as a result of the economic crisis was most
severe. In reality, however, the projects were fairly evenly scattered over the provinces, and a number of
them were found even in locations where the rise in unemployment had been only small. Another problem
was that it was difficult to provide jobs which would replace the jobs that had been lost as a result of the
crisis. The economic crisis led to the closure of many textile, garment, and shoe factories where a large
number of young women had been employed. The work opportunities offered by infrastructure
construction projects, however, were hardly suitable for that group.


12.      Agreed-upon Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) fell short of technical requirements

       With the general surge in inflation, the cost estimates for all projects designs became increasingly
obsolete. This had a special effect on those budgets which had been fixed in Rupiah, including the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the central government and local governments or PDAMs. As the
crisis continued, it was found that in many cases the SLA amounts would no longer be sufficient to fund
the envisaged project packages. On the other hand, many project packages had been designed in such a
manner that they would make economic sense only if they were implemented as a whole. If any one major
component were to be left out, the envisaged system might not be functional, leaving local governments
with unfinished systems which would not significantly increase the level of urban services so that little, if
any, additional income from retributions or similar charges could be created. This would constitute an
uneconomic investment for local governments.


13.      Repayability of SLAs became endangered

         The deteriorating financial situation in many local governments raised increasing doubts about
their ability to repay SLAs that had been envisaged and concluded under more favorable circumstances.
This led to the question whether local governments should really use their ceilings under the SLA or rather
reduce their borrowing to the level of their likely future repayment capacity and cancel part of the SLA in
order to avoid paying unnecessary commitment fees.

14.      Reduced Loan amount resulted in incomplete implementation

         Due to the fall of Rupiah value to the dollar, the use of the Loan was less than planned. This
caused GOI to reduce the total Loan amount in order to lessen the burden of the commitment charge. As a
result, the Loan Agreement was amended to cancel US$42 million (in 1998) and US$25 million (in 1999).
These cancellations resulted in budget cuts across the participating local governments and across the
components. A significant amount of time and effort was devoted to project restructuring, but the impact
on project implementation could not be avoided; some subprojects were left incomplete due to the resulting
shortage of funds. Certainly, as the implementation of Sul2UDP was very adversely affected, planning for
similar projects in the future will have to be based on very different assumptions and projections.




                                                     - 61 -

Additional Annex 12. Efforts to Promote Good Governance

The Bank mid-term review mission in 1999 felt that the project should be rated as "unsatisfactory". The
economic crisis in the country had undoubtedly contributed to this rating, as did the complexity of the
project and the complicated management arrangements. In 2000, the mission declared the project as
"marginally satisfactory". To return the project to a "satisfactory" rating, the mission suggested developing
a six-part strategy: (i) improve disbursements and cancel part of the Loan; (ii) expedite trainings; (iii)
improve operation and maintenance; (iv) focus on poverty alleviation; (v) improve project management;
and (vi) improve municipal management.

Urban Management Advisory Technical Assistance. To implement the recommended strategy to
improve municipal management, a technical assistance package for urban management advisors (UMA)
was developed, and collaboration with the UNDP-assisted BUILD program was initiated. The BUILD
(Breakthrough Urban Initiatives for Local Development) program is a program developed by UNDP to
enhance local governance. The overall strategy of the program was to introduce reforms that provide a
working environment as well as resources for innovative and effective management by local governments in
partnership with the private sector and the community. The specific aim of the program was to develop
with local governments (mayors) urban management capacities through innovative management.
Innovations were required in terms of operating environment (institutional structures and regulatory
framework) and specific management tasks, such as planning and programming, service delivery, financial,
economic and environmental management, etc. BUILD was implemented by the Ministry of Home Affairs,
under UNDP funding. The activity was started in 1998 in nine cities of Indonesia, including Kendari
(Southeast Sulawesi Province) and Gorontalo (Gorontalo Province). In both cities, BUILD provided
technical assistance by assigning an urban management advisor (UMA) to the respective mayor.          The ICR
mission learned that the presence of UMA in both cities was considered useful by the mayors.

In response to the request of GOI, in August 2000, the Bank agreed to make US$400,000 available for
technical assistance to implement the activities of the BUILD program in selected cities. Twenty LGs
expressed interest and 10 LGs were selected: Makassar, Pare Pare, Kab. Bantaeng, Kab. Selayar, Kab.
Maros, Kab Takalar, Palu, Kab. Toli Toli, Kab. Kendari, and Kab. Buton. It was unfortunate that the
program could not be implemented due to administrative restrictions within the Government (primarily due
to procurement and counterpart funding problems).

Indonesia - Australia Mentoring Program. As part of improving the capacity of local government
officials (implementation of the second strategy), in August 1999, Bank representatives tested the concept
of placing Indonesian local government officers with local government authorities in Australia and New
Zealand for learning experiences. The concept was further developed through discussion with key
stakeholders of Sul2UDP in Indonesia and with AusAID to determine the level of interest in supporting the
program on a long-term basis. The Indonesia - Australia Local Government Mentoring Program was
developed and implemented through Sul2UDP. The aim of the program was to demonstrate to (mostly
local) government participants how effectively local governments operate under decentralization. In
particular, it was designed to provide participants with work experience in an environment where the focus
is on "serving the public" and where good governance and management practices are in place.

The program, funded by the Loan, covered formal course design and delivery, airfares, accommodations
and a living allowance. The Lane Cove Council in Sydney was selected for its enthusiastic commitment.
The Council's contribution was offered on a no-cost basis. Ten participants selected from four provinces
participated in the program in Sydney from April 3 to June 2, 2000. A workshop was held in Jakarta on



                                                     - 62 -

September 8, 2000, to evaluate the program. The program was considered a success. Participants
developed a good appreciation of effective, customer focused, local government. They returned with an
understanding of the major role communities can play in positively shaping local government service
delivery. On a more operational level, participants gained knowledge in technical areas (such as waste
management and water). The workshop agreed, in principle, to continue the program. However, as the
project was stopped, following the results of the Bank's fiduciary review, the discussion on following up the
program was also discontinued.

The Bank's Fiduciary Review. The Bank selected Sul2UDP for the fiduciary review as a pilot to
strengthen its fiduciary controls in Bank-financed projects. The review mission, carried by INTIU, visited
four selected cities (Makassar and Pare Pare in South Sulawesi, Manado and Bitung in North Sulawesi) in
late 2001 and early 2002, for a total of five months. The review focussed on the procurement of
consultants, goods and works. The review mission selected the project with the understanding that it should
not be viewed as being indicative of fiduciary and governance problems prevalent in the project's entire
implementation process. Nevertheless, the findings (see Annex 13) showed shortcomings in the four
following areas: (i) maintenance of records; (ii) procurement process; (iii) contract management and
implementation; and (iv) financial management, including disbursements, accounting, record keeping and
auditing. The findings were published in the Bank's Indonesia website
(http://www.worldbank.or.id/). As requested by the Bank, the Executing Agency formulated a
safeguarding action plan for future projects in October 2002.

During the ICR Workshop held in Makassar (March 20-21, 2003), the provincial and local governments'
representatives expressed their views on the poor performance of the project. They noted that other
projects had already benefited from the experience in Sul2UDP, especially with regard to procurement and
financial management. (A Summary of the Fiduciary Review Results follows in Annex 13.)




                                                    - 63 -

  Additional Annex 13. Summary of Fiduciary Review Findings

1.         The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia, approved in January 2001,
proposed a proactive strategy for fiduciary work to strengthen fiduciary controls in Bank financed projects.
It had a limited focus -- a review of the Government's fiduciary practices in the implementation of the
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project (Sul2UDP) in selected contracts in four of the 41 cities and
towns under the project. It is important to note that project implementation is the responsibility of the
Borrower (in this case the Government of Indonesia), and the World Bank's role is to supervise the
Borrower's implementation of Bank-financed projects. The Government (along with its project implementing
agencies) is responsible for carrying out projects with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate practices to achieve their development objectives. This includes responsibility for putting in
place and maintaining adequate financial management systems (including accounting, financial reporting and
auditing systems), and procurement and progress monitoring for the project as part of overall arrangements
for project management. These systems should also be adequate to ensure that they can provide to the Bank
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures. An assessment of the
development impact of the project was, therefore, beyond the scope of this review. The Director General of
Urban and Rural Development supported the review as a way to ensure that borrowed funds were being used
well and to draw lessons for future projects.

2.         Completed in early 2002, the review was hampered by the overwhelming amount of missing
documentation for a majority of contracts relating to the administration of procurement and payments to
contractors, and other project-related financial information. The methodology, therefore, involved three main
steps covering four cities: (i) an overall assessment of 277 contracts in the focus cities for completeness and
documentation quality; (ii) a detailed procurement review of 26 contracts with a value of $1.4 million;(iii) a
detailed financial management review of 85 contracts with a value of $5.9 million. The results of all three
assessments indicated weak fiduciary practices in procurement, implementation and financial management
systems. The overall conclusion of this limited review in the four cities is that the procurement process was
manipulated in order to give the appearance of competition. It appears that the winners were prearranged in
a majority of the contracts reviewed. Fiduciary weaknesses also occurred during contract management,
implementation, and financial management (i.e., disbursements, accounting, record keeping and auditing). In
addition, the review indicated shortcomings in the fiduciary oversight by the Government in the four cities,
and poor performance of consultants who were expected to support the Government in project
implementation, supervision and overall coordination of the project.

3.         The contracts with significant fiduciary concerns are now being investigated by the Investigation
Unit of the World Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity, consistent with the Bank's policy on fighting
fraud and corruption in Bank-financed projects.

4.         Following presentation of the findings to the Government of Indonesia, the Bank and the
Government are jointly discussing the following: implications and actions related to the contracts
specifically reviewed in the four cities; and other lessons and possible actions.

5.         The remainder of this Annex presents the main findings of the fiduciary review of Sul2UDP in the
four cities which are organized into the following four areas:




                                                       - 64 -

   Maintenance of records.
   Procurement process.
   Contract management and implementation.
   Financial management (including disbursements, accounting, record keeping and auditing).

A. Maintenance of Records

6.        In the four cities under fiduciary review, the problem of missing documents and incomplete
information relating to procurement is significant. Even the substantially complete contracts did not have all
the information they should have (e.g., bid proposals of unsuccessful bidders, bid evaluation reports, bid
opening attendance sheets, bid price read-out sheets, Owner's Estimate, bid prices, pre-qualification details,
and technical specifications and drawings indicating the scope of work). This problem was also noticed in
the implementation of contracts and financial management (e.g., the lack of proper analysis, authorizations
and appropriate records to support contract amendments, proper documents verifying actual performance
prior to the payments being made, the lack of information showing the recipients of the payments made,
findings of Government's supervision of the contractors and consultants' work, and restrictions on the scope
of audits).

7.        The findings of the fiduciary review have raised concerns about the authenticity and integrity of the
documents. In addition to noncompliance with the loan agreement for the project, the non-availability of
adequate records is a significant risk to the integrity and accountability of the project management process.

B. Procurement Process

8.        The overall conclusion of this limited review is that the procurement process, in the sample of
major contracts reviewed in detail in the four cities, was manipulated in order to give the appearance of
competition. Manipulation of the procurement process affected the majority of contracts. It appears that the
winners were prearranged in a majority of the contracts reviewed. The main findings of a detailed review of
contracts where sufficient information was available for the analysis are summarized below.

9.        Similarities between bid prices: Bid prices (total and unit prices) of the winning bidder and of
losing bidders were similar and clustered around the Owner's Estimate almost universally in all contracts in
the sample. In many cases, the lowest evaluated bid differed by only a minute fraction from the Owner's
Estimate. In one case, the difference was 0.01% on a contract size of some Rp. 440 million. In another case
of a similar size, the difference between the prices of the three lowest evaluated bids was 0.2%. In another
contract of over Rp. 1 billion, the difference between the Owner's Estimate and the lowest evaluated bid was
0.05%, and the difference between the highest and lowest bids was 0.2%. In most contracts different bidders
shared the same unit prices, which, for most items, were identical to the unit prices in the Owner's Estimate.
In several cases, the arithmetic mistakes in the Owner's Estimate were carried over to the competing bids.
These findings suggest that the bidders in the four cities had access to the detailed calculations of the
Owner's Estimate and that they colluded in preparing bids.

10.       Other similarities in the bids: The bid proposals generally used the same formatting and
language. Documentation contained in the bids appeared to be photocopies of information from competing
bid documents. Bidders proposed common items (i.e., the same make and model). These similarities and
other problems noted in the procurement process strongly suggest active collusion among bidders. It also
appears that these practices continued throughout project implementation despite government and consultant
oversight.




                                                        - 65 -

11.       Contractor ownership issues: More than one contractor showing the same address, and bidding
on the same procurement package, was common to the majority of bids in the four cities where sufficient
information was available to make such comparisons. In one city, 18 instances of contractors sharing the
same address were found. Several cases of contractors sharing the same address and even telephone
numbers and bidding against each other on the same procurement package were noted. In some cases,
different contractors maintained the same bank account. Further analysis of contractor ownership in another
city revealed bidding by a cluster of companies owned by the same person. This was noticed in 57% of the
contracts reviewed, and in 28% of these contracts companies from the same ownership cluster were both
winning and losing bids on the same procurement package.

12.       In another city, the analysis of a portion of the total number of the contracts showed that five
groups of companies for which common ownership could be established were involved in 70% of the
procurement packages and were awarded 37 contracts. In many cases, firms from the same ownership group
were both awarded the contract and submitted losing bids for the same procurement package.

13.       The Indonesian Contractors Association (GAPENSI) is responsible for certifying the classification
of contractors in Indonesia, including in the four cities covered by this fiduciary review. Large contractors
are generally prominent members of GAPENSI and hold key positions in the GAPENSI's offices in the
provinces, cities, and other branch offices.

14.       Similarities in membership of the tendering committees were noted in all four cities. In one city,
the membership of the tendering committees has generally remained unchanged over time, and across sectors
and procurement packages.

15.       Authenticity of documentation in the bids: The above concerns and others discussed in this
paragraph have raised questions about the authenticity and validity of the bids and the procurement process
in the sample of contracts in the four cities. For example, the signatures of the same individual vary across
documents in the same bid package such as on the bid read-out sheet and the bid opening attendance sheet.
The dates at which different events have taken place in the procurement process are inconsistent or out of
order. The bid prices are reported differently in the bid evaluation reports. It appears that bid prices may
have been altered in some cases after the submission of bids. There are also concerns about the authenticity
of the bid bonds.

16.       Bid evaluation: The detailed review of the 26 contracts and a review of other contracts have
raised concerns about the quality of the bid evaluation process. In some cases, based on the information
available in the bid proposals, some bidders should have been disqualified. In other cases, the bid evaluation
reports where available did not provide explanation for not awarding the contract to the lowest evaluated
bidder. Information necessary to evaluate the appropriateness of the procurement process was, however,
missing in many cases examined by the fiduciary review team.

17.       Conclusions on the Procurement Process: The overall conclusion of the fiduciary review is that
the procurement process for the 26 contracts reviewed in detail was manipulated to give the appearance of
competition. The winners appear to have been preselected in most cases. The fiduciary review also found:

   The large number of companies within a single ownership cluster appears to be consistent with the
    creation of "shell" companies. A "shell" company involves the appointment of nominal directors who are
    without any real organizational powers or functions, and merely sign documents on behalf of the
    company.




                                                       - 66 -

  The similarities between the bid proposals of the winning and losing bidders is consistent with the
   possibility of government contracts having prearranged winners. Such a system ensures that everyone
   obtains work. The fiduciary review noted that all bidders were members of GAPENSI, and certification
   from GAPENSI is a condition of participating in the bidding process for government contracts.
   Furthermore, the similarities between the bid prices is likely to be indicative of the bidders having access
   to the unit price details of the Owner's Estimate in advance of preparing their bids.

  The inconsistencies noted in the bid documents are likely to be indicative that all bidders are not
   individually represented at the pre-qualification or bid selection meetings. In such circumstances, a single
   representative could be acting for multiple companies, which is consistent with the finding that companies
   from the same ownership cluster submitted both the winning and losing bids for the same contract.

  Instances were noted where the most competitive bidder was excluded from further evaluation. This is
   consistent with the possibility that administrative or weak technical grounds could be found to exclude
   competitive bidders from the selection process.

C. Contract Management and Implementation

18.        A review of the contract management aspects of a few contracts in the four cities has raised
questions about the quality of technical work, performance of the consultants, and project management, as
summarized below.

19.        Inability to verify contract performance: The built drawings provided by the contractor at the
completion of the work for a few contracts reviewed in detail in the four cities generally did not contain the
information necessary to evaluate whether or not the actual work performed was consistent with the
contracts. The use of the as built measurements enables a calculation of the volume of different items of
work executed by the contractor necessary to evaluate the actual work performed.

20.        Technical specifications vs. actual work completed: A detailed review of the back-up data sheets
in a few contracts indicates that the actual work performed as stated in the documents is not supported by
actual field survey data. The purpose of the survey information is to demonstrate that the work was actually
completed in accordance with the scope of work. In one package selected for a detailed review of one
back-up data sheet, the review revealed that the actual work appeared to be less than that described in the
scope of work and, therefore, the Government may have been invoiced beyond the actual work performed.

21.        Site visit observations indicate problems in contract performance: Site visits of the contracts
selected for a more detailed review indicated that the scope of work may not have been properly
implemented, and the percentage of completion of works as indicated in invoices was beyond the actual work
performed. Some facilities as constructed did not to conform to the bid drawings, and there were no change
orders available for design changes. For example: (i) in a drainage sub-project, drain covers were missing
despite the scope of work indicating that such work was included in the contract. In addition, no
documentation was available to support the changes made in the field to reflect changes in the scope of
work: and (ii) in a roads project, coring analysis indicated that hot asphalt may not have been applied as per
specifications on a particular road surface, but it was included in the invoices; (iii) in a sub-project for
footpaths, the work on a footpath had not been properly completed; (iv) in a water treatment sub-project,
equipment appeared to be missing or not properly installed despite the scope of work indicating that such
work was included in the contract; and (v) in another water treatment sub-project, the inside of water storage
tanks did not seem to have been properly finished, and the equipment was not operating.




                                                       - 67 -

22.        Based on the site visits concerning two contracts for the construction of a water treatment facility,
the descriptions of the "scope of work" in these contracts were inadequate for the purpose of determining
specifically what work was to be performed, thereby making the evaluation of performance difficult.
However, items included in the scope of the contracts were already in existence at the site. In addition, an
item included in the scope of work of one contract was likely to have been added to the scope of work of the
second contract. As a result, it appears that the Government was invoiced beyond the actual scope of work
performed and goods supplied by approximately 11% of the contract value.

23.        Contract splitting: Review of the various contracts in the four cities has raised concerns about the
criteria used in procurement planning, whether adequate attention was given to the need for economy and
efficiency in project implementation and technical and operational aspects of the facilities constructed under
the project, and the adequacy of design, technical specifications and drawings. In one city, procurement of
goods and civil works required for the construction of a water treatment facility was split into four separate
contracts. Although it was anticipated that the four contracts would complete the sub-project, the water
treatment facility is not operational and additional work is necessary. The four contracts did not include all
of the equipment and materials, and the work required according to the overall detailed engineering design
drawings did not appear to have been performed. Furthermore, the addition and deletion of various items of
work appear to have occurred during contract execution without appropriate authorization or an assessment
of the overall impact to the project completion and ultimate functionality. None of the contracts seemed to
contain the support drawings for the separate contract work although this was the responsibility of the
consultants.

24.        In another city, a sub-project involved a solid waste disposal facility. Following the design work,
procurement of goods and civil works required for the facility was split into four separate contracts. The
work performed did not appear to be in accordance with the scope of work or technical specifications for any
of the four contracts reviewed. In addition, as constructed, it did not appear that the facility would be
functional upon completion. In this case also, none of the contracts contained the supporting drawings for
the separate contract work, although this was most likely the responsibility of the consultants.

25.        It is not clear whether the practices of splitting contracts were due to: (i) the desire to award
contracts to several contractors for noneconomic reasons; (ii) a practice of limiting bidding to companies
domiciled in the geographical area of works/goods; (iii) inadequate technical capacity in the implementing
agencies; (iv) poor performance of the consultants; (v) weak oversight; and/or (vi) problems with the current
system of budgeting whereby Government counterpart funds are made available on an annual basis and those
funds cannot be carried forward from one year to the next.

26.        Consultants performance: Sul2 UDP included a substantial component for consultants services to
support project implementation and management ($16.2 million or 18% of the net loan commitments
excluding $2 million for training). There were four types of consultants services: (i) project implementation
coordination (PCO) and project implementation support (PIS) consultants to support the Central Government
in overall coordination, technical matters, oversight and monitoring in all areas of project implementation,
including financial management implementation, and regular reporting on the project progress; (ii) provincial
project implementation support (PPIS) consultants in each of the four provinces in Sulawesi to provide
technical expertise to provincial and local governments in project implementation (i.e., in engineering,
financial management, capacity building and operations and management), and report regularly on the
project progress status; and (iii) detailed engineering design and supervision (DED) consultants for roads and
non-roads components of the project in each province to prepare bid documents including bid drawings,
supervise the implementation of works, certify the progressive and final measurements of the completed
sub-projects, and ensure that contracts are completed according to contract specifications. They were also to


                                                         - 68 -

review and suitably endorse the actual physical progress in implementation of the sub-projects in order to
support requests for payments. Despite the very large component for consultants services in the project to
support the agencies responsible for project implementation and coordination at the various levels of the
Government (central, provincial and local governments), the overall conclusion of the fiduciary review team
is that the performance of the consultants has been generally poor. This is amply demonstrated in the four
cities by the amount of missing documentation, poor quality of technical specifications and bid documents,
the lack of or poor verification of the works in the field, issuance of completion certificates for incomplete
works, and weak reporting on the status of project progress.

27.        One consultant firm in one of the two provinces reviewed was required to certify the progress
reports and completion certificates verifying that the work by the contractors had been properly completed.
Site visits indicated instances where the progress reports and completion certificates were not signed by the
consultants, indicating a possible lack of verification that the contracts had been satisfactorily executed prior
to disbursements. The Management Letter attached to the audit report for the fiscal year 2000, received in
December 2001, contain references to lapses in the supervision of the implementation of the project in many
cities, including the four cities covered by the fiduciary review.

28.        The addition and deletion of various items of work during contract implementation allows
contractors to charge for goods provided and civil works performed without the safeguards of a competitive
tendering process. The consultants were to ensure that all scopes of work were fully detailed in the technical
specifications and bid drawings so that after the work was completed, the actual work performed could be
verified. This did not appear to be the case in a majority of the contracts reviewed in detail.

29.        The consultants issued quarterly progress reports entitled "Summary of Program Activities," to
support project implementation at the provincial level. The purpose was to report the rates of progress for
the individual contracts awarded. However, the reports only provided some subjective analysis and overall
conclusions. One section of these reports entitled "Problems and Issues" was generally limited in size; in
several cases, there were a maximum of three sentences under this section. None of the reports referred to
any significant problems in project implementation.

30.        Conclusions on the implementation process: There is little evidence based on a review of the 26
contracts to suggest that an appropriate amount of project oversight was conducted by Government and its
various agencies, and the supervisory and advisory consultants during project implementation in the four
cities reviewed. There were a number of cases where (i) the work performed was not in accordance with the
technical specifications included in the contract; (ii) sub-projects were either not complete or functional; (iii)
there were errors or duplicate entries in the back-up data sheets; (iv) detailed drawings necessary to
determine that the actual work was in accordance with contract requirements, were not complete; and (v) the
contract change orders appear to have been made without appropriate approvals.

31.        The lack of documentation needed to evaluate the implementation process and/or verify the
completion of work prior to releasing payments is a significant problem in the sample of the contracts
reviewed. There is evidence to conclude that some disbursements under the sample of contracts in the four
cities were made without the required supporting evidence of contract completion.

32.        Furthermore, despite the elaborate institutional structure to support and monitor project
implementation at the various levels of the Government and a large contingent of consultants with specific
roles and responsibilities, which include project oversight, there does not seem to be a reporting of the
significant problems observed by this fiduciary review in the sample of contracts in the four cities.




                                                        - 69 -

D. Financial Management

33.        The sample findings of the financial management review indicate that some project-related
disbursements were made in the absence of adequate and appropriate supporting documentation. This
violates a fundamental financial management requirement of Governmental oversight, which is to ensure that
the activities of the Government are auditable. The findings, which lead to this conclusion, are summarized
below.

34.        Completion of civil works contracts: Civil works contracts typically include a detailed list of
sub-components for which estimated volumes and unit prices are specified in the contract and in related
documents. In one city, in each case the fiduciary review team analyzed, the actual volume of works
completed was stated in payment documents to be exactly equal to contracted volumes with respect to each
sub-component activity. The construction of a road, drainage, and a solid waste disposal facility is unlikely
to be exactly in accordance with the estimated quantities contained in the contract, bid documents and the
detailed engineering design drawings. In some cases, the contract change orders appeared to have been
issued recognizing significant variations in actual volumes compared to original contracts. This raises
questions whether the documentation may have been adjusted in order that the actual amounts would match
the amount included in the contract documents, showing that the civil works contracts were completed.

35.        Unsupported project disbursements: In one city, there were numerous instances where
appropriate supporting documentation including the back-up data sheets duly certified by the supervising
consultants was not available to assess the basis for disbursements under the contracts reviewed. As a result,
it was not possible to assess whether the actual work performed was consistent with the contractual scope of
work. According to staff of the auditor, they have estimated that back-up data sheets were not provided for
about 60% of the disbursements under civil works contracts. In these instances, the only document to
support the work done is generally a written statement signed by the concerned project manager or PIMPRO
stating the completion of work.

36.        In one city, in every contract reviewed, appropriate supporting documentation was not provided,
and in each case disbursements appeared to have been made based upon a claim written out on a plain piece
of paper, without the formal, sequentially numbered invoice from the contractor on their letterhead. This is a
financial management weakness, though Central Government guidelines do not specifically require such
documentation. In the same city, contracts relating to a sub-project required the procurement of
goods/equipment. None of the payment vouchers included: (i) the transit or transportation documents for the
delivery of goods received; (ii) the evidence of physical counts being performed to determine quantities
actually received; (iii) documentary evidence of quality or technical capacity verification conducted with
respect to the goods received; and (iv) the manufacturer's warranty documents where the equipment was
branded or procured by the contractors from other manufacturers.

37.         Based on a site visit to a sub-project, none of the four contracts appeared to have been fully
implemented. The contractors and PIMPRO themselves estimated that only 80% of the work had been
completed. However, the financial records seem to indicate that in each of these four contracts 100% of the
contract disbursements had been made. In another contract of Rp. 900 million for a major equipment in the
same city, documents -- the certificate of origin and the manufacturer's warranty  do not appear to have
been submitted in support of the payment claim, even though they were required under the contract. In
addition, it seems that no other documentation was obtained from the manufacturer to substantiate the
specification of the goods supplied. From the disbursement records, it was, therefore, not possible to assess
whether the goods were delivered in accordance with the contract.


                                                       - 70 -

38.        Invoicing by contractors beyond the scope of work performed: A detailed review of
disbursements under a roads contract was undertaken because of the concerns raised by the implementation
review of the contract that the actual was less than that specified by the scope of work. It indicated that
about Rp. 211 million or 17.5% of the value for a roadwork contract might have been invoiced beyond the
scope of work performed. A similar analysis on a drainage contract resulted in similar findings of invoicing
beyond the scope of work performed. Similar cases have been reported in a majority of "kabupatens"
audited by the auditor in one province in their audit reports for the fiscal year 2000, received in December
2001. According to staff of the auditor, their requests for an authorization to further audit a case in one
"kabupaten" have been twice denied. The fiduciary review team did not have access to the documentation
necessary to make such an assessment on a wider sample of the contracts. Supporting documentation for the
completed work was unavailable for review whenever the fiduciary review team made such requests.

39.        A portion of contract payments made to the Regional Government's bank accounts: Financing
of sub-projects in the project includes a Government portion ranging from 10% to 35% under contracts for
civil works and goods, depending upon the actual expenditure category being financed, and a portion from
the Bank loan. In many contracts in every city, the Government's portion of financing did not appear to have
been paid directly to the contractors. It appeared to be a common practice for the Government's portion of
each payment to be made by the Central Treasury (KPKN) to bank accounts in a Regional Development
Bank (BPD), whereas the payments from the Bank loan for the same payment voucher were transferred to
the contractor's account at a private bank. Payment remittances of the Government's portion of contract
financing to these bank accounts specified the contractor as the payee. However, in a few instances, these
bank accounts were held in the name of the Regional Government Treasury. In a few other instances, the
amounts deposited into the BPD account in the name of the Project Treasurer were withdrawn in cash the
same day of the deposit. In one city, none of the payment vouchers issued by the Regional Treasury for the
Government's portion of the contract financing, listed the payee's bank account. Representatives of the
Finance Division of the Regional Administration in that city indicated that it was a "standard" practice to
issue payment vouchers on a "bearer" basis, which could be cashed at the local BPD.

40.        The KPKN representatives explained to the fiduciary review team that the practice of paying the
Government's portion of contract financing to the accounts in BPD is followed at or near the end of the fiscal
year in order that the Central Government funding for the project would not lapse. The rationale being that
the Central Government project funding may not be available if the contract completion was delayed into the
following fiscal year, whereas the regional budgeting systems allowed carry forward of unspent but
committed budgeted expenditures to the next fiscal year. Thus such transfers were made on the basis of
documents that certified full completion of the works, when the works had not have been fully completed. It
was also noted that this practice occurred even at times unrelated to the end of the fiscal year period.

41.         Audits: The auditor did not audit all expenditures under the project in one province as not all
local governments in that province had completed their financial statements for the fiscal year 2000, for
which the audit report was issued in December 2001. As a result, the auditor did not include 6.7% of the
total project expenditures in that province in their financial statement audit. In addition, staff of the auditor
indicated that they were not provided access to the assets and facilities of the project in 11 local governments
for the fiscal year 2000, and, therefore, these locations did not form a part of their audit for that fiscal year,
issued in December 2001. The denial of access to financial records and project facilities of 11 "kabupatens"
is a significant limitation to the scope of any financial audit. Similar limitations to the audit of the project
occurred in the second province for the same fiscal year. In total, the auditor did not include 12% of total
project expenditures in the province in their financial statement audit because not all local governments
permitted an audit of their project financial records, by the auditor appointed by the Central Government. In


                                                       - 71 -

addition, staff of the auditor indicated that they were not provided access to a number of sites for the physical
verification of project implementation.

42.        Such limitations were noted in a Management Letter, appended to the audit report for the fiscal
year 2000, received in December 2001. The consolidated audit report also contained a qualified audit
opinion. The audit report also reported that many of the matters raised in the previous year's audit reports
had still not been resolved as of July 2001. This included matters dating back to the 1998/99 audit.

43.        Financial issues relating to payments to selected consultants: In one large consultant contract,
the out-of-pocket expenses claimed by the consultants were not consistently supported and, in some
instances, the utility bills attached to the invoices were visibly altered. It appears that the out-of-pocket
expenses were invoiced beyond those actually incurred under the contract concerned (approximately Rp. 352
million or 55% of the total reimbursable expenses did not appear to have been supported by documentation).


44.        In a different province, invoices for only four billing periods were provided with respect to a
consultants contract for the fiscal year 2000. A set of photocopies of the supporting documents appeared to
be a random selection and was not related to the four invoices in question. The fiduciary review team could
not obtain further documents from the implementing agency. In the same province, invoices and payment
vouchers were provided with respect to another consultants contract for the period between March 1998 and
December 2000. Disbursements for about 70% of the items reviewed under this contract (e.g., mobilization
and demobilization, staff travel, office, field and lab expenses, housing allowances, and report preparation
costs, etc.) seem to have been made without supporting documentation.

45.        Other significant financial risks observed during the fiduciary review include the following: (i)
retention money was released before the end of the retention period without adequate explanation; (ii) the
payee bank accounts were common to more than one contractor/supplier; (iii) payments were made at times
to accounts different from those in the contract without proper authorization from the concerned
contractor/supplier; (iv) disbursement approvals were made by junior staff or senior government officials,
under a single signature authority; (v) limitations were placed by government agencies on the scope of audit
by the appointed auditor; and (vi) the weaknesses noted in the audit reports with respect to the project's
procurement, implementation or financial management were not followed up effectively.

46.        Conclusions on financial management: The payment of the Government's portion of financing
under the project to an account in the name of the Project Treasurer, in the cities covered by the fiduciary
review, is disturbing. In addition, the ultimate disbursement of those funds in cash is a weak fiduciary
practice. This is inconsistent with the fundamental financial management principles that Government
transactions must be supported by appropriate and auditable documentation.

47.        Following presentation of the findings of this review to the Government of Indonesia, the Bank and
the Government have been jointly discussing the following:

   Implications and actions related to the contracts specifically reviewed in the four cities.
   Implications and actions for the project contractors and agencies.
   Other lessons and possible actions.

The Bank has also recommend that the findings of this review be made public; a summary of it was posted
on the World Bank-Indonesia website.




                                                        - 72 -

Additional Annex 14. Comments Received from GOI and Other Participants




                                       - 73 -

- 74 -

- 75 -

- 76 -

- 77 -

- 78 -

