Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4105 IND
                               Loan Agreement
                 (Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 15, 1997
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4105 IND
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Annual Project Implementation Plan" means the annual action
plan adopted jointly by a Project Province and a Participating Local
Government and its respective PDAM (as hereinafter defined), pursuant
to the provisions of Part A.1 (b)(ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (b)  "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning Agency of
Page  2
the Borrower and includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (c)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower or the
fiscal year of a Participating Local Government (as hereinafter
defined), both commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
     (d)  "Implementing Agencies" means the central, provincial and
local agencies, departments and units responsible for Project
implementation and coordination referred to under Part B of Schedule
5 to this Agreement, and "Implementing Agency" means any of the
Implementing Agencies;
     (e)  "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower
and includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (f)  "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (g)  "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower
and includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (h)  "Participating Local Government" means any of the local
governments listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Participating PDAM" means a PDAM, as hereinafter defined,
operating in a Participating Local Government and listed in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
     (j)  "PDAM" means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a water enterprise,
established by and operating in the jurisdiction of a Participating
Local Government pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Law No.
5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of MHA, and Joint
Decree of MHA No. 3 of 1984 and MPW No. 269 of KPTS of 1984, as any of
the same may be amended from time to time;
     (k)  "PDAM fiscal year" means the fiscal year of any of the
Participating PDAMs commencing January 1 and ending December 31;
     (l)  "Performance Indicators" means the technical, physical,
financial and social indicators, included in the Annual Project
Implementation Plans, to monitor the performance of Participating
Local Governments and PDAMs pursuant to the provisions of Part
C.2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (m)  "PPMU" means the Provincial Project Management Unit to be
established within Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Propinsi Daerah Tingkat I
(DPUP I), the provincial office of public works in each Project
Province, in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
     (n)  "Project Affected Persons" means persons who on account of
the execution of Part A.1 of the Project had or would have their: (i)
standard of living adversely affected; or  (ii) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently, adversely affected; or (iii)
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, and "Project Affected Person" means individually all those
who qualify as Project Affected Persons;
     (o)  "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's Provinces of North
Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, South-East Sulawesi and South Sulawesi,
and "Project Province" means any of the Project Provinces;
     (p)  "Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum" means the
memorandum of understanding agreed between the Borrower and a Project
Province pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement, as such Memorandum may be amended from time to time in
agreement with the Bank, and "Provincial Program Implementation
Memoranda" means collectively the memoranda of understanding agreed
between the Borrower and all Project Provinces;
Page  3
     (q)  "Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by any Participating
Local Government or Participating PDAM pursuant to the Resettlement
Guidelines, as hereinafter defined;
     (r)  "Resettlement Guidelines" means the framework describing
procedural and institutional aspects pertaining to land acquisition
and the resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation of Project
Affected Persons under the Project, approved by: (i) the Provincial
Governor of North Sulawesi pursuant to SK Gub No. 266-a/96, dated
August 22, 1996; (ii) the Provincial Governor of Central Sulawesi
pursuant to SK Gub No. 05/96, dated April 16, 1996; (iii) the
Provincial Governor of South-East Sulawesi pursuant to SK Gub No.
387/96, dated September 10, 1996; and (iv) the Provincial Governor
of South Sulawesi pursuant to SK Gub No. 430/96, dated August 22,
1996, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agree-
ment with the Bank;
     (s)  "Rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (t)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (u)  "Sub-project" means a specific infrastructure investment
project described under Part A.1 of the Project;
     (v)  "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower to a Participating Local Government or a Participating
PDAM under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (w)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" (SLAs) means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower, represented by MOF, and
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs, pursuant to
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
(SLA) means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
     (x)  "UKL/UPL" means the environmental management and monitoring
plans prepared by each Project Province in accordance with the
Borrower's national guidelines for environmental assessment and
mitigation established by Government Regulation No.51/1993 of the
Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of one hundred fifty-five million dollars ($155,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in
a state commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund:
               (A)  the Bank's investments; and
               (B)  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                    1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                    than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
               months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
               the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
               of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii)   'Quarter' means a three-month period
               commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
               in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
Page  5
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and environmental practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The Borrower shall make available out of the
proceeds of the Loan the amounts allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement to Participating Local Governments and Participating
PDAMs under subsidiary loan agreements entered into between the
Borrower and each Participating Local Government, and the Borrower
and each Participating PDAM, all under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the following
principal terms and conditions: (i) the principal amount of each
Subsidiary Loan repayable to the Borrower shall be the Rupiah
equivalent at the time of withdrawal of such proceeds from the Loan
Account; (ii) the interest on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding of a Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at a fixed annual
rate of 11.75%; (iii) a commitment charge shall be payable on the
amount so on-lent but not yet withdrawn from time to time at the
effective rate applicable to the Loan in accordance with Section
2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) the repayment period of each
Subsidiary Loan shall be up to twenty (20) years, including a grace
period of up to five (5) years.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Participating Local Governments, on a grant basis, the
amount allocated from time to time to Categories (2), (4), (5) and (6)
of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in
accordance with terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall enter into a provincial program
implementation memorandum with each Project Province on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including those set forth in
Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and the Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of the Provincial
Program Implementation Memoranda or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
Page  6
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower, including the Participating PDAMs, responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that:
          (i)  each Participating PDAM shall not incur any debt unless
               a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures
               of such Participating PDAM shows that the projected
               net revenues of such Participating PDAM for each PDAM
               fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred
               shall be at least 1.3 times the projected debt service
               requirement of such Participating PDAM in such year,
               the previous PDAM fiscal year and the next PDAM fiscal
               year on all debt of such PDAM including the debt to be
               incurred; and
Page  7
         (ii)  each Participating PDAM produces for each of its fiscal
               years (A) through January 1, 1999, gross revenues from
               all sources equivalent to not less than its operating
               expenses, and (B) after January 1, 1999, gross revenues
               from all sources equivalent to not less than the sum of
               its operating expenses and depreciation.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Participating
               PDAM maturing by its terms more than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under a loan contract or agreement or other
                    instrument providing for such debt or further
                    modification of its terms of payment, on the
                    date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                    and
               (B)  under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                    agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                    entered into.
        (iii)  The term "net revenues of such Participating PDAM"
               means gross revenues of a Participating PDAM from
               all sources, adjusted to take account of such
               Participating PDAM's tariffs in effect at the time
               of the incurrence of debt even though they were
               not in effect during the twelve-month period to which
               such revenues related, less all operating expenses of
               such Participating PDAM, including expenses account-
               able to administration, maintenance and taxes (or
               payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for
               depreciation of assets and interest and other charges
               on debt.
         (iv)  The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
               if any) of, and interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by a Participating PDAM in the PDAM fiscal year in which
               the debt in question is to be incurred, which both the
               Bank and the Participating PDAM accept as reasonable and
               as to which the Bank has notified the Participating PDAM
               of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
               since such notification which has, or may reasonably be
               expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
               on the financial condition or future operating results
               of such Participating PDAM.
         (vi)  The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired
               paid-up capital. retained earnings and reserves of a
               Participating PDAM not allocated to cover specific
               liabilities.
        (vii)  The term "gross revenues from all sources" means the sum
               of revenues from all sources related to water operation,
               house connections, and cash consumer contributions in aid
               of construction, but excluding non-operating income and
               any other cash inflows.
       (viii)  The term "operating expenses" means the sum of all
               expenses related to water operations, including
               maintenance and administration, but excluding depre-
               ciation.
         (ix)  The term "depreciation" means the annual provision
               charged against revenues to depreciate, on a basis
               acceptable to the Bank, the current value of the water
Page  8
               fixed assets in operation as valued from time to time
               in accordance with methods of valuation satisfactory
               to the Bank.
          (x)  Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of Rupiah, debt payable in
               another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
               basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
               such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
               with the absence of such rate on the basis of a rate of
               exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all such
action as shall be necessary to enable each Participating PDAM to adjust
its tariffs by not later than September 30, 1997, and thereafter every
two years by September 30, to meet the requirements of said Section.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no Participating Local Government shall
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expen-
ditures of such Participating Local Government shows that the projected
non-grant and local revenues for a Fiscal Year minus the projected
routine account expenditure on staff administration and routine
operational and maintenance needs of such Participating Local Govern-
ment for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt to be incurred
shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement of
such Participating Local Government in such year on all debt of such
Participating Local Government including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Participating
               Local Government maturing by its terms more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under a loan contract or agreement or other
                    instrument providing for such debt or further
                    modification of its terms of payment, on the
                    date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                    and
               (B)  under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                    agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                    entered into.
        (iii)  The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
               if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (iv)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by a Participating Local Government in the Fiscal Year
               in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which
               both the Bank and the Participating Local Government
               accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
               notified the Participating Local Government of its
               acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
               such notification which has, or may reasonably be
               expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
               on the financial condition or operating results of such
               Participating Local Government.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of Rupiah, debt payable in
               another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
               basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
               such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purpose of servicing such debt, or,
               with the absence of such rate on the basis of a rate of
Page  9
               exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                                   ARTICLE V
                              Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Borrower or any of the Project Provinces
will be able to perform any of its respective obligations under the
Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda; and
     (b)  the Resettlement Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement or the ability of the Project Provinces to perform any of
their obligations under the Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the events
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda have been duly approved by
all relevant authorities and executed by the Borrower and the Project
Provinces.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Provincial Program Implementation Memoranda have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Provinces and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Provinces in accordance with their terms; and
     (b)  that the Resettlement Guidelines have been duly approved by
the Project Provinces and all necessary actions have been taken to
enable the Resettlement Guidelines to be implemented in accordance
with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
               Ministry of Finance
               c/o Directorate General of Budget
               Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
               P. O. Box 1139
               Jakarta 10710
Page  10
               Indonesia
               Cable address:                Telex:
                    FINMINSTRY               45799 DJMLN-IA
                    JAKARTA                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
               International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America
               Cable address:                Telex:
                    INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
                    Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                         By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                     Amount of the
                                    Loan Allocated        % of
                                   (Expressed Dollar   Expenditures
     Category                         Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for Sub-projects,                    90%
     financed under SLAs:
     (a)  North Sulawesi               3,300,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi             4,600,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi          5,000,000
Page  11
     (d)  South Sulawesi              13,300,000
(2)  Other civil works:                               45%
     (a)  North Sulawesi              11,200,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi             6,300,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi         11,900,000
     (d)  South Sulawesi              44,900,000
(3)  Goods for Sub-projects,                          90%
     including specialized
     vehicles, financed
     under SLAs:
     (a)  North Sulawesi                300,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi              400,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi           300,000
     (d)  South Sulawesi              2,100,000
(4)  Other goods, including                          100% of foreign ex-
     specialized vehicles:                           penditures, 100% of
                                                     local expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory cost) and
                                                     65% of other items
                                                     procured locally
     (a)  North Sulawesi             2,500,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi           1,700,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi        1,500,000
     (d)  South Sulawesi            15,000,000
(5)  Engineering Services:                           100%
     (a)  North Sulawesi             1,400,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi           1,400,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi        1,400,000
     (d)  South Sulawesi             5,600,000
(6)  Training:                                       100%
     (a)  North Sulawesi               300,000
     (b)  Central Sulawesi             300,000
     (c)  South-East Sulawesi          300,000
     (d)  South Sulawesi             1,100,000
(7) Implementation                   7,500,000       80%
    Support Services
(8) Unallocated                     11,400,000
                                    __________
     TOTAL                         155,000,000
                                   ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "specialized vehicles" means arm-roll trucks,
compactor trucks and sludge removal trucks.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) with respect to expenditures
incurred by a Participating Local Government and its respective
Participating PDAM, unless the Bank: (i) has approved the first Annual
Project Implementation Plan for such Participating Local Government and
such Participating PDAM, which shall have been adopted in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment; and (ii) has received documentary evidence satisfactory to it
confirming that the PPMUs have been established in accordance with the
provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  Categories (1) and (3) with respect to expenditures incurred
under a Sub-project, unless: (i) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Local Government
or between the Borrower and a Participating PDAM; and (ii) the Bank
has approved the first Subsidiary Loan Agreement for such Participating
Local Government or such Participating PDAM, which shall have been
entered into in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
     (a)  (i)  the first contract for goods and the first contract for
works to be entered into by any of the Implementing Agencies, and,
thereafter, (ii) contracts for goods costing less than $200,000
equivalent, and civil works costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent;
and
     (b)  contracts for: (i) the employment of consulting firms costing
less than $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) the employment of individual
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve the delivery of urban
infrastructure services by Participating Local Governments and Parti-
cipating PDAMs on a sustainable basis.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Infrastructure Works
1.   Carrying out a five-year program of high-priority infrastructure
investment projects for Participating Local Governments and Parti-
cipating PDAMs in the following sub-sectors:
     (a)  urban planning;
     (b)  water supply;
Page  13
     (c)  human waste disposal and sanitation;
     (d)  drainage and flood control;
     (e)  urban roads;
     (f)  solid waste management;
     (g)  improvement of conditions in low-income communities and
rehabilitation of urban neighborhoods;
     (h)  urban infrastructure renewal, including rehabilitation of
markets and transport terminals; and
     (i)  engineering design and supervision.
2.   Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under
Part A.1 above.
Part B:   Local Government Development
1.   Improving the municipal and environmental management and services
delivery capabilities of the staff of Participating Local Governments
and Participating PDAMs, through the provision of support services and
training.
2.   Improving the capabilities of the Borrower's provincial and local
Implementing Agencies to plan, manage and finance Sub-project prepara-
tion and implementation, through the provision of support services.
3.   Development and implementation of an action plan to:
     (a) enhance, wherever possible, private sector participation in
the delivery of urban services; and
     (b) strengthen, whenever possible, active involvement of local
communities and other Project stakeholders  in the design and
implementation of Project activities through the  provision of
support services and training.
                   *                   *                   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                          ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                Participating Local Governments and PDAMs
     NORTH SULAWESI
1.   Kotamadya Bitung
2.   Kabupaten Minahasa
3.   Kabupaten Bolaang Mongondow
4.   Kabupaten Sangihe Talud
5.   Kabupaten Gorontalo
6.   Kotamadya Gorontalo
7.   Kotamadya Manado
     CENTRAL SULAWESI
8.   Kabupaten Banggai
9.   Kabupaten Donggala
10.  Kabupaten Buol Toli Toli
11.  Kotamadya Palu (no PDAM)
12.  Kabupaten Poso
     SOUTH-EAST SULAWESI
13.  Kabupaten Buton
14.  Kabupaten Kolaka
15.  Kabupaten Muna
Page  14
16.  Kabupaten Kendari
17.  Kotamadya Kendari
     SOUTH SULAWESI
18.  Kabupaten Gowa
19.  Kabupaten Pinrang
20.  Kabupaten Wajo
21.  Kabupaten Tana Toraja
22.  Kabupaten Majene
23.  Kabupaten Sidrap
24.  Kabupaten Bantaeng
25.  Kabupaten Barru
     SOUTH SULAWESI
26.  Kabupaten Selayar
27.  Kabupaten Jeneponto
28.  Kabupaten Bulukumba
29.  Kabupaten Enrekang
30.  Kabupaten Mamuju
31.  Kabupaten Maros
32.  Kabupaten Luwu
33.  Kabupaten Pangkep
34.  Kotamadya Pare Pare
35.  Kabupaten Polmas
36.  Kabupaten Sinjai
37.  Kabupaten Takalar
38.  Kotamadya Ujung Pandang (no PDAM)
39.  Kabupaten Soppeng (no PDAM)
40.  Kabupaten Bone
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     Expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 2002                             3,015,000
December 15, 2002                         3,120,000
June 15, 2003                             3,230,000
December 15, 2003                         3,345,000
June 15, 2004                             3,460,000
December 15, 2004                         3,580,000
June 15, 2005                             3,705,000
December 15, 2005                         3,830,000
June 15, 2006                             3,965,000
December 15, 2006                         4,100,000
June 15, 2007                             4,245,000
December 15, 2007                         4,390,000
June 15, 2008                             4,545,000
December 15, 2008                         4,700,000
June 15, 2009                             4,865,000
December 15, 2009                         5,035,000
June 15, 2010                             5,210,000
December 15, 2010                         5,390,000
June 15, 2011                             5,575,000
December 15, 2011                         5,770,000
June 15, 2012                             5,970,000
December 15, 2012                         6,175,000
June 15, 2013                             6,390,000
December 15, 2013                         6,615,000
June 15, 2014                             6,840,000
December 15, 2014                         7,080,000
June 15, 2015                             7,325,000
December 15, 2015                         7,580,000
June 15, 2016                             7,840,000
December 15, 2016                         8,110,000
__________________________
Page  15
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be
prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                     Premium
                             The interest rate (expressed as a
                             percentage per annum) applicable to
                             the Loan on the day of prepayment
                             multiplied by:
Not more than three years              0.15     before maturity
More than three years but              0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not             0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not             0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before              1.00
     maturity
                               SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
          The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
     and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
     territory of the Borrower.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
Page  16
          The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract
     estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be
     advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to
     large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,600,000 equi-
valent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply with respect to:
     (a)  (i)  the first contract for works; and (ii) the first contract
for goods to be entered into by any of the Implementing Agencies; and
     (b)  thereafter, each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
Page  17
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to:
     (a)  contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
     (b)  contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
          (i)  the terms of reference for such contracts;
         (ii)  single-source selection of consulting firms;
        (iii)  assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined
               by the Bank;
         (iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
               firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
               or above; or
          (v)  amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
               consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
               valent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
Part A:   Implementation Arrangements
1.   Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum
     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Provincial Project
Implementation Memorandum shall, inter alia, include the following
undertakings:
     (a)  The Borrower shall designate each Project Province as
principal Implementing Agency in its respective jurisdiction.
     (b)  (i)  The Project Province shall declare its commitment to
               the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
               2 to this Agreement and to this end shall carry out
               its respective Parts of the Project with due diligence
               and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
               administrative, financial, engineering, environmental
               and resettlement practices, and shall provide, or cause
               to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
               facilities, services and other resources required for
               such Parts by the Participating Local Governments and
               Participating PDAMs under its jurisdiction.
         (ii)  To this end, the Project Province shall take all such
               action as shall be necessary to ensure that by not
               later than April 15 in each year until the completion
               of the Project, an annual project implementation plan
               (Annual Project Implementation Plan) is jointly adopted
               by the Project Province, each Participating Local
Page  18
               Government and each Participating PDAM, in accordance
               with model terms and conditions which shall have been
               approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, a
               description of Sub-projects, to be carried out there-
               under operations and maintenance programs, institutional
               capacity development programs under its Sub-projects and
               its activities under Part B of the Project and Per-
               formance Indicators for the upcoming year.
     (c)  The Project Province, through its Directorate of Public Works
(DPUP I), shall ensure that procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for its Sub-projects and its activities
under Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The Project Province shall cause the Participating Local
Governments and Participating PDAMs to use the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for the purposes
of the Project.
     (e)  The Borrower and the Project Province shall closely monitor
the implementation of all proposed activities, and shall inspect, from
time to time, the goods, works and services under its Sub-projects and
its activities under Part B of the Project, including all records and
documents relating thereto.
     (f)  The Project Province shall cause Participating Local Govern-
ments and Participating PDAMs to promptly inform the Project Province
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Sub-projects and their activities under Part B of the
Project and ensure that appropriate corrective measures are taken by
the relevant Participating Local Governments.
     (g)  The Borrower and  the Project Province shall:
          (i)  from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower,
               the Project Province or the Bank, exchange views with
               the Participating Local Governments and Participating
               PDAMs regarding progress achieved in carrying out their
               Sub-projects and their activities under Part B of the
               Project; and
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank all such information and documents
               related thereto as may reasonably be requested.  The
               Project Province shall further agree to obtain such
               information and documents from Participating Local
               Government or Participating PDAMs as may be required
               by the Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring,
               recording and reporting obligations to the Bank.
2.   Sub-projects
     In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause the Project Provinces to:
     (a)  select Sub-projects to be financed under the Project using
technical, environmental and economic criteria satisfactory to the
Bank. Such criteria shall include:
          (i)  each Sub-project shall be prepared by the respective
               Participating Local Government or Participating PDAMs
               in accordance with general technical guidelines
               approved by the Bank and attached to the Provincial
               Project Implementation Memorandum;
         (ii)  for each Sub-project in the water supply and drainage
               and flood control sub-sectors, referred to under Parts
               A.1 (c) and A.1 (e) of the Project and estimated to
               cost two billion Rupiah or more, a minimum economic
               rate of return of twelve (12%) percent shall be
               required;
Page  19
        (iii)  for each Sub-project involving the involuntary
               resettlement of any Project Affected Persons, a
               Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared in
               accordance with the Resettlement Guidelines and
               in consultation with said Project Affected Persons,
               and such Resettlement Action Plan has been furnished
               to the Bank for approval; and
         (iv)  for each Sub-project, the UKL/UPL requirements have
               been completed pursuant to terms and conditions which
               shall have been approved by the Bank;
     (b)  ensure that Participating Local Governments and Participating
PDAMs furnish to the PPMU, in each Project Province, for its review and
approval by not later than October 15 of each year until completion of
the Project, a list of proposed Sub-projects to be financed under the
Project during the next year, together with all supporting documenta-
tion, all in accordance with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph
(a) above; and
     (c)  promptly after receiving PPMU's approval thereof, cause the
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs to carry out
their respective Sub-projects in accordance with procedures and guide-
lines issued by PPMU.
Part B:   Implementing Agencies
     Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall be vested
in the Implementing Agencies as follows:
1.   The Borrower
     (a)  MPW through its Directorate General of Human Settlements
(Cipta Karya) shall be the executing agency responsible for the
overall technical supervision and management of Project implemen-
tation. Cipta Karya shall delegate day-to-day management respon-
sibilities to the Project Provinces.
     (b)  BAPPENAS shall be responsible for ensuring close coordination
of Project activities among MOF, MPW, MHA, the Project Provinces,
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs.
     (c)  The Directorate General of Financial Institutions in MOF
shall be responsible for the execution, enforcement and supervision
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
2.   Project Provinces
     (a)  Each Project Province shall be responsible for the overall
coordination and monitoring of Project implementation and to this
end, shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout Project
implementation a provincial project management unit (PPMU) with
competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers. The PPMU shall be
headed by a qualified and experienced full-time Project Manager who
shall work closely with the Provincial Development Planning Agency
(BAPPEDA I) and other relevant agencies.
     (b)  The PPMU shall be responsible for:
          (i)  overall management of the Project;
         (ii)  reviewing and approving proposed Sub-projects;
        (iii)  issuing standard operating procedures, which shall be
               attached to the Provincial Project Implementation
               Memorandums and related guidelines for the implemen-
               tation of Sub-projects by Participating Local Govern-
               ments and Participating PDAMs;
         (iv)  planning, contracting and monitoring of consultants'
               services financed under the Project; and
Page  20
          (v)  monitoring implementation of approved Sub-projects.
3.   Participating Local Governments
     (a)  Each Participating Local Government shall be responsible for
coordination and monitoring of the implementation of Sub-projects
carried out by such Participating Local Government and its respective
Participating PDAM.
     (b)  The Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Kabupaten/Kotamadya (DUPK II), the
local office of public works in each Participating Local Government,
shall be responsible, in close cooperation with the Development
Planning Agency (BAPPEDA II) for overall supervision of Sub-projects,
including programming and planning of civil works under such Sub-
projects.
     (c)  The Bupati or Walikotamadya of each Participating Local
Government shall assign, and thereafter maintain throughout Project
implementation, a qualified and experienced technical officer in such
Participating Local Government which shall carry out day-to-day
coordination activities, including preparation and dissemination of
consolidated progress reports.
     (d)  The DPUP I shall be responsible for managing its respective
Sub-projects and, to this end, shall appoint and thereafter maintain,
a qualified and experienced Sub-project Manager for each of said Sub-
projects.
Part C:   Implementation Actions
1.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause the Project Provinces, through their respective
Provincial Inspectorate, to carry out every year until the completion
of the Project, commencing not later than October 31, 1997, annual
technical audits, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, for Project
quality assurance, including, achievement of Project objectives
pursuant to the Performance Indicators, performance of civil works
and consultants' contracts, provision of compensation under the
Resettlement Action Plans, and procurement of goods, works and
services financed under Project; and
     (b)  promptly after completion of the said audits, furnish to the
Bank the recommendations submitted as part of said audits.
2.   The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Provinces to:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the
Borrower and the Project Provinces to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators satisfac-
tory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  not later than July 31 of each year, until the completion
of the Project, furnish to the Bank a report in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, including, inter alia:  (i) an
evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower and the Project
Provinces in Project implementation pursuant to the Performance
Indicators; and  (ii) draft Annual Project Implementation Plans
and SLAs proposed for the upcoming year;
     (c)  not later than October 31 of each year, until the completion
of the Project, and on the basis of the above reports, carry out
annual Project implementation reviews to inter alia: (i) evaluate
progress achieved by the Borrower in general, and by the Project
Provinces in particular, in carrying out the Project, including the
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plans; (ii) evaluate per-
formance of the Participating Local Governments and Participating
PDAMs, under the Annual Project Implementation Plans and SLAs during
the previous year and review the recommendations made by the Project
Provinces on Annual Project Implementation Plans and SLAs proposed
for the upcoming year; (iii) assess the level of expenditures
Page  21
incurred by Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs
to finance the costs of operations and maintenance of infrastructure
financed under the Project, during the previous year and the
allocations proposed for the upcoming year; (iv) discuss and exchange
views on all other related activities financed by other donor
agencies; (v) exchange information among Implementing Agencies and
propose solutions to any current implementation issue; and
     (d)  promptly after completing the annual reviews take all
measures required to ensure efficient implementation of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the con-
clusions and recommendations of the said annual reviews and the
Bank's views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $ 5,000,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
Page  22
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
               Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
               the Bank:
               (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                    may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                    Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
                    amount equal to the amount of such payment or
                    the portion thereof not so eligible or
                    justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
                    agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                    the Special Account shall be made until the
                    Borrower has provided such evidence or made
                    such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  23
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
