Doument Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
<v.K 'P)>Y  -
Report No. P-4414-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt100.0 MILLION
TO THE NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATES OF MALAYA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA
FOR THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Ringgit (M$)
Average 1985                      June 1986
US$1 =  M$2.48                  US$1 =  M$2.50
M$1 = US$0.40                   M$1 = US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia
January 1-December 31
National Electricity Board
September 1-August 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km        =   Kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg        =   Kilogram (2.205 pounds)
Ton       =   Metric ton (1,000 kilograms)
kW        =   Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW        =   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kVA            Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA       =   Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kWh       -   Kilowatt hour (860 kilo calories)
GWh       =   Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kV        =   Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
BTU           British Thermal Unit (0.253 kilo calories)
MMBTU     =   Million BTU
b/d       =   Barrels per day (1 barrel = 159 liters)
TOE       =   Tons of oil equivalent
MMTOE     =   Million TOE
MMCFD     =   Million cubic feet per day
tcf       =   Trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
EPU       -   Economic Planning Unit
LRMC      -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MOE       -   Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts
NEB       -   National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya
PETRONAS  -   National Petroleum Agency
PGSB      -   Petronas Gas Sdn. Berhad
SEB       -   Sabah Electricity Board
SESCO     -   Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
ENERCY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya (NEB)
Guarantor:     Malaysia
Amount:        US$100 million equivalent
Terms:         15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description: With the recent sharp decline in foreign exchange earnings,
Malaysia is facing severe resource constraints. In this
environment, NEB's im ediate concern is to maximize the opera-
tional efficiency of its existing facilities and optimize its
use of the country's energy resources. The proposed project
seeks to achieve these objectives, through emphasis on improv-
ing the efficiency of thermal power stations, replacing oil
with natural gas as the primary fuel for power generation,
introducing a more effective maintenance management system for
thermal and hydro power plants, rationalizing the transmission
system, modernizing system operation and control, and further-
ing specific institutional capabilities.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation of 1,290 MW of plant
at Tuanku Jaafar, Prai and Sultan Iskandar thermal power sta-
tions; (b) conversion of 600 NW plant at Tuanku Jaafar and
240 KW plant at Sultan Iskandar from oil to oil/gas firing;
(c) introduction of computerized maintenance management systems
at all major thermal and hydro stations; (d) modernization of
the national load dispatch center; (e) installation of regional
distribution control centers at Penang, Johor Baru and Klang;
(f) installation of about 72 km of 275 kV and 132 kY trans-
mission lines and nine 275/132/33 kV and 132/33 kV substations,
needed for rationalizing the power supply system for Kuala
Lumpur and its environs; and (h) technical assistance to
strengthen NEB's capabilities in: Ci) distribution system
planning, (ii) management services, (iii) materials management,
(iv) fixed assets accounting, and (v) human resources
development.
The project is expected to contribute significant benefits in
the form of (a) fuel savings; (b) increased capacity, better
availability and prolonged plant life; (c) more efficient and
reliable system dispatch and control; (d) reduced losses and
greater transmission reliability; and (e) enhanced institu-
tional efficiency.
The project faces no substantial risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: /a
Local   Foreign  Total
--- (US$ milLion) 
Thermal power plant rehabilitation                      3.2      13.3     16.5
Thermal power plant conversion
from oil to oillgas firing                           2.6     10.6      13.2
Computerized maintenance management
system for thermal & hydro stations                   0.6      1.0       1.6
System control improvements                             3.6     20.1      23.7
Transmission system rationalization                    36.1     42.6      78.7
Consultancy services for: thermal plant
rehabilitation, distribution system planning,
materials management, management services,
fixed assets accounting, and human
resources development                                 1.1      4.4       5.5
Total Base Cost                               47.2      92.0    139.2
Physical contingencies                                  4.7       9.2     13.9
Price contingencies                                     2.3      4.6       6.9
Total Project Cost                            54.2    105.8    160.0
Interest during construction
Bank loan                                              -      20.5      20.5
Others
Total Financing Required                      54.2    126.3    180.5
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign    Total       Percent
Source of funds              ---       ( USs million) -
World Bank                       0           100.0       100.0          55
NEB                            54.2           26.3        80.5          45
Total                     54.2           126.5       180.5         100
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY                          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
---------------- (USs million) -----------…   =
Annual                            1.0   16.0   26.0   22.0   15.0   11.0       9.0
Cumulative                        1.0   17.0   43.0   65.0   80.0   91.0   100.0
/a NEB is exempt from liability for import duties and taxes on the project.



- iii -
Rate of Return:
NEB's investment program                         12%
Thermal plant rehabilitation and
maintenance management                        20%
Transmission system for rationalizing
supply to Kualia Lumpur                       14%
Conversion from oil to gas firing             >100%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6373-MA, dated November 25, 1986
Map: IBRD 20157.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD OF THE STATES OF MALAYA WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA FOR THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT
REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in the amount of US$100.0 million to the National Electricity Board of the
States of Malaya, with the guarantee of Malaysia, to help finance the Energy
Efficiency and Plant Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I!
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Industrializing a Primary
Producer" (No. 5908-MA), is dated June 1986. Recent economic data are
contained in Annex 1.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,980 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita CDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world eco"7my good economic
and financial management; and, stable social and politic^. nstitutions.
Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial attention and
priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high productivity gains
in the sector which have cushioned it against occasional steep price declines;
second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a., in the last
two decades, following first an import-substituting pattern, but later
increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open economy, with
exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of GDP, exports have
diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm
oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55Z of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities. The incidence of poverty covered all ethnic groups, but
was disproportionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes
If   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Western Johor Agricultural Development Project (Report No.
P-4360-MA, dated June 19, 1986), approved by the Board of Executive
Directors on July 15, 1986.



were only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government
declared a New Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment,
and ownership of assets. By 1983, considerable progress had been made in
reducing the number of households living below the poverty line, particularly
in rural areas. In addition, there has been substantial progress towards
reducing interracial disparities in income and asset ownership.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has joined agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and
exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cutting
edge of industrial growth. In par-icular, there has been a remarkable and
dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin prodtuction
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction, and was severeLy disrupted recently by the
suspension of international tin trading. Although timber production has
recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental
environmental consequences, and the Government has restricted logging in
Peninsular Malaysia. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In the tree crops sector,
for example, production growth is being pursued through productivity and
efficiency gains rather than increased acreage. As for food crops, further
growth in rice production may well prove to be uneconomic and entail consider-
ably higher subsidies than the rice sector already receives. It is therefore
appropriate that the Government has moved gradually away from its previously
proclaimed goal of rice self-sufficiency and is emphasizing greater crop
diversification.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 13% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession. the Covernment introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance



- 3 -
of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 12% of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of cNP. Overall, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and
inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowings were largely
noninflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company
and the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to CNP grew
from about 37% to nearly 48% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of
the deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt more than doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32% of
GNP); there was, in addition, an important shift in the sotL'rces of borrowing,
away from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the Low
levels of external borrowing in the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82
period did not give rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
exports, debt service on private, public and publicly guaranteed MLT debt was
15.3% at the end of 1985.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 was recognized by the Government, and a policy of expenditure
restraint was implemented through 1983-85 and affirmed in the 1986 budget.
The overall pubLic sector deficit declined substantially from 17% of CNP in
1982 to 10% in 1984. Both the Government and public enterprises registered
equally sharp adjustments. In 1983 and 1984, federal government development
expenditures declined by 16% and 11%, respectively, and the federal government
budgetary deficit feLl from almost 18% of GNP to 62. The reduction in the
deficit of public enterprises, on the other hand, came about from substantial
increases in internal savings which more than absorbed a continued expansion
in development expeaditures. To some extent, the impact on the external
account of the shrinking public sector deficit was offset by privA ae invest-
ment expenditures which rose by 17% in real terms during 1983-84.-
Nonetheless, the balance of payments current account deficit improved
considerably from 14% of GNP in 1982 to 5% in 1984.
9.        Malaysia's growth performance in 1985 was its worst in over two
decades. Real CDP fell by 1.0% under the combined weight of continued adjust-
ments in public sector expenditures, lower international commodity prices,
stagnant exports of manufactures and higher interest payments on external
debt. On the other hand, the public sector succeeded in cutting its overall
deficit further to 6.8% of GNP, and the external current account deficit
followed suit by shrinking to 2.5% of CNP. The slack pace of domestic econo-
mic activity and the consequent closures or cutbacks in the manufacturing,
2/   This was largely the consequence of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies classified as part of the private sector in the national
accounts.  According to the Government's classification, nonfinancial
public enterprises Like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the
heavy industry corporation) are not included as part of the public sector
in the national accounts.



- 4 -
mining and construction sectors added substantially to the unemployed. In
response, the Covernment introduced modest reflationary measures including a
major new low-cost housing scheme to be implemented over the next three years.
10.       Nineteen eighty six marked the beginning of Malaysia's fifth five-
year plan with its objective of generating a pattern and pace of economic
growth that would create sufficient employment opportunities for its expanding
labor force and yet be consistent with a prudent level of external debt.
However, the precipitous fall in international prices of petroleum and palm
oil, and possibilities of only a modest recovery over the medium term, has
unequivocally altered Malaysia's resource position and given it considerably
less room in which to maneuver. Though the internal and external balance are
likely to deteriorate this year, Malaysia could continue to reduce its
external and internal imbalance over the rddium term, provided the Covernment
exercises restraint in public expenditures and promotes exports, particularly
of manufactures. With relatively heavy external borrowing undertaken in
recent years, and with continued external deficits till the turn of the
decade, the debt-service ratio is expected to rise initially and then
stabilize at just below 20%. The possible impact of public investment
cutbacks on growth prospects underscores the critical importance of ensuring
greater efficiency in the public investment program. In addition, new growth
sources will need to replace those that propelled the economy forward in the
19709. International price prospects for rubber, palm oil, petroleum and tin
suggest that commodities production will be of less importance to Malaysian
economic growth than in the past. Even in the manufacturing sector, Malaysia
faces stiff competition from its populous neighbors in international markets
for labor-intensive products such as textiles and electronics assembly.
11.       The Fifth Five Year Plan includes a strong emphasis on resource-
based industrialization, the bulk of which would need to be financed by the
private sector. In preparing the ground for encouraging greater private
sector investment, the Government liberalized partially the investment
licensing laws and continued with its policy initiative of privatizing some
sectors of the economy. A cogent, comprehensive and well-coordinated
industrial and trade strategy will be central to Malaysia's economic future
and its ability both to compete internatiouially and transcend sudden shocks
inflicted by changes in the world economic environment.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       The Bank has, to date, approved 65 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$2,002.17 million for projects in agriculture, industry, education,
population, power, water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports,
railways, roads, and urban transport. As of September 30, 1986, the effective
loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to US$1,490.55 million; a total of
43 loans to Malaysia had been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans and IFC investments.
13.       Up to a few years ago, during years of a relatively comfortable
foreign exchange and fiscal situation and prospects, the Bank's lending



strategy toward. Malaysia aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate
poverty in the country, and was thus focussed upon rural development and
education. The agricultural projects enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of the beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange
earnings for the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
Although, as mentioned above, the economic situation and prospects have, siaate
then, changed considerably, Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income
groups has not diminished, and the Bank therefore intends to continue to
allocate a substantial share of its assistance to the agriculture and
education sectors.
14.       However, responding to a government request, the Bank has increased
and diversified its program of cooperation to cover both the commodity produc-
ing sectors as well as supporting social and physical infrastructure. The
assistance is aimed at maintaining a high overall rate of growth for the
economy and at raising productivity, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.
Consequently, the Bank is now also assisting in sectors where serious struc-
tural problems or institutional deficiencies exist. The Bank has increased
its coverage to lend to such sectors as industry, transport, power and water
supply, and is thus also making a more substantial contribution to alleviating
Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the medium term.
15.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has in recent years been seriously affected
by the country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in
project disbursements, which dropped from US$137 million in FY83 to US$100
million in FY85 and US$57 million in FY86.  Disbursement performance, measured
in terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed
amounts, was 0.22 in FY83, 0.17 in FY85, and 0.10 in FY86 (compared to
regional averages of 0.20, and 0.22, and 0.21 respectively, in the same
years).
16.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur
(the last one in October 1986). These reviews and the corrective action taken
by the agencies subsequently are having a positive impact on project implemen-
tation. Further reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian authorities.
It is also proposed to continue to reinforce the implementation reviews with
occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (the last disbursement
and procurement seminars took place in October 1986) for the benefit of the
implementing agencies.
17.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1986, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex II).
18.       In 1985, Malaysia's debt service ratio on private, public and
publicly guaranteed debt was about 15.3%. In the same year, debt service on



-6-
Bank obligations constituted about 8% of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the last three yearn, the proportion of Bank
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to
less than 3.51 at end-1985. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10% through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THIE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
The Energy Sector
19.       Malaysia's commercial energy consumption increased at an average
rate of 8% from 3.8 million tons of oil equivalent (MMTOE) in 1970 to 12.1
MMTOE in 1985. This was mainly due to growth and structural change- in the
economy. The average annual growth rate of CDP was 7%. The growth in energy
consumption was primarily dependent on oil. Until 1983, the share of
petroleum in total energy consumption was more than 90%. With the advent of
natural gas production, the share of oil declined in 1984 to 88% while natural
gas (5X), hydropower (4%) and ooal (3%) comprised the remaining 12%.  The
share of oil in commercial energy consumption is projected to decline to 60%
in 1990 and 49% in 1995, while the share of natural gas is expected to
increase to 27% and 38%, respectiveiy, in these years. The share of
hydropower will remain around 4%, while that of coal will increase to 6% in
1990 and 11% by the end of the century.
20.       Energy Resources.  The principal indigenous sources of energy in
Malaysia are crude oil, natural gas, hydropower and traditional fuels. Proven
reserves of crude oil are estimated at 3.5 billion barrels. The production
level, which was insignificant before 1967, reached 100,000 barrels/day (b/d)
in 1975, and increased to about 400,000 bId in 1983 and 430,000 b/d in 1985.
Although (alaysia's crude oil productinn is sufficient to meet its domestic
demand (presently about 200,000 b/d), the country depends on imported crude
and petroleum products to satisfy about 70% of its need. This is because
Malaysia's crude oil fetches a premium in the world oil market, but does not
yield enough of the fuel oil demanded in the country. Malaysia's net export
of petroleum is about 230,000 b/d.
21.       Proven and economically recoverable natural gas reserves in Malaysia
are presently estimated at about 53 trillion cubic feet (tcf). Natural gas
production is presently about 1,200 MMCFD, of which about 85% is fed into an
LNG plant located in Bintulu whose output is sold to Japan based on a 20-year
contract. The remaining 15% is used in the combined cycle power station in
Paka, the Trengganu steel mill and the Labuan methanol and hot briquetted iron
plants. Potential for increasing LNG exports is limited by a depressed
international market. There is also the prospect of piped gas exports of
about 150-200 MMCFD that the Singapore Public Utilities Board may buy;
however, no firm agreement has so far been reached between the two
countries. The largest potential for utilization of natural gas is in the
domestic market, most of which will be in the power sector.



22.       Hydropower resources are assessed at about 27,000 MW (123,000 CWh
per year). However, only about 13% of the hydro resources exist in Peninsular
Malaysia. Present hydro capacity in Peninsular Malaysia is about 1,150 MW
(3,000 CWh). Sarawak's hydropower potential, on the other hand, is estimated
at 20,000 NW (87,000 CGh per year), while Sabah's major hydro sites are
capable of producing 4,000 MW (20,000 GWh per year). The Government has been
seeking ways to harness Sarawak's hydro resources. The most important hydro
project under consideration is Bakun with a potential capacity of 2,400 MW.
The timing to implement this project is uncertain (para. 36(b)).
23.       Energy Consumption.  Malaysia's energy consumption reached 14.2
MMTOE in 19B5. The agricultural sector consumed about 8 of the total energy
in 1985, but its share is forecast to decline to 5% by the year 2000. The
industrial sector consumed about 411 of the total energy in 1985. The share
of this sector is expected to grow to 46% by 1995. The transport sector
accounted for 28% of energy consumption. The share of this sector is forecast
to decline to 26% by the end of the century. The residential/commercial
sector accounted for 23% of the total energy consumption. The residential
sector consumed about 60% of this energy. This sector's share of energy
consumption is expected to decline to about 18% by the end of the century.
The structure of the demand in the residential sector is expected to change
substantially; LPG (36%) and electricity (38%) are projected to replace a
large portion of traditional fuels.
24.       Sector Institutions (Energy and Power).  Coordination in energy
planning and implementation is achieved through a high level Cabinet Committee
on Energy. This committee, consisting of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime
Minister, Ministers of Energy, Trade and Industry, and Science and Technology,
is responsible for developing the country's long-term energy policy. The
committee is supported by a "Committee of Officials" chaired by the Chief
Secretary to the Government and having representatives from Petronas, the
Treasury, the Ministries of Energy, Science and Technology, Trade and
Industry, the National Electricity Board (NEB) and the Economic Planning Unit
(EPU).
25.       Petronas, established in 1974 as a government company, has the
operating responsibility in the oil and gas sector. Petronas Gas Sdn Rhd
(PGSB), a subsidiary of Petronas, was created in 1984 to implement and operate
gas utilization projects in Peninsular Malaysia. Its activities include the
construction and operation of gas processing plants and gas transmission and
distribution facilities.
26.       The responsibilities for power sector development and operation lie
within the province of the Ministry of Energy, TeLecommunications and Posts
(MOE) and the three power utilities, NEB, the Sabah Electricity Board (SEB),
and the Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation (SESCO).
The Power Subsector
27.       The Power Market.  Electricity supply in Malaysia grew at a rapid
pace over the past two decades. Total sales and per capita consumption
increased from 1,210 GWh and 125 kWh, respectively, in 1965 to 11,940 GWh and



8
769 kWh in 1985. The industrial sector has, since the 1970s, become the major
consumer accounting for 46% of the sales in 1985. Commercial (33%) and
residential (21%) sectors represent the balance. Growth in total demand is
tentatively projected at about 7% per annum, much slower than the average
historical rate of 12%. This is mainly due to lower medium term growth
prospects for the economy.
28.       Generation and Transmission Facilities.  The power sector's present
total installed capacity is 4,580 MW of which 3,781 MW belongs to NEB. The
major part (42%) of NEB's capacity is based on oil fired steam plants, while
hydro power (30%), gas fired combined cycle (16%), oil fired combustion
turbine (7%) and diesel (5%) comprise the rest. In 1985, NEB's total energy
generation was 12,730 GWh consisting of oil (58%), hydro (24%), natural gas
(9x) and diesel (9%). With the development of natural gas resources, and
along with continued exploitation of hydropower, a fundamental transformation
in fuel mix for electricity generation is underway. The oil-based generation
has declined from 80% in 1980 to 58% in 1985 and is expected to decline
further by 1991. The share of natural gas in the total electricity generation
is expected to increase to almost 47% by 1990 while oil (13%), coal (23%) and
hydro (17%) are projected to make up the rest.
29.       NEB's Development Program.  A forecast of load growth, based on
growth rates substantially lower than earlier envisaged, was finalized by the
Bank's Power Sector Review mission (paras. 35-36) in May 1986. According to
this load forecast, NEB's energy sales are projected to grow at 6.9% p.a.
during the Fifth Plan period (1986-90) and 7.3% p.a. during the Sixth Plan
period (1991-95).
30.       To meet the growth in demand, the mission worked with NEB and
prepared a long-term generation expansion program. This program, which will
raise NEB's installed capacity to 5,699 KW by 1995, is the least cost sequence
of power development. The program is predominantly based on the installation
of combined cycle power plants.
31.       The transmission expansion program envisages addition of about 2,056
km of higi-voltage lines and about 5,885 MVA of substation capacity in the
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1986-90), and about 1,7110 km of high-voltage lines and
about 3,140 MVA of substation capacity in the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1991-95).
Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Participation
32.       Experience with Past Loans.  The Bank has made eleven Loans to NEB
for financing the expansion of electricity generation and transmission capa-
city and development of rural electrification. The projects under the first
eight loans have been completed and are operating satisfactorily. The
implementation of the ninth power project (Loan 1808-MA) is virtually
completed. The implementation of the tenth power project (rural electrifica-
tion, Loan 2146-MA) has been slowed down because of the Government's decision
to reduce investments on rural electrification and the minihydro program due
to constraints on its domestic resources. The project is expected to be
completed about two years behind schedule. The eleventh power project



-9-
(Loan 2438-MA) is presently in the procurement stage and, as procurement has
been delayed, the project is currently running about one year behind
schedule.
33.       The Project Completion Report for the Eighth Power Project (Loan
1443-MA) noted the impressive financial and institutional progress made by NEB
and pointed out certain areas, such as improvement in operation of thermal/
hydro plants and distribution system planning, where strengthening was
required. The report also pointed out the need for reducing staffing in the
nontechnical cadres. The Bank's participation in the sector has thus helped
NEB to develop into a technically competent and efficient power utility.
Through its continuing dialogue with the sector institutions, the Bank has
been instrumental in assuring the overaLl adequacy of electricity tariffs and
in ensuring the sector's financial soundness. The Bank has also financed and
supervised a study on tariff structure (under Loan 2438-MA), some recommenda-
tions of which were taken into consideration by the Government while
introducing tariff changes in 1985.
34.       Sector Strategy.  The Malaysian economy is highly dependent on
petroleum exports both for foreign exchange earnings and for financing of its
public expenditures. In 1985, exports of petroleum generated about
US$2.1 billion in foreign exchange and supported more than 25% of all federal
expenditures, or 90% of federal capital spending. The rapid decline of oil
prices has reduced government petroleum revenues to an estimated level of
US$1.1 billion in 1986. Because of both (a) increasing domestic use of
petroleum and (b) reduced export earnings from tin, palm oil, rubber, and oil,
the economy faces serious financial constraints. The Government is therefore
concerned that: (a) domestic use of petroleum will rapidly absorb the share
of exports, which would in turn lead to a sharp decline in net export revenues
from oil; (b) investment requirements of capital intensive and import-
intensive projects, including those of the energy sector, will impose an
increasing burden on public budget; and (c) the widening gaps between imports
and exports, and between investments and savings would increase the country's
debt-service ratio and resource gap beyond acceptable levels. It has decided
to remedy the aforementioned trend in the energy sector by: (a) more
efficient management of present (capital and manpower) resources; (b) more
stringent screening of major investment projects; and (c) diversification and
conservation of energy use to release more petroleum for export. The Bank
supports this strategy.
35.       Rationale for Bank Participation.  In view of the present resource
constraints facing the Malaysian economy, issues of immediate concern to NEB
are to optimize the utilization of investments already made, reduce the
operational costs of its facilities and implement a fuel strategy based on
substitution of oil (which is a scarce resource) with natural gas (which is
available in abundance). In financing the proposed project, the Bank will be
assisting NEB in realizing these immediate priorities. Such assistance
complements the continuing policy dialogue with the Government on longer term
issues facing the energy sector in general and the power sector in
particular. Indeed, since, the Government of Malaysia is currently in the
process of formulating its energy master plan, it has sought the Bank's
assistance to help it resolve some of the critical issues. Concurrently with



- 10 -
the appraisal of the proposed project, a Bank Power Sector Review mission
reviewed critical issues and options in the power sector. A few of the
critical issues addressed related to the cost of gas, the feasibility of the
2,400-MW Bakun hydroelectric project and operational efficiency aspects of the
three utilities.
36.       Some tentative findings of this power sector review regarding NEB's
investment and operation were:
(a) NEB's generation expansion program, prepared in September 1985, was
based on () a high load forecast; (ii) a gas cost based on
financial rather than economic considerations; and (iii) 1,500 MW of
power imported from the 2,400 MW Bakun hydroelectric project. The
revised expansion program instead recommended: (i) a lower load
forecast; (ii) a newly computed economic cost of gas; and
(iii) generation expansion using gas as fuel in combined cycle
plants.
(b) The 2,400-MW Bakun hydroelectric project, costing about US$6 bil-
lion, would lock the power sector's investment program into a rigid
block of supply during a period when the country's financial
resources will be severely constrained. The timing of its
construction should be chosen based on its economic advantage over
alternative energy sources.
(c) Substantial savings in WEB's generation costs can be achieved by:
Ci) rehabilitating selected thermal stations and converting some
oil-fired steam units to gas firing; and (ii) implementing a plant
efficiency and maintenance management system.
(d) NEB needs to: rationalize the transmission system, remodel its
system control facilities, and intensify operator training to
achieve significant improvement in system performance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Beneficiary
37.       The Borrower of the proposed loan will be the National Electricity
Board (WEB) of the States of Malaya (Peninsular Malaysia). NEB is an
autonomous Board owned by GOM. It was established under the Electricity Act
of 1949. NEB comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy,
Telecommunications and Posts.
38.       NEB's operational and policy decisions are made by the Board of
Directors. AlL members of the Board are appointed by the Minister of Energy,
Telecommunications and Posts, who establishes their terms. The Chairman of
the Board is the Chief Secretary to the Government and the Deputy Chairman is
NEB's Ceneral Manager.



- 11 -
39.       Management.  Decision-making at NEB is centralized.  As NEB's scope
of business grows larger and its operations become more complex technically,
the range of decision-making will increasingly exceed the capacity of NEB's
organization structure. The proposed project includes a provision of techni-
cal assistance for enhancing NEB's Management Services and Development
Department, a unit which serves as an in-house consultant regarding systems,
procedures and organizational matters. At negotiations, NEB agreed that it
will (9 by June 30, 1987, begin formulating and implementing measures to
enhance the Management Services and Development Department; (ii) by June 30,
1988, prepare a report summarizing the activities undertaken; and (iii) by
September 30, 1988, discuss with the Bank those changes which have been made,
and (iv) implement according to an agreed schedule the mutually acceptable
changes which are still pending. The proposed project includes a provision
for NEB to hire consultants to assist in this endeavor.
40.       Human Resources Development.  In May 1985, to coordinate its quanti-
tative and qualitative approaches to human resources concerns, NEB established
a Human Resources Development Unit. The proposed project provides for techni-
cal assistance in the form of an adviser to the Human Resources Development
Unit. At negotiations, BEB agreed to retain, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, an Adviser to its Human Resources
Development Unit.
41.       Training.  During the past few years, NEB has sought to upgrade the
technical capabilities of its middle-management and working level staff, espe-
cially in the financial and accounting disciplines. In 1982, NEB constructed
a Training Institute to provide instruction in all phases of power utility
operations. We are satisfied that the steps NEB has taken in establishing and
developing the Training Institute are comprehensive and appropriate.
42.       Materials Handling.  NEB has introduced a program for computeriza-
tion and stock rationalization in its central store. Further improvement in
stores management is possible by systematizing the stocks and logistics of the
many stores at field locations. The proposed project includes a provision of
technical assistance aimed at integrating the materials handling systems and
logistics at all stores. At negotiations, NEB agreed that (i) by June 30,
1987 it will develop and implement a program to increase its efficiency
regarding materials handling; (ii) by September 30, 1988 analyze the program
and discuss primary conclusions with the Bank; and (iii) implement an action
plan acceptable to the Bank.
43.       Commercial Systems.  During the past several years, NEB has stream-
lined its billing and collection system. Payment of bills can be made through
district offices, post offices, and collection agents. Customers are given
one month to pay their bills and required to maintain a guarantee deposit
equivalent to about 60 days average consumption.
44.       In principle, WEB is authorized to disconnect any consumer who has
not paid his bill on time. NEB, however, prefers to remind customers of their
delinquency and disconnect only when their arrears exceed their guarantee
deposits. In any case accounts receivable to the private sector, including
unread meter accruals, should average between 40 and 45 days billings; they
have been averaging 50 days in recent years. NEB expects to improve on this
satisfactory performance after completion of the Distributed Source Data



- 12 -
Generation Project. At that point, in conjunction with implementation of the
proposed project, NEB will develop accounts receivable targets which it,
together with the Bank, would monitor closely.
45.       Management Information System.  During the past few years, NEB has
developed an interim on-line Management Information System. As the scope of
NEB's business grows, the system needs to become broader and the inputs from
the various departments need to become more consistent. During implementation
of the proposed project, the Bank will review and discuss NEB's efforts to
expand and integrate its Management Information System.
46.       Audit.  According to law, all government-owned corporations and
boards are required to close their accounts within six months of the conclu-
sion of the financial year and thereafter furnish the compiled accounts for
audit by the Auditor General. With NEB closing its books and compiling annual
accounts within six months of the end of the financial year, the auditors
should be capable of producing an audit within an additional three months.
This arrangement has been accepted by the Bank in connection with the Eleventh
Power Project (Loan 2438-MA). At negotiations, NEB agreed that it will (i)
furnish unaudited financial statements to the Bank within six months of the
end of NEB's financial year, and (ii) furnish audited financial statements,
together with the certification and long form report prepared by an acceptable
auditor, to the Bank within nine months of the conclusion of NEB's financial
year.
47.       As required under the Ninth Power Project (Loan 1808-MA), NEB
established a Corporate Audit Department which is directly responsible to the
General Manager. This unit has been developing its activities and functioning
satisfactorily.
The Project
48.       The project was identified in July 1985 and appraised in May 1986.
Negotiations were held in Washington from October 16-17, 1986 with the
Malaysian delegation headed by Dr. Hadenan Jalil, Deputy Secretary Finance
Division, Treasury. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6373-MA, dated November 25,
1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are given in Annex III of this report.
49.       Project Objectives.  With the recent sharp decline in traditional
exports and in foreign exchange earnings, Malaysia is facing severe resource
constraints in the medium-term. In this environment, NEB's immediate concern
is to maximize the operational efficiency of its existing facilities and to
optimize its use of the country's energy resources. The proposed project
seeks to achieve these objectives, through emphasis on improving the effici-
ency of thermal power stations, replacing oil with natural gas as the primary
fuel for power generation, introducing a more effective maintenance management
system for thermal and hydro power plants, rationalizing the transmission sys-
tem, modernizing system operation and control, and furthering specific insti-
tutional capabilities.



- 13 -
50.       Project Description.  The project includes the following components:
(a) Thermal Stations: Plant Rehabilitation and Conversion
(i)    Rehabilitation of plant at tl) the Tuanku Jaafar power station
(4x60 + 3x120 MW); (2) the Prai power station (3X120 * 3x30
MW); and (3) the Sultan Iskandar power station (2x120 MW).
(ii)    Conversion of 600 MW of plant at Tuanku Jaafar and 240 MW of
plant at Sultan Iskandar power stations from oil to oil/gas
firing.
(b)  Maintenance Management Systems for Thermal and Hydro Stations
Introduction of computerized maintenance management systems at the
Tuanku Jaafar, Prai, Paka, Sultan Iskandar, Port Klang and Connaught
Bridge thermal stations and at the Perak River, Cameron Highlands
and Kenyir hydro stations.
(c) System Control Improvements
Mi)    Modernization of NEB's existing national load dispatch center
including installation of necessary communication equipment.
Cii)    Installation of three regional control centers at Prai, Johor
Baru and Klang to provide SCADA (supervisory control and data
acquisition) functions.
Cd)  Transmission Lines and Substations for Power Supply to Kuala Lumpur
Installation of about 72 km of 275 kY and 132 kV transmission lines
and nine 275/132/33 kV and 132/33 kV substations, needed for
rationalizing the power supply system, reducing system losses and
improving the reliability of supply for the rapidly growing area of
Kuala Lumpur and its environs.
(e)  Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen NEB's capabilities
in the following areas:
Ci)    distribution system planning, management, operation and
maintenance, construction, loss assessment and reduction;
(ii)    organizational efficiency through the conduct of a study to
upgrade the management services department;
(iii)    materials management;
(iv)    fixed assets accounting through the conduct of a fixed assets
inventory; and
(v)    human resources development.



- 14 -
51.       Cost Estimates.  Cost estimates for the project are based on
December 1986 prices; physical contingencies are at 102. The price contin-
gencies which amount to 4.5% of the base cost plus physical contingencies, are
computed on the basis of: (a) local cost escalation--1987-3.0%, 1988-90-1.01,
1991-3.5%. The estimate is net of taxes and duties, from which NEB is
exempt. The total financing required is $180.8 million equivalent, including
interest during construction.
52.       Project Financing Plan.  The financing plan for the proposed project
is as follows: (a) the proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million will meet about
55% of the total project cost and about 79% of the foreign cost component; and
(b) NEB will finance about 45% of the project cost from its internal cash
generation.
53.       Project Implementation and Consulting Services.  Based on an
in-depth review of proposals for thermal plant rehabilitation identified in
separate studies made by two consultants, an NEB task force developed a list
of necessary equipment. However, NEB will be seeking consultancy assistance
for developing detailed specifications. NEB has made its own studies of its
load dispatch system and has developed detailed requirements for its
modernization. Feasibility studies have already been completed for
rationalizing the transmission system for supply to Kuala Lumpur; detailed
equipment specifications have also been developed. Outline terms of
reference, which were agreed upon in substance during negotiations, have been
drafted for technical assistance relating to enhancement of the Management
Services and Development Department, human resources development, materials
handling, fixed assets accounting and distribution system planning. A total
of 430 man-months of technical assistance for these various activities are
envisaged.
54.       Procurement.  Equipment financed under the proposed Bank loan would
be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. Consulting services financed under the Bank
loan would be engaged in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Under ICB,
local manufacturers will be permitted to participate where appropriate and
would be eligible for a preference of 15% of the CIF cost of the imported
goods or the prevailing custom duties and other import taxes, whichever is
lower, in the evaluation of bids.
55.       All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$2,000,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review
of procurement documents. About 80% of the procurement documents are likely
to be reviewed. Most major equipment for the proposed project is expected to
be imported. Conductors for transmission lines, miscellaneous items such as
control cables, which are now available in the country and are of good
quality, and civil works for substations will not be financed by the Bank.
These items will be reserved for local procurement through NEB's normal
procedures which are satisfactory.
56.       The following major procurement packages are proposed for ICB:
(a) thermal plant rehabilitation and conversion--(i) control and instrumenta-
tion, (ii) conversion of boilers to gas/oil firing, (iii) miscellaneous



- 15 -
rehabilitation equipment; (b) central load dispatch and control center equip-
ment; kc) substations--(i) switchgear, (ii) transformers; and (d) transmission
lines including towers, insulators and erection works.
57.       The allocation of the proposed IBRD loan for procurement of goods
and services for different project components is summarised in the following
table:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Total
Project component                                ICB   LCB  Others   NA /a  cost
Thermal plant rehabilitation                     5.2    -       -     3.6   18.8
(15.2)                      (15.2)
Thermal plant conversion from oil to
oil/gas firing                                12.2    -       -     2.9   15.1
(12.2)                      (12.2)
Maintenance management system                    1.1    -       -     0.7    1.8
(0.4)                       (0.4)
System control improvements                     23.1    -       -     4.1   27.2
(23.1)                      (23.1)
Transmission system rationalization
-- lines                                       8.1  11.0      -     2.8   21.9
(8.1)                       (8.1)
-- substations                                41.0  '2.7      -     5.0   68.7
(37.0)                      (37.0)
Consulting services                               -     -      5.2    1.3    6.5
-          (4.0)          (4.0)
Total                                    100.7  33.7    5.2   20.4  160.0
(96.0)  (.0)(4.0   (0.0)(100.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate financing from the Bank loan.
/a   Refers to NEB's expenditures for its own staff, administration and
overheads and miscellaneous local materials.
58.       Disbursements.  The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of
the foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b)
100% of local expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items procured
through 'CB; and (c) 100% of expenditures for consulting services.
59.       Reimbursements of expenditures relating to contracts valued at less
than $200,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs need not be submitted



- 16 -
to the Bank but should be retained by NEB and made available for review by the
Bank supervision missions. To facilitate project disbursements, a Special
Acount in a fully convertible currency will be established in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the
Special Account is US$7.j million representing four months' average project
expenditures. Replenishments to the Special Account would be made quarterly
or whenever the Account is drawn down by about 50% of the initial deposit.
60.       Retroactive financing would be permitted to the extent of US$1.0
million equivalent, for payments made prior to the date of loan agreement, but
after July 1, 1986.
61.       Project Implementation and Monitoring.  The proposed project is
expected to be completed by 1990. Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the
progress of the project with regard to physical execution and financial
reports have been agreed with NEB who will furnish quarterly progress reports.
62.       Environment.  The project is not expected to have any adverse
environmental impacts. In fact, rehabilitation of thermal plant would lead to
less pollution, especially in cases of conversion from oil to gas firing. The
high voltage substations proposed for Kuala Lumpur and the surrounding areas
will be of indoor GIS (Gas Insulated Switchgear) design, necessitated by space
shortage. This design would be aesthetically more acceptable than large out-
door substations. Transmission circuits will be placed underground where
necessary. The control center equipments will be housed in existing
buildings.
Finance
63.       NEB has responsibility for maintaining satisfactory revenues,
meeting its expenses and debt service, formulating and financing its
investment program (with guidance from gM), and mobilizing resources for GOM
through payment of taxes and dividends.-  NEB has the legal authority to set
or adjust its tariff; in practice, however, NEB does not adjust the tariff in
a manner contrary to COM policy.
64.       Past and Present Financial Performance.  NEB has been a strong
financial performer during the recent four years. This strong performance was
the direct result of rate increases in 1980 and 1981. After oil prices
softened in 1984, NEB waited to assess the likely impact of the trend before
lowering its rates twice during the current financial year (on September 1,
1985 and March 13, 1986).  Based on current rates, MEB's average revenue is
expected to average 20.3 sen/kwh and 19.3 sen/kwh in the financial years ended
August 31, 1986 and 1987 respectively. Even at those lower levels, NEB is
expected to show good financial results.
31   In order to reduce pressure for increasing revenues, GOM elected to
exempt NEB from paying taxes and remitting dividends during 1980-86.



- 17 -
65.       Fixed Asset Ac%ounting.  During the past four years, NEB has
recorded astonishingly high rates of return on its fixed assets in operation,
in part because it followed excessively rigid fixed asset accounting rules.
In effect, assets are not transferred from work in progress to gross fixed
assets unless NEB headquarters receives completion certificates from relevant
construction supervisors. Often, these certificates have been received
several years after revenue producing assets have been taken into commercial
operation. Thus, historically valued gross fixed assets in operation might be
understated by as much as M$1,400 million. To provide a more accurate record
of its rate base, the proposed project includes a provision for a review and
update of NEB's fixed asset accounts. At negotiations, NEB agreed that it
will (i) conduct an inventory of its fixed assets as of August 31, 1987; and
(ii) incorporate the results of that fixed asset inventory into its annual
accounts for 1987.
66.       While its audited annual accounts record fixed assets valued at
historical cost, NEB does revalue its assets in memorandum form and provides
the result of that revaluation to the Bank annually. To conduct this exer-
cise, NEB uses a "fixed asset deflator" furnished to it by COM. According to
the proposed terms of reference, the consultants conducting NEB's fixed asset
inventory will be asked to review the methodology for using the "fixed asset
deflator" and recommend whatever changes are appropriate.
67.       Liquidity.  Under past projects, NEB has agreed to maintain its
current ratio in excess of 1.1 to 1. NEB has complied with this agreement in
1984 and 1985, and expects to continue to be in compliance at the end of the
current financial year. Therefore, the Bank will waive agreement to current
ratio targets in connection with the proposed and past power projects in
Malaysia. Instead, during implementation of the proposed project, the Bank
will monitor closely those of NEB's current accounts which reflect its
operational efficiency.
68.       Foreign Exchange Exposure.  As of August 31, 1985, NEB had long-term
borrowings exceeding M$3,050 million, of which more than K$2,700 million was
denominated in foreign currency. As of that date, the current value of NEB's
portfolio of borrowings exceeded its book value by about K$77 million, or
about 3%. In the intervening period, the Ringgit has weakened somewhat
against the US dollar; and the Yen, the currency of NEB's primary exposure,
has strengthened markedly against the US dollar. Consequently, NEB risks
realizing substantial foreign exchange losses during the next few years. At
negotiations, NEB agreed that it will introduce into its year-end accounts for
1986. policies and practices which properly reflect the impact of its foreign
exchange exposure and which would be designed and implemented in accordance
with international accounting standards while also consistent with Malaysian
practices.
69.       Tariff.  NEB has adjusted its tariff twice during the current
financial year. When adopting the new tariff, NEB developed a structure of
rates that represented a step toward long run marginal cost, and levels of
rates which were producing revenues similar to those which would be expected
from a long run marginal cost based tariff. As a result of increases in plant
efficiency the levels of long run marginal cost are expected to decline. In



- 18 -
the future, financial considerations will guide pricing decisions. During the
next few years, NEB will attain its financial objectives even without
increasing its tariff, thus actually dropping its rates gradually in real
terms. Thereafter, to meet its financial objectives, NED projects maintaining
the real value of its rates, coincidentally at levels consistent with long run
marginal cost. Such a tariff policy is acceptable.
70.       Financing Plan 1987-1991.  The proposed project, including interest
during construction, represents only a modest 6% of NEB's investment program
for the period. The proposed Bank loan, which would be extended directly to
NEB for a term of 15 years (including 3 years of grace on repayment of
principal) and bearing the standard variable interest rate, is expected to
meet only 3% of NEB's total financing requirement for the period.
71.       During the period, NEB expects to meet about 50% of its overall
investment needs from internal cash generation. In addition, 7% of its finan-
cing requirements would be met from other sources related to operations,
including consumer deposits and government contributions for extending rural
electrification distribution lines. In addition to the proposed loan, the
Bank expects to finance 2% of NEB's investment requirements through existing
loans (Loans 2146-MA and 2438-MA) and assist in meeting another 2% of NEB's
financing requirements through arrangement for a B loan. That loan, which is
expected to close in early 1987, would provide US$50.0 million to finance
portions of both the Tenth and Eleventh Power projects. About 11% of NEB's
investment requirements are expected to be met from other loans for which NEB
has already received commitments; the remaining 26% of NEB's investment
program would be financed by other loans for which sources have still not been
confirmed. Based on commercial terms which foreign lenders have recently made
available to NEB, these further borrowings are expected to bear a nominal
interest rate of 8.5% and a term of 10 years, including 3 years of grace on
repayment of principal.
72.       Because its current debt/total capital (net of any reserve for
revaluation of assets) ratio is only 44% and it intends to meet only about 43%
of its investment needs from borrowings during the period, NEB projects that
equity will continue providing the majority of its capital for the foreseeable
future. However, owing to its sizeable existing and projected foreign
exchange exposure, substantial unfavorable variations in exchange rates could
suddenly weaken NEB's capital structure. At negotiations, NEB agreed to forgo
incurring additional debt if such debt would raise NEB's total debt to more
than 60% of total capital (net of any reserve for revaluation of assets). NEB
has given, and consistently complied with, similar assurances under past Bank
projects.
73.       Future Finance.  Under past projects, NEB has given assurances that
it would take steps, including but not limited to increasing its tariff, to
realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operating expenses, all interest
chargeable to operations, debt repayment, income taxes, dividends payable and



- 19 -
at least 30% of its average annual investment program.41 NEB has complied
with this agreement during the past four years and expects to continue doing
so during the projection period. At negotiations, NEB agreed to renew this
agreement. Also, at negotiations, WEB agreed that, unless the Bank accepts
otherwise, it may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
net revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times NEB's projected debt service require-
ment. NEB has complied and expects to continue complying consistently with
this agreement. Either through compliance with the 30% contribution to
investment target or simply maintaining the nominal value of rates where the
previous year's tariff provides net revenues sufficient to exceed that target,
NEB would be self-financing ar,nually an average of 45% of its investment
program during the period 1987-1995. At the same time, the rate of return on
revalued assets would average 10%; the rate of return on historically vatued
assets would average 14%; and the debt service coverarte ratio would average
2.1 (while never dipping below 1.8). Throughout the period, NEB should
continue enjoying satisfactory liquidity. While the rate of return on
revalued assets remains satisfactory on average throughout the projection
period, that indicator does drop through 1992 and remains at only marginally
satisfaLtory levels therafter. That drop is acceptable because the level at
which rates are expected to stabilize is compatible with long run marginal
cost. Moreover, the other financial indicators suggest that even with lower
real rates, NEB will retain a strong base of equity capital and remain highly
profitable through 1995.
Benefits and Risks
74.       Economic Rate of Return.  The internal economic rate of return
gIERR) has been computed for the entire NEB's (1986-95) investment program as
well as for the project components. Evaluation of the IERR for system control
improvements relating to the national load dispatch center and the regional
control centers has not been attempted as benefits are not quantifiable;
however, the benefits (in the form of more efficient dispatch of generating
units, better system security and faster restoration of service) are expected
to fully justify the costs. The IERR of NEB's (1986-95) investment program
based on "direct" benefits measured in terms of revenues is 12%, which is
higher than the opportunity cost of capital (10%). When included in the
benefit stream, consumer surplus raises the IERR from 12% to 22%. The IERRs
of the project components are: (a) thermal power plant rehabilitation and
maintenance system--19.8Z; (b) conversion from oil to gas firing-- >100%; and
Cc) transmission lines and substations for rationalizing supply to Kuala
Lumpur--13.9?.
75.       Risks.  The project faces no substantial risks.  There is a
possibility that a delay in construction of the gas pipe line could delay
conversion of Tuanku Jaafar and Sultan Iskandar Power Stations to gas
4/ The average of (a) its investment programs for (i) the immediately
preceding year, and Cii) the current year; and (b) its expected invest-
ment program for the next year.



- 20 -
firing. However, as conversion will retain oil burning capability of the
aforementioned plant there is no risk of loss of generation. The economic
rate of return on gas firing equipment is high enough to tolerate delays in
gas availability. Rights of way for transmission lines and plots for
substations are already available for the project component for rationalizing
supply to Kuala Lumpur; hence no delays are foreseen on this account.
PART V--RECOHMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
Attachments
November 25, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 21 - 
PRop I of 2
CDIINTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATInNAl. PRODUCT IN 1985:  US mln  28,959               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH 
t In constant price and
Its$ min    S        196 _-7n  1471-77    1078   )V74   390   19Rl   1.H   1083   19R4   14AS
GNP at Mnrket Prices           2R,955   10n.0           6.4      7.R        5.9    e.1    0,3    7.5    4.2    1.9    6.6   -1.5
Croas Domestic Inveatment        9,324    12.2          6.7      11.4       R.1   11.9   20.6   16.9   11.2    7.R    4.4  -9.1
Crows Nattonal Saving            7,876    27.2           *        *          *       A      *      *       *      *              a
Exports or flood. & NFS         17,174    59.3          6.0       7.5       7.h   18.0    3.2   -0.8   10.7   12.4   14.1    1.1
Imports of (;oods & NIB         15,562    51.7          2.9      R.5       12.9   20.4   20.5    5.6   Il,A    0.n    6.4   -9.R
OUTPUT, LAHOR FORCE AND
PPOmICTIVITY IN 19R4 /4
Value Added                      Ymplayent                  Valued added per worket
US$ mlin             X             min               Z              11S$              Z
Agricultiure                           5,135             20.8            2.0             36.4            2,629             5R.4
Industry                               8,615             35.0            1.1            23.             6,80nn           151. 
Servtces                              10,8R4             44.2            2.2             4n.n            4,842            107,
Total/AverAge                    24,634           1on.n             5.5           Inn.0            4,50s           i1n.0
GOVERNMENT FTNANCE
General Government                              Central Government
M I tin              R of CNP                   11L min             2 of cnP
1985        1985            19B2-84             1985        1985            1992-84
Current Receipts                             24,2n0       33.7              21.6             21,114      27.2              26.4
Current Kxpendttures                         22,147       30.8              25.8             20,066       25.9              23.1
Current Surplus                               2,062        2.9               5.0              I,04a        4.5               1.1
Development Expenditures /b                   15,528      21.6              15.1              6,756        8.7              13.5
ForTign Borrowing (net)                       1,0l6        4.3               5.9                057        1.7               5.o
MONEY, CRFDIT AND PRICES
1975    1976    1977    1978    1q79    1980    1981    1982    1083    1084         1985
(Million NS ouatstanding end period)
Money and Ounst-Mnney               i,0nol  12,771  14,861  17,521  21,73q  27,417  32,140  37,61R  41,154  45,A59   4R,92n
Rank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                       1,313   1,136   1,214   1,017    -7n2       549   :,7A6   4,617   4.2n0   4,771    1,654
Rank Credit to Private
Sector                             6,n77   7.471   8,971  11,626  14,641  2n0,46  24,976  29,197  35,4n3  41,976   47,849
(Percentages or Tnde: Numbers)
Money and fuasil-Monev
as % of CUP                         44.8    45,5    46.n    46.2    46.8    51.2    55.9    60.n    5f.9    57.6         63.1
Consumer Prtce Index
(1980 - 100)                       8n.2    82.3    06.2    9n.5    93.7   1nn.n   109.7   116.1   12o.4   125.1    125.5
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                          4.4     2.6      4.7     5.0      3.5     6.7      9.7     5.R      3.7     3.0      0.3
Rank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                        36.9   -13.5      6.9   -16.2        a       *   407.s    65.7   -13.9    13.5   -65.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector         15.2    20.1    2n.1    29.6    25.9    30.0    22.8    16.9    21.3    38.6         14.n
*   Not applicable.
la In 1978 priceps.
717 Includes net lending.
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the everage exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
October 1986



22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
TRADF PAYM.NTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1983      1984      1985             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1983-85)
----(03$ million)                                            uss million      2
Exports of goods, NFS             15,703   18,529   17,291         Petroleum                       1,623        23.7
Imports of goods, NFS             17,334   17,866   15,625         Palm nil                        1, 60        10.5
Resource Cap (deficit - -)       -1,631       663    1,666         Timber                          1,599        1n.5
Factor Services (net)            -1,814   -2,224   -2,306          Rubber                          1,453         9.5
Net TranBfer,                        -9       -39       -30        Tin                               187         1.8
Balance on Current Account                                         All other commoditten           6,423        42.n
(deficit - -)                  -3.454   -1,600       -670
Total                    15,2Wf lOn.O
Direct Forcign Investment          1,261      914       754
Net MLT Borrowing Ia               2,878    1,435    2,883
lisbursements                    3,i64    1,949    3,284         rXTEPNAI. DEBT, DFCFMBF.R 31, 1985       llS9 min
Amortization                       2R6      514       406/b
Public rebt. Incl. Guaranteed             14,n61
Subtotal                       4,t39    2._39    3,637          Nanguaranteed Private Debt                 2,R41
Total Oiutstanding & Disbursed            16,902
Other Items n.e.i.                 -617      -669   -1,A27
Increase In Reserves (+) /c           4A       80    1,14n
International Reserves                                             DEBT SERVICE PATIO FOR 1985 /d               7
(end year)                    4,n70    4,115    5,n21
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               In.3
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Nongtiranteed Private Debt                    5.3
Imports                            1,82fi   1,424      n.a.        1'OLal Ottstanding & Disbursed               15.6
Exports                            4,009    4,887      n.a.
Of which:  Crude Petroleum    3.354    3,734    3,309
lBRDJIIA LFNDING (MARCH 31, 1986)        IPRD
(11S$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANCE          MS per USS             11S$ p2r MS
Outstanding £ Disbursed                   736.82
1980                      2.18                  0.46           llnd shursed                              554.73
1981                      2.30                  0.43           nutstanding incl. llndisbursed          1,291.55
19R2                      2.34                  0.43
1983                      2.32                  0.41
19B4                      2.f4                  0.43
1985                      2.48                  :.40
August 1986               2.61                  0.3R
n.a. not applicable.
(a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
lb  Excludes reFinancing of i$5,478 million in 1q85.
tc  Discrepancy due to conversion to 1$SS.
td  Interest ar.d amortizatton payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and non-Factor
services.
October 1986



-23 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS Ia
As of September 30, 19ON
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                    (less cancellations)
no.    Year        Borrower                  Purpose                    Bankc    Undisburmed
Forty-three loans fuLly disbursed                                         988.40
1717    1979   Malaysia               MUDA [I Irrigation                   31.00        4.31
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power IX                               45.00        3.27
1899    1980   Malaysia               Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.          18.00       10.29
1957    1981   Malaysia               Rompin-Endau Area Dev.               40.00       21.10
1960    1981   Malaysia               Trans-Perak Area Dev.                46.00       31.01
2013    1981   Malaysia               FELCRA I                             37.00       21.92
2145    1982   Malaysia               Industrial Training (Educ. VI)        40.60      28.32
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    66.30           36.47
2147    1982   Malaysia               Malacca Agri. Development             17.75       7.57
2220    1983   Malaysia               Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    44.80         28.91
2291    1983   Malaysia               Sabah-Sarawak Road                    86.22      86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                              70.00      68.23
2471    1985   Malaysia               Small Scale Enterprises               52.10      46.18
2530    1985   FELDA                  FELDA Palm Oil MiLl Project           31.20      27.32
2550    1985   Malaysia               Sabah Forestry Tech. Assistance        6.50       6.38
2601    1986   Malaysia               Second Industrial Training           68.50       68.15
2642    1986   Malaysia               Land Settlement Infrastructure        50.00      50.00
2654    1986   Malaysia               Johore Water SuppLy Project          62.00       62.00
2685    1986   Malaysia               Primary and Secondary Education   127.00        127.00
2686    1986   Malaysia               Port Kelang                            2.10       2.10
2687    1986   Malaysia               Port Kelang                           16.70      16.70
2740    1987   Malaysia               Second Western Johore Agr. Dev.    55.00         55.00
Total Loans (less cancellation)                                 2,002.17
of which has been repaid                                        423.60
Total now outstanding                                           1,578.51
Amount sold                                                        87.96
of which has been repaid         43.89
Total loans now held by Bank                                    1,490.55
Total undisbursed                                                             808.23
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-24 -                              ANNEX rI
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1986
Amount in
Type of             US$ million
Year              Obligor                    business       Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-        Financing           -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                          Money and           -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement           1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.              Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles           1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                  Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                           14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                    -    0.41    0.41



ANNEX III
-25                                Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
SECTION I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project       : 1 year
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project              : NEB
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank             : July 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission                     : April 1986
(e)  Completion of negotiations                         : October 17, 1986
(f) Planned effectiveness                               : March 1987
SECTION II: Special. Bank Implementation Actions
None
SECTION III: Special Conditions
(a) NEB will (i) by June 30, 1987, begin formulating and implementing
measures to enhance the Management Services and Development Depart-
ment; (ii) by June 30, 1988, prepare a report summarizing the
activities undertaken; and (iii) by September 30, 1988, discuss with
the Bank those changes wbich have been made, and implement them
according to an agreed schedule of those mutually acceptable changes
which are still pending (para. 39).
(b) NEB will retain an Adviser to the Human Resources Development Unit
(para. 40).
(c) NEB will (i) by June 30, 1987, begin developing and implementing a
program to increase its efficiency in materials handling; (ii) by
September 30, 1988, complete the analysis and discuss the primary
conclusions with the Bank; (iii) according to an acceptable time-
table, implement those mutually agreeable systems and procedures;
and (iv) thereafter, maintain inventories at levels that are
consistent with the systems and procedures which have been adopted
(para. 42).
(d) NEB will (i) furnish unaudited financial statements to the Bank
within six months of the end of NEB's financial year; and (ii)
furnish audited financial statements, together with the certifica-
tion and long form report prepared by an acceptable auditor, to the
Bank within nine months of the conclusion of NEB's financial year
(para. 46).



- 26 -                                ANNEX IrI
Page 2 of 2
(e)  NEB will (i) conduct as of August 31, 1987 an inventory of its fixed
assets; and (ii) incorporate the results of that fixed asset
inventory into its annual accounts for 1987 (para. 65).
(f)  NEB will introduce into its year end accounts for 1986, policies and
practices which properly reflect the impact of its foreign exchange
exposure and which would be designed and implemented in accordance
with international accounting standards, while also being consistent
with Malaysian accounting practices (para. 68).
(g) NEB will forgo incurring additional debt if such additional debt
would raise NEB's total debt to more than 60% of total capital net
of any reserve for revaluation of assets (para. 72).
(h) NEB will take steps, including but not limited to increasing its
tariff, to realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operating
expenses, all interest chargeable to operations, debt repayment,
income taxes, dividends payable and at least 30% of its average
annual investment program (para. 73).
Ci) NEB will, unless the Bank accepts otherwise, incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures
for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.3 times NEB's projected debt service requirement (para. 73).



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20167
loto                              nit                                ik7  --         _ I
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
T H A I L A N D                                                                                POWER GRID
UNDER     PUTjnE
iN - \Ef  aINNOSNTRUC?CON 4 CI    rOADCT  TRANSMESlON LINUS
* - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27|11kV
J    :juMI K        s                                                                                                                K 2 _IV
POCWER TATIONE
\  .                         o K>Rbgu                                                 i3      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hnrmid
s                                                        ";  *                        A A       A                        SUWTATIONS
a                      \                      j                              tr      / L""C nB                                   ETATE EOUNOARIEB                eB
-4  - _ _  INTERNATIONALDoUNDAPIB}
Ounun~~~~~~~~~a -    a  *li U  >
M.*:.Ix                -
IRunpl Pnlu (1                                                                                               L -U
_5D                                                                                   GueIWuiwaj i          \       '  Ni VK(, A  NUl                              5
8.4.~~~~~~~~~
PANJCr                                                                                                                                                       4 :    K s
PWR ~ ~ ~             R   A         \\          b                           '               /      A K
r w }i: ^ ' ' ' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; A IV /                                                  so
flu ~     ~        ~         K UinflSW                        i              emlu
aq ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ J ngJuai<i    S EEAfi
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
UVAYU, , -                                                                                                                                    Iskul lldt  .'FeS  ^,I. t
-    -    -VI                                        NrnlT SINGAPORE    -. -                                                       Z5IN APOlS
-r   191                                 \    5       wro.Uh,               a - gChrah             resA~~~~~~~~~SETEMER   98
*IU El ANr )
rnlA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                              P,d -u                   - ; _  pl    TRunul
<7 srZwilHE R ~~~5b.v/                            S  NGAPORE
sabAlrS~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b- joy.esl  rv_^rv                                                   5hM, ,   0                 _0° 
NAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETUE 11986,






