Docu_mt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6373-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 25, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
M$ 1.0     US$0.4
US$ 1.0  =   M$2.5
(As of .June 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
NEB :         September 1 - August 31
Government : January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km        =   Kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg            Kilogram (2.205 pounds)
Ton           Metric ton (1,000 kilograms)
kW        =   Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW        =   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kVA       =   Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA       =   Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kWh           Kilowatt hour (860 kilo calories)
GWh       =   Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kV            Kilovelt (1,000 volts)
BTU       =   British Thermal Unit (0.253 kilo calories)
MMBTU     =   Million BTU
b/d           Barrels per day (1 barrel = 159 liters)
TOE       =   Tons of oil equivalent
MMTOE     =   Million TOE
MMCFD     =   Million cubic feet per day
tcf       =   Trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
EPU       -   Economic Planning Unit
LRMC      -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MOE       -   Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts
NEB       -   National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya
PETRONAS  -   National Petroleum Agency
PGSB      -   Petronas Gas Sdn.Berhad
SEB       -   Sabah Electricity Board
SESCO     -   Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summm ary.....................,...............  iii
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR ...........................................        1
B. Energy Resources...... ......... 0   ......................    1
C. Energy Consumption ................ . . ....... ................ 2
D. Sector Institutions (Energy and Power).....................    2
II.  THE POWER SECTOR .............................................       3
A. The Po;wer Market ................................. 3
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities....................    4
C. INEB's Development Program........................................    4
D. Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Participation......    5
III. THE BENEFICIARY                  .................    7
A. Introduction ...                                                  7
B. Orgn     rai  g..   a     n i z         a ti on.... .............       8
C. Financial Management ...........   .... ....    .                12
IV.  THE PROJECT ..........- O..................................         15
A. Project Objectives .......                                       15
B. Project Description.... o................................. . ..  16
C. Cost Estimateso ................................. 18
DD. Fina cninggP anl.n.     .* *   .    *   . .     . . *     . . .  ..  . . *.   .  ....  .....      ...  ..  .  .... * a 20
E. Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement ......   20
F. Environment                ......                 ........ ...   23
V.  FINANCE......................................................    23
A. Introduction .................................. 23
B. Past and P'resent Financial Performance....................   24
C. Tariff*....................................................   28
D. Financing Plan. ............................. ..............   28
E. Future Finance ............................. ......... ..... .   30
This report was prepared by D.B. Mehta, J. Sopher and H. Razavi who appraised
the project in May 1985.
This document has a restricted distribution and may lNe used by recipients only in the performance
of tht;ir oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...............................  32
A, Justification                      ....                         32
B. Economic Rate of Rotur                                    n .................................   33
Co                                                                ii ................  34
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RICONMENDATIONS ...............................   35
ANNEXES
Annex 1 -  NEB's Actual Electricity Sales, Generation, Peak Demand, Installed
Capacity and Number of Employees
Annex 2  -  NEB's Transmission and Distribution Facilities
Annex 3  -  Forecast of NEB's Electricity Sales, Generation, Peak Demand and
Installed Capacity
Annex 4 - Forecast of Electricity Demand by Consumer Category (Tables 1,2,3)
Annex S  -  NEB's Long-Term Generation Expansion Program (1986-95)
Annex 6  -  National Electricity Board -- Orgarization Chart
Annex 7 - Management Services and Development Department Consulting Study --
Terms ef Reference
Annex 8  -  Human Resources Development Advisory Services -- Terms of
Reference
Annex 9  -  Materials Randling Study -- Terms of Reference
Annex 10 -  Coet Estimate -- Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation
Annex 11 -  Cost Estimate -- Computerized Maintenance Management System for
Thermal and Hydro Plants
Annex 12 -  Cost Estimate -- Thermal Power Plant:  Conversion from Oil to
Oil/Gas Firing
Annex 13 -  Cost Estimate -- System Control Improvements
Annex 14 -  Cost Estimate -- Substations for Transmission System
Rat 5onalization
Annex 15 - Cost Estimate -- Transmission Lines for Transmission System
Rationalization
Annex 16 - Cost Estimate -- Consultancy Services
Annex 17 - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18 - Implementation Schedule
Annex 19 - NEB's Annual Financial Statements - 1982-1995 (projected)
Annex 20 -  Inventory of Fixed Assets and Fixed Asset Accounting Study --
Terms of Referenca
Annex 21 - NEB's Tariffs
Annex 22 - NR.B's Investment Program - Calculation of the Internal Economic
Rate of Return
Annex 23 - Project Components - Calculation of the Internal Economic Rate of
Return
Annex 24 - Distribution System Planning Consulting Study - Terms of Reference
Annex 25 - Documents in Project File
MAP      IBRD 20157



- iii -
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT RERABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      National Electricity Board of the States of Malaya (NEB)
Guarantot:     Malaysia
Amount:        US$100 million equivalent
Terms:         15 years, including three years grace, at standard variable
interest rates
Project
Description: With the recent sharp decline in foreign exchange earnings,
Malaysia is facing severe resource constraints. In this
environment, NEB's immediate concern is to maximize the opera-
tional efficiency of its existing facilities and optimize its
use of the country's energy resources. The proposed project
seeks to achieve these objectives, through emphasis on improv-
ing the efficiency of thermal power stations, replacing oil
with natural gas as the primary fuel for power generation,
introducing a more effective maintenance management system for
thermal and hydro power plants, rationalizing the transmission
system, modernizing system operation and control, and further-
ing specific institutional capabilities.
The project includes:  (a) rehabilitation of 1290 MW of plant
at Tuanku Jaafar, Prai and Sultan Iskandar thermal power sta-
tions; (b) conversion of 600 MW plant at Tuanku Jaafar and
240 MW plant at Sultan Iskandar from oil to oil/gas firing;
(c) introduction of computerized maintenance management systems
at all major thermal and hydro stations; (d) modernization of
the national load dispatch center; (e) installation of regional
distribution control centers at Penang, Johor Baru and Klang;
(f) installation of about 72 km of 275 kV and 132 kV trans-
mission lines and nine 275/132/33 kV and 132/33 kV substations,
needed for rationalizing the power supply system for Kuala
Lumpur and its environs; (h) technical assistance to strengthen
NEE's capabilities in: (i) distribution system planning,
(ii) management services, (iii) materials management,
(iv) fixed assets accounting, and (v) human resoursces
development.



- iv -
The project is expected to contribute significant benefits in
the form of (a) fuel savings; (b) increased capacity, better
availability and prolonged plant life; (c) more efficient and
reliable system dispatch and control; (d) reduced losses and
greater transmission reliability; and (e) enhanced institu-
tional efficiency.
The project faces no substantial risks.
Estimated Costs /a
Local   Foreign  Total
--- (US$ million) ----
Thermal power plant rehabilitation                      3.2     13.3      16.5
Thermal power plant conversion
from oil to oil/gas firing                           2.6     10.6      13.2
Computerized maintenance management
system for thermal & hydro stations                   0.6      1.0       1.6
System control improvements                             3.6     20.1      23.7
Transmission system rationalization                    36.1     42.6      78.7
Consultancy services for: thermal plant
rehabilitation, distrbution system planning,
materials management, management services,
fixed assets accounting, and human
resources development                                 1.2      4.4       5.5
Total Base Cost                               47.2      92.0    139.2
Physical contingencies                                  4.7      9.2      13.9
Price contingencies                                     2.3      4.6       6.9
Total Project Cost                            54.2    105.8    160.0
Interest during construction
Bank loan                                              -      20.5      20.5
Others                                                 -        -         -
Total Financing Required                      54.2    126.3    180.5
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign    Total        Percent
Source of funds              -------- (US$ million) ------
World Bank                      0            100.0       100.0          55
NEB                           54.2            26.3        80.5         45
Total                     54.2           126.3       180.5        100



Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY                          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993
Annual                             1     16    26       22     15      11       9
Cumulative                         1     17    43       65     80     91      100
Rate of Return:
NEB's investment program                        12%
Thermal plant rehabilitation and
maintenance management                        20%
Transmission system for rationalizing
supply to Kuala Lumpur                        14%
Conversion from oil to gas firing             >100%
/a NEB is exempt from liability for import duties and taxes on the project.



MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overviaw
1.01      Over the last 15 years, Malaysia's commercial energy consumption
increased at an average rate of 8% from 3.8 million tons of oil equivalent
(MMTOE) in 1970 to 12.1 MMTOE in 1985. This was mainly due to growth and
structural changes in the economy. The average annual growth rate of GDP was
7%, in which industrial and services sictors expanded their shares from 22%
and 41% of GDP in 1970 to 29% and 51 in 1985. The growth in energy consump-
tion was primarily dependent on oil. Until 1983, the share of petroleum in
total energy coriumption was more than 90X. With the advent of natural gas
production, the share of oil declined in 1984 to 881, while natural gas (5%),
hydropower (4%) and coal (3%) comprised the remaining 12Z. The share of oil
in commercial energy consumption is projected to decline to 60% in 1990 and
49% in 1995$ while the share of natural gas is expected to increase to 27% and
38% respectively in these year3. The share of hydropower will remain around
4%, while that of coal will increase to 6X in 1990 and 11% b: the end of the
century. However, the projections regarding the increasing share of natural
gas are based on the assumption that appropriate promotional and pricing
policies will be in place, to encourage gas utilization in all sectors of the
economy.
B. Energy Resources
1.02      The principal indigenous sources of energy in Malaysia are crude
oil, natural gas, hydropower and traditional fuels (palm oil wastes, fuelwood
and charcoal). Proven reserves of crude oil are estimated at 3.5 billion
barrels. The production level, which was insignificant before 1967, reached
430,000 b/d in 1985. Although Malaysia's crude oil production is sufficient
to meet its domestic demand (presently about 200,000 b/d), the country depends
on imported crude and petroleum products to satisfy about 70% of its need.
This is because Malaysia's crude oil (being light and low in sulphur content)
fetches a premium in the world oil market but does not yield enough of the
fuel oil demanded in the country. Malaysia's net export of petroleum is about
230,000 b/d.
1.03      Proven and economically recoverable natural gas reserves in Malaysia
are oresently estimated at about 53 trillion cubic feet (tef).  Natural gas
produ-tion began on a commercial scale in 1983 at a rate of 314 million cubic
feet per day (MMCFD) and is presently about 1,200 MMCFD; of this about 85% is
fed into an LNG plant located in Bintulu (in Sarawak), s?hose output is sold to
Japan based on a 20-year contract. The remaining 15% is used in the combined
cycle power station in Paka, the TrenggaLu steel mill and the Labuan methanol
and hot briquetted iron plants, all of which are located on the east coast of
Peninsular Malaysia, to which the off-shore gas has so far been piped. Poten-



- 2 -
tial for increasing LNG exports is limited by a depressed international
market. Prospects of piped gas export are also limited to about 150-200 hMCFD
that the Singapore Public Utilities Board nay buy; however, no firm agreement
has so far been reached between the two countries. The largest potential for
utilization of natural gas is in the domestic market, most of which will be in
the power sector. This would however require construction of pipelines from
the east coast to the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia, where major
thermal generating facilities are located.
1.04      Hydropower resources are assessed at about 27,000 MW (123,000 GWh
per year). However, only about 13% of the hydro resources exist in Peninsular
Malaysia where some 83% of the total Malaysian population resides and more
than 90X of the electricity is consumed. Present hydro capacity in Peninsular
Malaysia is about 1,150 MW (3,000 GWh) and will reach 1,300 MW with the addi-
tion of plants currently under construction. Sarawak's hydropower potential,
on the other hand, is estimated at 20,000 MW (87,000 GWh per year), while
Sabah's major hydro sites are capable of producing 4,000 MW (20,000 GWh per
year). The Government has been seeking ways to harness Sarawak's hydro
resources. Presently, the most important hydro project under consideration is
Bakun with a potential capacity of 2,400 MW. This hydro site is located in
northern Sarawak and could provide power to Sabah, Sarawak, Kalimantan (in
Indonesia) and, through an 1,800-km AC and DC (overhead cum submarine link),
to Peninsular Malaysia. The timing to implement this project is at present
uncertain (para. 2.12).
C. Energy Consumption
1.05      Malaysia's energy consumption reached 14.2 MMTOE in 1985, of which
about 2.1 MMTOE vas supplied from traditional fuels and 12.1 MMTOE from
commercial sources. The agricultural sector consumed about 8% of the total
energy in 1985 but its share is forecast to decline to 5% by the year 2000.
The industrial sector consumed about 41% of the total energy in 1985. Diesel
oil (51%), fuel oil (25%), and electricity (24%) constituted about 60% of
energy consumption in this sector while traditional fuels made up the rest.
The share of this sector in the total energy is expected to grow to 46% by
1995. The transport sector accounted for 28% of energy consumption and 45% of
petroleum product consumption in 1985. The share of this sector in the total
energy consumption is forecast to declfne to 26% by the end of the century.
The residential/commercial sector accounted for 23% of the total energy
consumption. The residential sector consumed about 60% cf this energy.
Traditional fuels constitute 36% of the residential energy consumption while
kerosene (3SZ), electricity (14%) and LPG (11%) represent the balance. This
sector's share of energy consumption is expected to decline to about 18% by
the end of the century. The structure of the demand in the residential sector
is expected to change substantially; LPG (36%) and electricity (38%) are
projected to replace a large portion of traditional fuels.
D. Sector Institutions (Energy and Power)
1.06      Coordination in energy planning and implementation is achieved
through a high level Cabinet Committee on Energy. This committee, formed in
1980 and consisting of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister,



Ministers of Energy, Trade and Industry, and Science and Technology, is
responsible for developing the country's long-term energy policy, and
approving and supervising the implementation of energy plans and projects.
This committee is supported by a "Committee of Officials" chaircd by the Chief
Secretary to the Government and having representatives from Petronas, the
Treasvry, the Ministries of Energy, Science and Technology, Trade and
Industry, the National Electricity Board (NEB) and the Economic Planning Unit
(EPU).
1.07      Petronas, established in 1974 as a government company, has the
operating responsibility in the oil and gas sector. Malaysia's Petroleum
Development Act gives it exclusive rights tn supervise work programs for
exploration and production, and to negotiate production sharing agreements
with contracting oil companies. Petronas also has its own exploration
activities which are undertaken through a subsidiary company, Petronas
Carigali Berhad, formed in 1978. In addition, Petronas Gas Sdn Bhd (PGSB),
another subsidiary of Petronas, was created in 1984 to implement and operate
gas utilization projects in Peninsular Malaysia. Its activities include the
construction and operation of gas processing plants and gas transmission and
distribution facilities.
1.08      The responsibilities for power sector development and operation lie
within the province of the Ministry of Energy, Telecommunications and Posts
(MOE) and the three power utilities, NEB, the Sabah Electricity Board (SEB),
and the Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation (SESCO). NEB is responsible
for power generation, transmission and distribution in Peninsular Malaysia.
SEB and SESCO serve the same function in the two states on the island of
Borneo, which lies nearly 700 km east of Peninsular Malaysia. MOE serves as
the official channel between the utilities and the Cabinet Committee on Energy
and is responsible to ensure the efficient utilization of resources in these
utilities.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
A. The Power Market
2.01      Electricity supply in Malaysia grew at a rapid pace over the past
two decades. Total sales and per capita consumption increased from 1,210 GWh
and 125 kWh respectively, in 1965 to 11,940 GWh and 769 kWh in 1985. NEB's
share of total sales was about 90% (10,811 GWh in 1985). The industrial
sector has, since the 1970s, become the major consumer acccunting for 46% of
the sales in 1985. Commercial (33%) and residential (21%) sectors represent
the balance. Growth in total demand is tentatively projected at about 7% per
annum, much slower than the average historical rate of 12%. This is mainly
due to lower medium term growth prospects for the economy. The annual growth
rates of electdicity consumption in the industrial, commercial and residentiel
sectors are projected at 8Z, 5% and 7%, respectively.



- 4 -
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities
2.02      The Dower sector's present total installed capacity is 4,580 MW of
which 3,781 MW belongs to NEB. The major part (42%) of NEB's capacity is
based on oil fired steam plants, while hydro power (30%), gas fired combined
cycle (16%), oil fired combustion turbine (7%) and diesel (5%) comprise the
rest.  In 1985, NEB's total energy gener.tion was 12,730 GWh consisting of oil
(58%), hydro (24%), natural gas (9%) and diesel (9%). Annex 1 shows the
historical growth oi NEB's energy generatior, and installed capacity.  Annex 2
presents the growth of NEB's transmission and distribution facilities. With
tne development of natural gas resources, and along with continued exploita-
tion of hydropower, a fundamental transformation in fuel mix for electricity
generation is underway. The oil-based generation has reduced from 80% in 1980
to 58% in 1985 and is expected to decline substantially by 1991. This is on
the assumption that NEB's existing oil fired stations would be converted to
oil/gas firing by 1990. The share of natural gas in the total electricity
generation is expected to increase to 47% by 1990 while coal (23%), hydro
(17%) and oil (13%) are projected to make up the rest. Annex 3 shows the
forecast of NEB's energy sales, generation mix and installed capacity fir the
1986-95 period.
C. NEB's Development Program
2.03      A forecast of load growth, based on growth rates substantially lower
than earlier envisaged, was tentatively finalized by thh Bank's Power Sectot
Review mission (para. 2.12) in May 1986. According to thiu load forecast,
NEB's energy sales are projected to grow at 6.9% p.a. during the Fifth Plan
pe-iod (1986-90) and 7.3% p.a. during the Sixth Plan period (1991-95). The
breaLdown of sales forecast by consumer category is given in Annex 4.
2.04      To meet the growth in demand, the Bank's Power Sector Review mission
worked with NEB and using the WASP package, prepared a long-term generation
expansion program which is shown in Annex 5 and summarized in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF NEB'S GENERATION EXPANSION PROGRAM (1986-95)
(Addition in OW)
Fifth Five-Year Plan       Sixth Five-Year Plan
Fuel                          (1986-90)                    (1991-95)
Hydro                                   60                          -
Natural gas                            120                         900
Coal                                   600 /a                       -
Total                          780                          900
/a   This refers to Units 3 and 4 for the Port Klang power station, which are
expected to be commissioned in 1988 and 1989 respectively.



- 5 -
2.05      Plant additions ap to 1989 have already been committed and NEB will
have excess capacity until 1993; only thereafter do further capacity additions
become necessary. The least cost generation expansion program is predomi-
nantly based on combined cycle power plants buring natural gas.
2.06      Associated with the generation expansion program described above is
the followik.g transmission expansion program.
Table 2.2s SUMMARY OF NEB'S TRANSMISSION EXPANSION PROGRAM (1986-95)
Fifth Five-Year Plan   Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1986-90)               (1991-95)
Transmission lines (ckm)
275 kV                                   1,468                     670
132 kV                                   1,588                   1,040
Substations (MVA)
275 kV                                   2,840                   1,940
132 kV                                   3,045                   1,200
2.07      NE5's transmission expansion program is developed with the
assistance o. Westinghouse's Transmission Planning Software (TPS), which
yields the least cost sequence of development mee ing specified contingency
criteria.
D. Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Participation
Experience with Past Loans
2.08      The Bank has made elevEn loans to NEB for financing the expansion of
electricity generation and transmission capacity and development of rural
electrification. The projects under the first eight loans have been completed
and are operating satisfactorily. The implementation of the ninth power
project is also on schedule. The implementation of the tenth power project
(rural electrification) has been slowed down because of the Government's
decision to reduce investments on rural electrification and the minihydro
program due to constraints on its domestic resources. The project is expected
to be completed about two years behind schedule. The eleventh power project
is presently in the procurement stage and as procurement has been delayed, the
project is currently running about one year behind schedule.
2.09      The Project Completion Report for the eighth power project (Loan
1443-MA) noted the impressive financial and insti.tutional prc*ress made by NEB
and pointed out certain areas such as improvement in operation of thermal/
hydro plants and distribution system planning where strengthening was
required. The report also pointed out the need for reducing staffing in the
non-technical cadres. Bank's participation in the sector has thus helred NEB



- 6 -
to develop into a technically competent and efficient power utility. Through
its continuing dialogue with the sector institutions, the Bank has been
instrumental in assuring the overall adequacy of electricity tariffs and in
ensuring the sector's financial soundness. The Bank has also financed and
supervised a study on tariff structure (under Loan 2438-MA), some recommenda-
tions of which were taken into consideration by the Government while
introducing tariff changes in 1985.
Sector Strategy
2.10      The Malaysian economy is highly dependent on petroleum exports both
for foreign exchange earnings and for financing of its public expenditures.
In 1985, exports of petroleum generated about US$2.1 billion in foreign
exchange and supported more than 252 of all federal expenditures, or 902 of
federal capital spending. The rapid decline of oil prices has reduced
government petroleum revenues to an estimated level of US$1.1 billion in
1986. Because of both (a) increasing domestic use of petroleum and
(b) reduced export earnings from tin, palm oil and rubber, the economy faces
serious financiat constraints. Besides, the country's investment outiays have
been far above its national savings, resulting in a very large current-account
deficit that has to be financed through commercial borrowing. The Governme1.t
is therefore concerned that: (a) domestic use of petroleum will rapidly
absorb the share of exports which would in turn lead to a sharp decline in oil
revenues; (b) investment requirements of capital intensive and import-
intensive projects, including those of the energy sector, will impose in
increasing burden on public budget; and (c) the widening gaps between imports
and exports, and between investments and savings would increase the country's
debt-service ratio and resource gap beyond acceptable levels. It has decided
to remedy the aforementioned trend in the energy sector by: (a) more
efficient management of present (capital and manpower) resources; (b) more
stringent screening of major investment projects; and (c) diversification and
conservation of energy use to release more petroleum for export. The Bank
supports this strategy.
eationale for Bank Participation
2.11      In view of the present resource constraints facing the Malaysian
economy, issues of immediate concern to NEB are to optimize the utilization of
investments already made, reduce the operational costs of its facilities and
implement a fuel strategy based on substitution of oil (which is a scarce
resource) with natural gas (which is available in abundance). In financing
the proposed project, the Bank will be assisting NEB in realizing these
immediate prioritiea. Such assistance complements the continuing policy
dialogue with the Government on longer term issues facing the energy sector in
general and the power sector in particular. Indeed, since, the Government of
Malaysia is currently in the process of formulating its energy master plan, it
has sought the Bank's assistance to help it resolve some of the critical
issues. Concurrently with the appraisal of the proposed project, a Bank
Sector mission reviewed critical issues and options in the power sector. A
few of the critical issues addressed related to the cost of gas, the
feasibility of the 2,400 MW Bakun hydroelectric project and operational
efficiency aspects of the three utilities.



- 7 -
2.12      Some major tentative findings of this power sector review, regarding
NEB's investment and operation were:
(a) NEB's generation expansion program, prepared in September 1985 was
based on (i) a high load forecast; (ii) a gas cost based on
financial rather than economic considerations; and (iii) 1,500 MW of
power imported from the 2,400 MW Bdkun hydroelectric project. The
expansion program is instead recommended on the basis of: (i) a
lower load forecast; (ii) a newly computed economic cost of gas of
M$3.5/MKBTU on the West coast of Peninsular Malaysia compared to
about M$6.8/MMBTU used in earlier studies; and (iii) generation
expansion using gas as fuel in combined cycle plants.
(b) The 2,400 MW Bakun hydroelectric project costing about US$6 bil-
lion, would lock the power sector's investment program into a rigid
block of supply during a period when the country's financial
resources will be severely constrained and when the growth in demand
and thus the ability to absorb the additional electrical energy is
uncertain. Since the project is only marginally viable, the timing
of its construction should be chosen based on its economic advantage
over alternative energy sources.
(c) Substantial savings in NEB's generation costs can be achieved by:
(i) rehabilitating selected thermal stations and converting some
oil-fired steam units to gas firing; and (ii) implementing a plant
efficiency and maintenance management system.
(d)  NEB needs to:  rationalize the transmission system, install static
reactive power compensation, remodel its system control facilities
with introduction of new dispatch software and hardware, and
intensify operator training to achieve significant improvement in
system performance.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Introduction
3.01      The Borrower of the proposed loan will be the National Electricity
Board (NEB) of the States of Malaya (Peninsular Malaysia), an autonomous Board
owned by GOM. It was established under the Electricity Act of 1949. NEB
comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Minister of Energy, Telecommunica-
tions and Posts. It has responsibility for generating, transmitting, distri-
buting, and retailing electricity throughout the peninsula.
3.02      NEB's management enjoys broad indepe, ence in managing day-to-day
affairs. So long as it follows GOM guidelines, management provides the pre-
dominant inputs for decisions concerning planning, contracting, pricing, and
financing of investment. However, NEB must observe GOM procedures, particu-
larly those which concern the exercise of managerial responsibility and
deployment of staff.



- 8 -
B. 2rganization
Structure
3.03      NEB's operational and policy decisions are made by the Board of
Directors. All members of the Board are appointed by the Minister of Energy,
Telecommunications and Posts, who establishes their terms.  The Chairman of
the Board is the Chief Secretary to the Government and the Deputy Chairman is
NEB's General Manager.
3.04      NEB's organization chart is displayed in Annex 6.  Its operations
are divided into four major departments: Development Planning, Major Proj-
ects, Operations, and Administration. Each major department is headed by a
Deputy General Manager. The Development Planning Department, which combines
the functions of technical and financial planning, coordinates the activities
of the different departments. In addition to the four major departments, NEB
has a Corporate Audit Department and three other smaller specialized depart-
ments located at headquarters. Their activities include rural electrifica-
tion, materials management, and accounting. The officers in charge of these
activities report directly to the General Manager.
3.05      NEB's field activities are organized into six regional operations,
which are subdivided into district offices and stations; the regions are
identified as Northern, Perak, Selangor, Southern, Eastern and Federal
Territory. Some of the responsib%lities of the district offices include
billing and collections, erection and maintenance of distribution lines, and
operation and maintenance of diesel and mini-hydro plants within the
district. Station offices are generally units wkich operate and maintain
particular generating facilities or substations, or provide special services
to a particular local area. All remaining operational functions, including
load dispatch, are centralized and housed at headquarters.
Management
3.06      Decision-making at NEB is highly centralized with many decisions
concerning expenditures at field offices being made at headquarters. As NEB's
scope of business grows larger and its operations become more complex techni-
cally, the range of decision-making will increasingly exceed the capacity of
NEB's organization structure. Already, NEB's management recognizes that some
decisions are not being made sufficiently quickly to satisfy the needs of
field offices.  In turn, reports from field locations do not reach head-
quarters as rapidly as needed for decision-making purposes. NEB's management
has indicated that decentralization is becoming necessary; without some
devolution of responsibility within the next few years, increasing congestion
of the decision-making process could itself become the cause of ineffici-
ency. Over the next four to five years, NEB should prepare for decentraliza-
tion by (i) considering carefully the available approaches; (ii) developing
the absorptive capacity for coping with a major reorganization; and (iii) for-
mulating detailed plans to implement whatever approach is chosen. During
implementation of the proposed project, the Bank will offer all possible
assistance in discussing the issues posed by decentralization and weighing the
particulars of alternatives being considered by NEB.



9-
3.01      As a first step toward developing within NEB the necessary
absorptive capacity, the proposed project includes a provision of technical
assistance for enhancing the Management Services and Development Department
(para. 3.08). More than 10 years ago, NEB formed this Department to serve as
an in-house consultant regarding systems, procedures and organizational
matters. Nominally, this unit is under the control of the Deputy General
Manager (Administration); however, it was conceived as having auth-ority over
systemic and structural matters throughout the organization. The Department
has been functioning much more narrowly than had been intended, and has
limited its activities almost exclusively to diagnostic studies of systems and
procedures in use in other specific units.
3.08      As NEB moves toward decentralization, it will need a unit
functioning effectively in the manner that this Department was originally
conceived. During planning for decentralization, the unit would act as a
counterpart to external consultants and would consider technical means of
minimizing the dislocations resulting from reorganization. During the
reorganization, it would be responsible for implementing new systems and
procedures and for formulating appropriate adjustments to existing systems and
procedures. After reorganization, it would monitor and adjust information
flows and internal communications to ensure that the new decision-making
process functions as intended. The proposed project contains a provision of
technical assistance, which would be primarily interactional with NEB imple-
menting changes recommended by the consultants on an on-going basis, aimed at
enabling this Department to enhace its effectiveness. At negotiations, NEB
agreed that it will (i) by June 30, 1987, begin formulating and implementing
measures to enhance the Management Services and Development Detartment;
(ii) by June 30, 1988, prepare a report summArizing the activities undertaken;
and (iii) by September 30, 1988, discuss with the Bank those changes which
have been made, and implementation according to an agreed schedule of those
mutually acceptable changes which are still pending. Outline terms of
reference for the consultants, which were discussed and agreed in substance at
negotiations, are included in Annex 7.
Human Resources Development
3.39      NEB's establishment and staffing as of December 31, 1985,
distributed according to function, is shown in Table 3.1.



- 10 -
Table 3.1: NEB: ESTABLISHMENT AND STAFFING ALLOCATED BY DEPARTMENT
(As of December 31, 1985)
Approved       Filled
Department                                posts          posts          X
General Manager's Department
Materials Management                     915            741          8.
Accounts                                 535           516           96
Audit                                     66             56          85
Rural Electrification                    872         1,025          118
Advisory Staff                             1              1         100
Administration                            2,022          1,757          88
Operations                               20,270         19,780          98
Development Planning                         80             88         110
Major Projects                              981          1,008         103
Total                              25,742         24,972           97
NEB's complement of staff appears appropriate and fill rates appear satis-
factory.  Moreover, the ratio of consumers to employees is now about 84 to 1,
up from previous levels of about 75 to 1. However, NEB's management is con-
cerned about certain quantitative and qualitative aspects of staffing. Its
most important quantitative concern is the inadequate numbers of professional-
or technician-level sanctioned posts in almost every department. NEB can
address this matter but only gradually. In the short term, NEB is concentra-
ting on providing enhanced training and career development prospects for
promising though less than fully qualified existing staff. At working levels,
to meet pressing requirements, certain departments are carrying more than
their approved complement of semiskilled and unskilled staff. In the longer
term, NEB is planning to reduce semiskilled and unskilled staff. Some
measures being considered include subcontracting construction and maintenance
work to private firms where appropriate.
3.10      During the past few years, NEB has sought to upgrade the technical
capabilities of its middle-management and working level staff, especially in
the financial and accounting disciplines. In 1982, NEB constructed a Training
Institute to provide instruction in all phases of power utility operations.
The institute is one of the largest of its kind in the world, with a staff of
320 conducting about 230 courses for about 3,000-4,000 staff per year.
Training is given to all new recruits and to many existing personnel; in every
career stream participation in certain specified training courses is a
prerequisite for promotion. More time is needed for the impact of this
training effort to become assessable; however, the Bank is satisfied that the
steps WEB has taken in esta1olishing and developing the Training Institute are
comprehensive and appropriate.



- 11. -
3.11      In May 1985, to coordinate its quantitative and qualitative
approaches to human resources concerns, NEB established a Human Resources
Development Unit. This unit falls under the overall jurisdiction cf the
Deputy General Manager (Administration), while reporting directly to the
Director of Personnel Administration. This unit's objecti7e is improvement of
the approaches, systems and procedures NEB uses in the acquisition, selection,
development, deployment and management of human resources. The proposed
project provides for technical assistance in the form of an adviser to the
Human Resources Development Unit. Outline terms of reference, which were
discussed and agreed in substance at negotiations, are displayed in Annex 8.
At negotiations, NEB agreed to retain, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, an Adviser to its Human Resources Dsvelopment Unit.
Operation and Maintentance
3.12      NEB has been operating its plant and equipment properly and
efficiently. It has been conducting regular maintenance within the stipulated
intervals; moreover, the standards it has observed for major maintenance are
satisfactory. Still, NEB has significant scope to achieve better plant
efficiency and substantial cost reductions through further systematization of
its maintenance scheduling and practices. To this end, the proposed project
includes a provision for the development and introduction of a computerized
Maintenance Management System for thermal and hydro power plants (para. 4.05).
Transmission, Distribution and Losses
3.13      NEB has developed extensive transmission and distribution
networks. Most urban centers have comprehensive supply of electricity and
nearly 65% of rural agglomerations are already electrified. Estimated trans-
mission and distribution losses account for slightly less than 12% and
auxiliary consumption accounts for about 5% of generation. While these levels
are reasonable, NEB has scope for improving efficiency by reducing these
losses. The transmission losses can be reduced through the grid reinforcement
comoonents of the Bank financed Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2438-MA) and the
proposed project (para. 4.08); in turn, distribution system losses can be
addressed through a technical assistance being provided under the proposed
project (para. 4.02(e)(i)).
Load Dispatch
3.14      NEB has a central load dispatch system which is controlled from its
headquarters complex. While the system currently functions satisfactorily,
greater efficiency over a broader scope of operation can be achieved by
upgrades to its hardware and software and by remodeling. The proposed project
includes a provision for remodeling NEB's central load dispatch system
(para. 4.06).
Materials Handling
3.15      NEB has believed, for some -ime, that it can substantially improve
the efficiency of its stores management systems. The stores contain numerous
obsolescent items; many other items which are used are too plentifully stocked



- 12 -
or too inaccessible in the stores. To begin improving the efficiency of its
stores management, NEB hap already introduced a program for computerization
and stock rationalization in its central store. Additionally, it plans to
study the logistics of that store's operations and mazae adjustments as appro-
priate. However, an even greater improvement in stores management is possible
by systematizing the stocks and logistics of the many stores at field loca-
tions and by integrating those prospective systems with the ones in use at the
central store. The proposed project includes a provision of technical
assistance for materials handling aimed at integrating the systems and
logistics in use at all stores. At negotiations, NEB agreed that it will
(i) by June 30, 1987, begin developing and implementing a program to increase
its efficiency in materials handling; (ii) by September 30, 1988, complete the
analysis and discuss the primary conclusions with the Bank; (iii) according to
an acceptable timetable, implement those mutually agreeable systems and proce-
dures; and (iv) thereafter, maintain inventories at levels which are consi-
stent with the systems and procedures which have been adopted. Outline terms
of reference for the consultants, which were discussed and agreed in substance
at negotiations, are shown in Annex 9.
C. Financial Management
Accounting and Budgeting
3.16      NEB's accounting systems conform to modern power utility
practices. For the accounts that are maintained at NEB headquarters,
accounting applications such as general ledgers, payroll, inventory transac-
tions, accounts payable, and accounts receivable for the Federal Territory
area have been fully computerized. Otherwise, headquarters receives manually
prepared data from field offices and uses the computer to compile the infor-
mation and consolidate final accounts. Because of delays encountered by field
offices in preparing and transmitting accounting records and also the large
number of errors in those records needing reconciliation at headquarters, NEB
has not been able to process accounting information from the field for use on
a timely basis. In conjunction with the Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2438-
MA), NEB developed a "Distributed Source Data Generation Project" which will
permit computerization of raw accounting data at field offices and direct
transmission of the data to headquarters using computer equipment and telecom-
munications networks. Although implementation of this mechanization effort
has been delayed, it is now fully designed; the hardware is being ordered;
installation of the hardware should begin in 1987; and the system should be
fully operational by 1988. This effort should upgrade the quality and
timeliness of field accounts and enable headquarters to compile quarterly and
annual accounts more quickly than before.
3.17      NEB prepares annual budgets for its capital and operating expend -
tures. Periodically, reports are prepared enabling management to compare
actual results against budgetted amounts. In principle, when actual perfor-
mance differs substantially from the budget because of factors beyond manage-
ment's control, the budget should be revised based on those variance analyses;
in practice, however, MEB revises its budget periodically based on analysis of
available incomplete information. The budget process has been operating
satisfactorily and should become even more effective after completion of the
Distributed Source Data Generation Project.



- 13 -
Cormercial Systems
3.18      During the past several years, NEB has streamlined its billing and
collection system. Bills, prepared in advance by district offices, are
furnished to meter readers who complete them at the consume:'s premises and
deliver them by hand to customers. Payment of bills can be made through
district offices, post offices, and collection agents; the payments can either
be received directly against a bill or as part of a uniform payment system for
all utility bills. Customers are given one month to pay their bills and
required to maintain a guarantee deposit equivalent to about 60 days average
consumption.
3.19      In principle, NEB is authorized to disconnect any consumer who has
not paid his bill on time. However, because of delays inherent in the manual
maintenance of those customer accounts which are managed at field offices, a
consumer may be several weeks in arrears before the district office becomes
aware of the delinquency. In some rare cases, delays in the transfer of
information has resulted in NEB disconnecting consumers after their payment
has been received. Therefore, NEB prefers to remind customers of their
delinquency and disconnect only when their arrears exceed their guarantee
deposits. In any case, including unread meter accruals, accounts receivable
to the private sector should average between 40 and 45 days billings; they
have been averaging 50 days in recent years. NEB expects to improve on this
satisfactory performance after completion of the Distributed Source Data
Generation Project, when data is more readily available and delinquents can be
pursued more quickly. At that point, in conjunction with implementation of
the proposed project, NEB will develop accounts receivable targets which it,
together with the Bank, would monitor closely.
3.20      NEB follows the same procedures with government consumers that it
uses in billing and collecting from private sector consumers. However, the
results are less satisfactory. In the past few years, NEB has taken numerous
steps to minimize the financial impact of this problem. Most importantly, NEB
has stopped using Government as an intermediary in the billing arrangements
between NEB and a large number of public consumers. This has substantially
reduced the amount of Government billings and arrears. In 1985, sales to
government consumers represented about llX of NEB's revenues and receivables
from government consumers were averaging about 90 days billings.lY  Although
NEB has the authority to disconnect selectively delinquent government
consumers, it prefers to use high level moral suasion with parent ministries
of delinquent agencies, where possible using interventio,i from the Treasury.
During negotiations, the Bank discussed with the Borrower methods and incen-
tives to ensure the timely payment of bills by all consumers; this matter will
be pursued on an ongoing basis during implementation of the proposed project.
1/   The interest which NEB foregoes by carrying government receivables for an
average of 40 days longer than private sector receivables is about
M$700,000, or substantially less than one tenth of 1X of revenues.



- 14 -
3.21      NEB has been keeping current in paying its creditors.  For capital
construction, most contracts stipulate that NEB should remit payment within
60 days of receiving an invoice. In practice, NEB has been realizing an aver-
age payment period of 50 days for meeting these obligations. For most operat-
ing purposes, payments are due within periods ranging from 14 days to 30
days. In recent years, NEB has been realizing average payment periods of 17
to 24 days for meeting these obligations. This performance is satisfactory.
Management Information System
3.22      During the past few years, NEB has developed an interim on-line
Management Information System. While the system is integrated vertically, it
is not integrated horizontally. As the scope of NEB's business grows, the
system needs to become broader and the inputs from the various departments
need to become more consistent. NEB has the in house capability to conduct
the necessary development effort to upgrade the system. During implementation
of the proposed project, the Bank will review and discuss NEB's efforts to
expand and integrate its Management Information System.
Audit
3.23      According to law, all government owned Corporations and Boards are
required to close their accounts within six months of the conclusion of the
financial year and thereafter furnish the compiled accounts for audit by the
Auditor General. Owing to a shortage of staff, the Auditor General has
decided to retain external auditors to audit NEB's annual accounts; that audit
would then be subject to approval from the Auditor General's office. During
the past several years, the external auditors selected have included (i) Price
Waterhouse and Company to audit NEB's headquarters' and consolidated accounts
and (ii) Hanafiah, Raslan, Mohamad and Partners to audit field office
accounts; with NEB closing its books and compiling annual accounts within six
months of the end of the financial year, the auditors should be capable of
pioducing an audit within an additional three months. This arrangement has
been accepted by the Bank in connection with the eleventh power project (Loan
2438-MA). At negotiations, NEB agreed that it will (i) furnish unaudited
financial statements to the Bank within six months of the end of NEB's
financial year, and (ii) furnish audited financial statements, together with
the certification and long form report prepared by an acceptable auditor, to
the Bank within nine months of the conclusion of NEB's financial year.
3.24      As required under the ninth power project (Loan 1808-MA), NEB
established a Corporate Audit Department which is directly responsible to the
General Manager. Its senior staff include aualified managers, engineers and
accountants and its responsibilities include auditing management and technical
functions as well as accounting operations. To strengthen the department,
additional staff have been employed and various training programs have been
conducted using assistance from NEB's external auditors. This unit has been
developing its activities and functioning satisfactorily.



- 15 -
Taxes
3.25      NEB has been exempted from paying income tax, development tax and
customs duties, since January 1980; however, the exemption from income tax is
scheduled to lapse after the conclusion of the 1986 financial year (August 31,
1986). Thereafter, NEB will be liable to pay 45X of taxable income, which is
defined as net income minus the excess of statutory deductions over deprecia-
tion. The statutory deductions are primarily related to gross fixed assets in
service and function as a substitute for accelerated depreciation.
Dividends
3.26      NEB is responsible for paying dividends to GOM.  Under the
Electricity Act, dividends in any year may not exceed 6% of paid-in capital;
the exact amount is determined each year by NEB's Board of Directors. Because
of financial constraints that NEB was experiencing at the time, no dividends
were declared in the financial years 1980, 1981 and 1982. A dividend of 5% of
paid-in capital was declared in each of 1983, 1984 and 1985; however, NEB
withheld remittance of the dividend payments in an attempt to offset some
government consumer arrears (para. 3.20). As of appraisal, NEB expected to
pay the dividend for 1983 in the financial year ended August 31, 1986; and
advised that the payments for 1984 and 1985 would be remitted in 1987; those
for 1986 and 1987 would be remitted in 1988; and NEB would remain current
thereafter.
Insurance
3.27      Since 1964, NEB has kept on retainer a firm charged with providing
expert advice regarding risk management. In turn, NEB has chosen to self-
insure against minor risks while purchasing commercial coverage against major
risks. NEB reviews its program of insurance each year to ensure that these
coverages remain appropriate. These arrangements remain acceptable to the
Bank.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      With the recent sharp decline in her traditional exports and foreign
exchange earnings (para. 2.10), Malaysia is facing severe resource constraints
in the medium term future. In this environment, NEB's immediate concern is to
maximize the operational efficiency of its existing facilities and to optimize
its use of the country's energy resources. The proposed project seeks to
achieve these objectives, through emphasis on improving the efficiency of
thermal power stations, replacing oil with natural g'as as the primary fuel for
power generation, introducing a more effective maintenance management system
for thermal and hydro power plants, rationalizing the transmission system,
modernizing system operation ard control, and furthering specific
institutional and management capabilities.



- 16 -
B. Project Description
4.02      The project includes the following components:
(a) Thermal Stations: Plant Rehabilitation and Conversion
(i)    Rehabilitation of plant at (1) the Tuanku Jaafar power station
(4x60 * 3x120 MW); (2) the Prai power station (3x120 + 3x30
MW); and (3) the Sultan Iskandar power station (2x120 MW).
(ii)    Conversion of 600 MW of plant at the Tuanku Jaafar power
station and 240 MW of plant at the Sultan Iskandar power
station from oil to oil/gas firing.
(b) Maintenance Management Systems for Thermal and Hydro Stations
Introduction of computerized maintenance management systems at the
Tuanku Jaafar, Prai, Paka, Sultan Iskandar, Port Klang and Connaught
Bridge thermal stations and at the Perak River, Cameron Highlands
and Kenyir hydro stations.
(c) System Control Improvements
ii)    Modernization of NEB's existing national load dispatch center
including installation of necessary communication equipment.
(ii)    Installation of three regional distribution control centers at
Penang, Johor Baru and Klang to provide SCADA (supervisory
control and data acquisition) functions.
(d) Transmission Lines and Substations for Power Supply to Kuala Lumpur
Installation of about 72 km of 275 kV and 132 kV transmission lines
and nine 275/132/33 kV and 132/33 kV substations, needed for
rationalizing the power supply system, reducing system losses and
improving the reliability of supply for the rapidly growing area of
Kuala Lumpur and its environs.
(e) Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance to strengthien NEB's capabilities
in the following areass
(i)    distribution system planning, management, operation and
maintenance, construction, loss assessment and reduction
(para. 3.13);
(ii)    organizational efficiency through the conduct of a study to
upgrade the management services department (para. 3.08);
(iii)    materials management (para. 3.15);



- 17 -
(iv)    fixed assets accounting through the conduct of a fixed assets
inventory (para. 5.05); and
(v)    human resources development (para. 3.11).
Thermal Station Plant Rehabilitation
4.03      The main items of plant rehabilitation for the three power stations
are listed in Annex 10. A substantial portion of work for the Tuanku Jaafar
and Ptai power stations concerns revamping of the control and instrumentation
systems of the 120 MW units. This will permit shorter start-up and shutdown
times, improved operational flexibility and reliability to meet the anti-
cipated two-shift operation and reduced operating cost through monitoring of
plant parameters and functioning at optimum levels. The resulting estimated
improvements in plant performance are indicated in Annex 23.
Conversion of Oil Fired Units to Oil/Gas Firing at Tuanku Jaffar and
Sultan Iskandar
4.04      Petronas' prospective gas pipeline projects for transporting gas
from the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia to the west coast and to the
southern tip of the peninsula, are expected to make gas available for the
Tuanku Jaafar and Sultan Iskandar power stations by 1990. The option to burn
oil would be retained after conversion, as a fall back measure against failure
of gas supply.
Maintenance Management Systems for Thermal and Hydra Stations
4.05      NEB proposes to install computerized maintenance management systems
with a view to (a) producing plant maintenance schedules; (b) retrieving basic
plant technical data; (c) producing routine maintenance reviews; (d) control-
ling stores inventory; (e) optimising labor resources; (f) issuing job
instructions and procedures; and (g) monitoring budget expenditures. The
above features would lead to more efficient and less costly maintenance and
better plant availability. The computers will be: (a) Tuenku Jaafar, Prai
and Paka thermal stations -- mini computer with 10-12 user terminals;
(b) Sultan Iskandar, Port Klang, Connaught Bridge thermal stations -- super
micro computer with 3-5 user terminals; and (c) Perak River, Cameron Highlands
and Kenyir Hydro stations -- micro computer with 2-3 user terminals.
System Control Improvements
4.06      Upgrading the Exiscing National Load Dispatcb. Center (NLDC).
Upgrading of the NLDC will cover installation of new computers with associated
hardware and necessary telecontrol systems. The upgraded system will
incorporate: (a) Energy Management System (EMS) to achieve (i) online
automatic control; (ii) unit commitment; (iii) production costing;
(iv) economic dispatch; (v) contingency analysis; (vi) spinning reserve
monitoring; (vii) interchange scheduling; and (b) Advanced Power System
Software (APSS) incorporating features such as (i) network configuration;
(ii) state estimation; (iii) security assessment; (iv) dispatcher's load flow;
and (v) online dispatcher's training simulator.



- 18 -
4.07      Regional Distribution Control Centers at Penang, Johor Baru and
Klang. Due to extensive distribution system expansions in the aforementioned
areas the need has arisen for introducing computerized Regional Control
Centers to perform the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) func-
tions for the network in their jurisdictions and to communicate with the
NLDC. The proposed control centers will achieve: (a) secure and safe opera-
tion of the distribution network; (b) monitoring and control of distribution
equipment; (c) handling of local district emergencies (faults); (d) supervi-
sion and control of switching operations at tIe substations; and (e) inter-
action with the NLDC.
4.08      Transmission Lines and Substations for Rationalizing Power Supply to
Kuala Lumpur. This project covers rationalization of the power supply system
in the rapidly growing area of Kuala Lumpur city and its environs. The system
was designed by NEB using Westinghouse's Transmission Planning Softw.re (TPS),
and is the least cost solution towards improving system reliability and
reducing losses. It involves creation of a 275 kV ring to feed power into the
existing 132 kV system through new 275/132 kV substations. The project
requires nine Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) substations, with a total
installed transformer capacity of 2,190 MVA (Annex 14). Particulars of the
transmission lines covered by the project are given in Annex 15.
C. Cost Estimates
4.09      Annexes 10-16 give detailed cost estimates for the project compo-
nents. All costs are based on December 1986 prices; physical contingencies
are at 10%. The price contingencies which amount to about 4.5% of the base
cost plus physical contingencies, are computed on the basis of the following
escalation factors:
Year                          1987       1988      1989       1990       1991
Local cost escalation Z        3.0        1.0       1.0        1.0        3.5
Foreign cost escalation X      3.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       3.5
4.10      Table 4.1 summarizes the project cost estimate.  The estimate is net
of taxes and duties (para. 3.25).



- 19-
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE /a
M$ (miilions)              US$ (millions) /b    Foreign cost
Local  Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign  Total  as X of total
Thermal power plant
rehabilitation                     7.9   33.1      41.0       3.2      13.3    16.5         80.6
Thermal power plant
conversion from oil to
oil/gas firing                    6.4   26.6       33.0       2.6      10.6    13.2          80.3
Computerized maintenance
management system for
thermal & hydro stations           1.5    2.4       3.9       0.6       1.0      1.6         62.5
System control improvements          9.0   50.2      59.2       3.6      20.1    23.7          84.8
Transmission system
rationalization                  90.3  106.6    196.9        36.1      42.6    78.7          54.1
Consultancy services for thermal
plant rehabilitation, distri-
bution system planning,
materials management,
management services, fixed
assets accounting and human
resources development             2.8   11.1       13.9       1.1       4.4      5.5         80.0
Total Base Cost               117.9  230.0    347.9        47.2     92.0   139.2           66.1
Physical contingencies (10S)        11.8   23.0      34.8       4.7       9.2    13.9          66.1
Price contingencies                  5.7   11.6      17.3       2.3       4.6      6.9         66.7
Total Project Cost            135.4  264.6    400.0        54.2    105.8   160.0          66.1
Interest during construction
Bank loan                           -    51.3      51.,        -       20.5    20.5         100.0
Others                              -      -         -         -         -        -            -
Total Financing Required    135.4  315.9    451.3          54.2    126.3   180.5           70.0
/a   December 1986 price levels.
Th   Exchange rate 1 US$ = 2.5 M$



- 20 -
D. Financing Plan
4.11      The financing plan for the proposed project is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Local          Foreign    Total        Percent
Source of funds              --        (US$ million)----
World Bank                      0            100.0       100.0          55
NEB                           54.2            26.3        80.5         45
Total                     54.2           126.3       180.5        100
The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million will meet about 55% of the total
project cost and about 79% of the foreign cost (including interest during
construction). NE8 will finance the balance 45% of the project cost from
internal cash generation.
E. Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
Project Implementation and Consulting Services
4.12      Based on an indepth review of specific proposals for thermal plant
rehabilitation and improvement in operating performance identified in separate
studies made by two consultants, Gilbert Commonwealth International and the
Tokyo Electric Power Services Co, an NEB task force developed a list of neces-
sary equipment. However, NEB will be seeking consultancy arsistance for
developing detailed specifications and in supervising implementation of these
efforts. NEB has made its own studies of its load dispatch system and has
developed detailed requirements for its modernization; moreover, it has
previously engineered regional distribution control centers, and has prepared
equipment specifications for the load dispatch center and the regional control
centers. Feasibility studies have already been completed for rationalizing
the transmission system for 2upply to Kuala Lumpur; detailed equipment speci-
fications have also been developed. Outline terms of reference, which were
agreed upon in substance during negotiations, have been drafted for technical
assistance relating to enhancement of -he Management Services and Development
Department, human resources development, materials handling, fixed assets
accounting and distribution system planning (Annexes 7, 8, 9, 20, 24). A
total of 430 man-months of technical assistance for these various activities
are envisaged. The break-up and cost estimates, including details of each of
the major consultancies, are provided in Annex 16.
Procurement
4.13      Equipment and services fi.:suced under the proposed Bank loan would
be procured by Internatioral Competidive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the



- 21 -
Bank's procurement guidelines. Consulting services financed under the Bank
loan would be engaged in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Under ICB,
local manufacturers will be permitted to participate where appropriate and be
eligible for a preference of 15% of the CIF cost of the imported goods or the
prevailing custom duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower, in the
evaluation of bids.
4.14      All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$2,000,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review
or procurement documents. About 80% of the procurement documents are likely
to be reviewed. Most major equipment for the proposed project is expected to
be imported. Conductors for transmission lines, miscellaneous items like
control cables, etc., which are now available in the country and are of good
quality, and civil works for substations will not be financed by the Bank
loan. These items will be reserved for local procurement through NEB's normal
procedures which are satisfactory.
4.15      The following major procurement packages are proposed for ICB:
(a) thermal plant rehabilitation and conversion -- (i) control and instrumen-
tation, (ii) conversion of boilers to gas/oil firing, (iii) miscellaneous
rehabilitation equipment; (b) cen-ral load dispatch and control center equip-
ment; (c) substations -- (i) switchgear, (ii) transformers; and (d) trans-
mission lines including towers, insulators and erection works.
4.16      Table 4.3 summarizes the allocation of the proposed IBRD loan for
procurement of goods and services for different project components.



- 22 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project component                               ICB   LCB  Others   NA /a  Cost
Thermal plant rehabilitation                   15.2    -       -     3.6   18.8
(15.2)                      (15.2)
Thermal plant conversion from oil to
oil/gas firing                               12.2    -       -     2.9   15.1
(12.2)                      (12.2)
Maintenance management system                   1.1    -       -     0.7    1.8
(0.4)                       (0.4)
System control improvements                    23.1    -       -     4.1   27.2
(23.1)                      (23.1)
Transmission system rationalization
-- lines                                      8.1  11.0      -     2.8   21.9
(8.1)                       (8.1)
-- substations                               41.0  22.7      -     5.0   68.7
(37.0)                      (37.0)
Consulting services                              -      -     5.2    1.3    6.5
-          (4.0)          (4.0)
Total                                    100.7  33.7    5.2   20.4  160.0
(*96.0) T0.0)  (4.0)  T(.0)(100.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate financing from the Bank loan.
/a   Refers to NEB's expenditures for its own staff, administration and
overheads and miscellaneous local mater;als.
Disbursements
4.17      The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items procured through ICB;
and (c) 100% of expenditures for consulting services.
4.18      Reimbursements of expenditures relating to contracts valued at less
than US$200,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs need not be submitted
to the Bank but should be retained by NEB and made available for review by the
Bank supervision missions. To facilitate projcict disbursements, a Special
Account in a fully convertible currency will be established in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the
Special Account is US$7.5 million, representing four months average project
expenditure. Replenishments to the Special AccQunt would be made quarterly or
whenever the Account is drawn down by about 505 of the initial deposit.



- 23 -
4.19      Retroactive fiaancing would be permitted to the extent of
US$1.0 million equivalent, for payments made prior to the date of loan
agreement, but after July 1, 1986.
4.20      Annex 17 gives the disbuvsement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan. This is in line with the Bank's profile of disbursements for power
proj"4cts for the East Asian region.
Implementation Schedule
4.21      Annex 18 gives the implementation schedules for the various elements
of the project. All project components are expected to be implemented by
1990. NEB will be the primary agency responsible for implementation of all
project components. Plant rehabilitation and conversion work will be super-
vised by consultants. The contractor appointed for the maintenance management
system will install, test and commission the systems and train NEB's personnel
in operating the systems. Transmission lines will be constructed on turn-key
basis by the contractor with NEB arranging for the necessary way leaves.
Civil works for the substations will be entrusted to a few local contractors,
while erection and commissioning of the switchgear and transformers will be
undertaken by the equipment sui'pliers. Insallation and commissioning of
computer systems hardware and software for the NLDC and other distribution
control centers will be done by NEB engineers with supervisory assistance from
the equipment suppliers.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.22      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project
in terms of physical execution and financial reports, have been agreed with
NEB who will furnish quarterly progress reports.
F. Environment
4.23      The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
Impacts. In fact, the rehabilitation of thermal plant would lead to less
pollution, especially in cases of conversion from oil to gas firing. The high
voltage substations proposed for Kuala Lumpur and the surrounding areas will
be of indoor GIS (Gas Insulated Switchgear) design, necessitated by space
shortage. This design would be aesthetically more acceptable than large out-
door substations. Transmission circuits will be placed underground where
necessary. The control center equipmsants will be housed in existing
buildings.
V. FINANCE
A. Introduction
5.01      NEB conducts its financial affairs as though it were a corpora-
tion.  In that context, NEB has responsibility for maintaining satisfactory
revenues, meeting its expenses and debt service, formulating and financing its
investment program (with guidance from GOM), and mobilizing resources for COM



- 24 -
through payment of taxes and dividends.21 NEB has the legal authority to set
or adjust its tariff; but it does not adjust the tariff in a manner contrary
to 0OM policy.
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.02      NEB's finAncial performance for the period 1982-85 is displayed in
Annex 19 Key financial indicators for that period are presented in
Table 5.1.
2/   In order to rcduce pressure for increasing revenues,  0OM elected to
exempt NEB from paying taxes (para. 3.25) and remitting dividends
(para. 3.26) during 1980-86.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF NEB'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1982-85
Financial Year ended Augusst 31          1982       1983        1984        1985
-- Actual ---------------
Power sold (MkWh)                       8,368      9,047       9.892      10,811
Average revenue (Sen/kWh)                22.0       22.2        22.2        22.3
Avg. Revenue - Constant prices                                  22.2        22.3
Operating revenue (M$ million)        1,842.4    2,013.1    2,199.6    2,403.5
Tot. op. exp. & taxes (M$ million)  1,597.5    1,634.9    1,575.5    1,774.3
Net operating income (M$ million)       244.9      378.2       624.1       629.2
Net income after tax (M$ million)    255.2 /e   413.5 /e   654.2 /e   676.5 /e
Dividend (M$ million)                     0.0       44.9        42.4        42.4
Rate base (M$ million)                2,772.9    2,921.2    3,175.7    3,323.6
Primary ratios:
Rate of ret. - Hist. assets           15.3%      26.8%       36.5%       36.3%
Rate of ret. - Reval. assets          12.4Z      17.0%       24.1%       24.0%
Self financing ratio /a               48.0%      50.7%       40.9%      47.1%
Debt service coverage                   3.6        4.2         3.9         2.7
Debt/debt plus equity /b              44.5%      45.7%       44.8%       44.0%
Dividend yield /c                      0.0%       1.3%        1.0%        0.%
Operating ratio                       86.7%      81.2%       71.6%       73.8%
current ratio /d                     119.6%      98.1%      110.5%      115.6%
Accounts receivable - mos.              1.4         1.7        1.7         1.7
Accounts payable - months               2.0        2.2         2.4         1.6
/a   The ratio of cash available for investment divided by that specific
year's capital expenditure.
/b   The ratio of long term debt divided by the sum of long term debt plus
equity (net of any reserve for revaluation of assets).
/c   The ratio of dividends to total equity (including reserves for revalua-
tion of assets).
/d   The ratio of current assets net of liquidity investments divided by
current liabilities net of overdrafts.
/e   The anomaly of net income after taxes exceeding net operating income
occurs because NEB accounts for credits for transfers from the
contributions accounts as a non operating item. In these years, NEB has
been granted a tax holiday and the combination of non operating income
and these transfers has exceeded interest charged to operations.
5.03      NEB has been a strong financial performer during the recent four
years. This strong performance was the direct result of rate increases in
1980 and 1981. Til'l then, NEB was slow in adjusting its rates to reflect the
impact of fuel price increases, particularly those resulting from the second
oil shock of 1979. Subsequently, after oil prices softened in 1984, NEB
waited to assess the likely impact of the trend before lowering its rates



- 26 -
twice during the current financial year (on September 1, 1985 and March 13,
1986). Based on current rates, NEB's revenue is expected to average 20.3
sen/kWh and 19.3 sen/kWh in the financial years ended August 31, 1986 and 1987
respectively. Even at those lower levels, NEB is expected to show good
financial results (paras. 5.16-5.18 and TaWie 5.3).
Fixed Asset Accounting
5.04      During the past four years, NEB has re.orded astonishingly high
rates of return on its fixed assets in operation (Table 5.1). This results,
inter alia, from NEB's following excessively rigid fixed asset accounting
rules. In effect, assets are not transferred from work in progress to gross
fixed assets unless NEB headquarters receives completion certificates from
relevant construction supervisors. Often, these certificates have been
received several years after revenue producing assets have been taken into
commercial operation.  Thus, historically valued gross fixed   sets in
operation might be understated by as much as M$1,400 million.3/ In addition,
despite affirmations to the contrary from NEB's auditors, this practice may
have led to understatements of depreciation, operation and maintenance
expenses, and interest charged to operation, and also to a resultant over-
statement of profits. Because of the tax holiday, NEB has not incurred any
financial liability related to overstating its profits; however, by over-
stating its rate of return, NEB has aroused unrealistically high expectations
of its financial capabilities.
5.05      To provide a more accurate record of its rate base, NEB should first
ascertain exactly which of its fixed assets have been taken into commercial
operation and which are properly still under construction. Then, it should
introduce accounting rules enabling it to take into the rate base a signifi-
cant portion of those assets which have been placed in operation but for which
a completion certificate has not been received. The proposed project includes
a provision for a review and update of NEB's fixed asset accounts aimed at
addressing both of these requirements. At negotiations, NEB agreed that it
will (i) conduct an inventory as of August 31, 1987 of its fixed assets, and
(ii) incorporate the results of that fixed asset inventory into its annual
accounts for 1987. The proposed project includes a provision for NEB to hire
consultants to conduct this activity. Outline terms of reference, which were
discussed and agreed in substance at negotiations, are provided in Annex 20.
3/   Because of the difficulty in identifying the year of completion of each
of these assets, the past statements could not be recast to show the
effect of capitalizing them at the correct time.  In the financial
projections (Annex 19), one-third of these assets were assumed to be
cap4'alized at the end of the 1986 financial year with the remainder
being capitalized at the end of 1987. Thus, all rate of return figures
from 1988 onward are related to a properly computed rate base.
Preliminary estimates for the years 1983-86 suggest that rate of return
on revalucl assets may be overstated by as much as 8% in each year.



- 27 -
5.06      While its audited annual accounts record fixed assets valued at
historical cost, WEB does revalue its assets in memorandum form and provides
the result of that revaluation to the Bank annually. To conduct this
exercise, NEB uses a "fixed asset deflator" furnished to it by GOM. In turn,
in developing this "deflator", GOM makes adjustments to the index for past
years as well as deriving the new value for the current year; consequently, in
its annual application of the new index, NEB has been making changes to its
past annual accounts. According to the proposed terms of reference, the
consultants conducting NEB's fixed asset inventory will be asked to review the
methodology for using the "fixed asset deflator" and recommend whatever
changes are appropriate.
Liquidity
5.07      Under past projects, NEB has agreed to maintain its current ratio in
excess of 1.1 to 1. NEB has complied with this agreement in 1984 and 1985 and
expects to continue in compliance at the end of the current financial year.
For purposes of this agreement, current ratio is defined as current assets net
of investments of excess liquidity divided by current liabilities net of over-
drafts. Originally, the Bank sought this agreement because NEB was experi-
encing severe liquidity constraints. During the last four years, however, NEB
has enjoyed comfortable liquidity; in instances when it has encountered
periodic cash constraints, NEB has enjoyed easy access to short term credit.
Therefore, the Bank will waive agreement to current ratio targets in connec-
tion with the proposed and past power projects in Malaysia. Instead, during
implementation of the proposed project, the Bank will monitor closely those of
NEB's current accounts which reflect its operational efficiency. After
completion of the Materials Handling Technical Assistance (para. 3.15),
inventories will be compared with targets that are consistent with the
consultant's acceptable recommendations. After completion of computerization
of NEB's bi'ling and collection systems (para. 3.19), accounts receivable will
be compared with targets that can then be established and agreed as being
appropriate. Trade payables will be monitored to ensure that NEB continues to
follow current satisfactory practices (para. 3.21).
Foreign Exchange Exposure
5.08      As of August 31, 1985, NEB had long term borrowings exceeding
M$3,050 million, of which more ttan M$2,700 million were denominated in
foreign currency. As of that date, the current value of WEB's portfolio of
borrowings exceeded its book value by about M$77 million, or about 3%. In the
intervening period, the Ringgit has weakened somewhat against the US dollar;
and the Yen, the currency of NEB's primary exposure, has strengthened markedly
against the US dollar. Consequently, NEB risks realizing substantial foreign
exchange losses during the next few years. NEB is taking steps to manage its
foreign exchange. Where possible, WEB is taking advantage of refinancing
opportunities to reduce the cost and exposure of its existing foreign exchange
loans. Also, in order to plan and cushion the effects of foreign exchange
losses, WEB has been considering creating and maintaining an exchange stabili-
zation reserve. At negotiations NEB gave an undertaking that it will
introduce into its year end accounts for 1986, policies and practices which
properly reflect the impact of its foreign exchange exposure and which would



- 28 -
be designed and implemented in accordance with international accounting
standards (while also being consistent with Malaysian accounting practices).
C. Tariff
5.09      NEB has adjusted its tariff twice during the current financial
year. The first adjustment, which was introduced on September 1, 1985, effec-
tively reduced average revenues by about 10% by reducing mist rates almost
equally. The second adjustment, which was introduced on March 13, 1986,
effectively reduced average revenues by about 5% while giving certain selec-
tive groups of large consumers discounts of between 10% and 20%. The tariff
that had been in effect until September 1, 1985; the tariff that had been in
effect between September 1, 1985 and March 13, 1986; and the tariff that is
currently in effect are all displayed in detail in Annex 21.
5.10      When adopting the tariff that was introduced on September 1, 1985,
NEB developed a structure of rates that represented a step toward long run
marginal cost, and levels of rates which were producing revenues similar to
those which would be expected from a long run marginal cost based tariff. As
a result of increases in plant efficiency and substitution of natural gas for
oil as the primary fuel for NEB's thermal plants, the levels of long run
marginal cost are expected to decline. In the future, financial consider-
ations will guide pricing decisions. During the next few years, NEB will
attain its financial objectives even without increasing its tariff, thus
actually dropping its rates gradually in real terms. Thereafter, to meet its
financial objectives, NEB projects maintaining the real value of its rates,
coincidentally at levels consistent with long run marginal cost. Such a
tariff policy is acceptable.
D. Financing Plan
5.11      NEB's financing plan for the period of implementation of the
proposed project, 1987-91, is provided in Table 5.2.
5.1'      The proposed project, including interest during construction (and
commitment charges), represents only a modest 6% of NEB's investment program
for the period. The proposed Bank loan, which would be extended directly to
NEB for a term of fifteen years (including three years of grace on repayment
of principal) and bearing the standard variable interest rate, is expected to
meet only 3% of NEB's total financing requirement for the period.



- 29 -
Table 5.2: NEB'S FINANCING PLAN, 1987-91
M$ mln.        US$ mln.        Pct.
Internal Cash Generation
Met income before interest                 5,390.4         2,156.2          72X
Depreciation                               2,681.8         1,072.7          36%
Gross consumer contributions                 747.5           299.0          101
Net disposal of fixed assets                   9.0             3.6           0%
Operating Cash Flow                     8,828.7         3,531.5        117%
(Less) Working capital incr.                 279.6           111.8          4%
(Less) Taxes payable                       1,498.4          599.4          20X
(Less) Dividend payable                      212.1            84.8          3X
Cash Avail. for Debt Service            6,838.6        2,735.4          91%
Debt Service
Interest charged to operations             1,110.6           444.2          15X
Principal repayments                       1,988.3           795.3          26%
Total Debt Service                      3,098.9         1,239.5         41I
Cash Avail. from Operations                3,739.8         1,495.9          50%
Capital Investment
Proposed Project                             400.0           160.0          5%
Other projects                             6,478.2         2,591.3          86Z
Capitalized interest                         659.8           263.9           9%
Total Capital Investment                7,538.0        3t015.2         100%
Balance to be financed                     3,798.2         1,519.3          50%
Sources of Finance
Govt. contributions - RE projs.              342.2           136.9           5%
Consumer deposits                            166.9            66.8           2%
IBBD Lns. for ongoing projects               166.5            66.6           2%
B Loan - IBRD Projects X & XI                125.0            50.0           2%
IBRD Loan - Proposed Project                 250.0           100.0           3%
Committed and existing other loans           798.6           319.4          11%
Further borrowings                         1,949.0           779.6          26%
Total Finance                           3,798.2         1,519.3         50%



- 30 -
5.13      During the period, NEB expects to meet about 501 of its overall
investment needs from internal cash generation. In addition, 7% of its finan-
cing requirements would be met from other sources related to operations,
including consumer deposits and government contributions for extending rural
electrification distribution lines. In addition to the proposed loan, the
Bank expects to finance 2X of NEB's investment requirements through existing
loans (Loans 2146-MA and 2438-MA) and assist in meeting another 21 of NEB's
financing requirements through arrangements for a B loan. That loan, which is
expected to close during Autumn 1986, would provide US$50 million to finance
portions of both the tenth and eleventh power projects. Based on prelimin*ry
responses to the announcement, the B loan is projected as bearing a nominal
interest rate of 8.51 and a term of 15 years, including a grace period of
three years on repayment of principal. About 11% of NEB's investment require-
ments are expected to be met from other loans for which NEB has already
received commitments; the remaining 26% of NEB's investment program would be
financed by other loans for which sources have still not been confirmed. NEB
is not expecting to encounter substantial difficulties in raising this neces-
sary additional finance. Based on commercial terms which foreign lenders have
recently made available to NEB, these further borrowings are projected as
bearing a nominal interest rate of 8.5X and a term of ten years, including
three years of grace on repayment of principal.
5.14      Because its current debt/total capital (net of any reserve for
revaluation of assets) ratio is only 44% and it intends to meet only about 431
of its investment needs from borrowings during the period, NEB projects that
equity will continue providing the majority of its capital for the foreseeable
future. However, owing to its sizeable existing and projected foreign
exchange exposure, substantial unfavorable variations in exchange rates could
suddenly weaken NEB's capital structure. To ensure its continued financial
viability, at negotiations, NEB agreed to forgo incurring additional debt if
such additional debt would raise NEB's total debt to more than 60% of total
capital (net of any reserve for revaluation of assets). NEB has given, and
consistently complied with, similar assurances under past Bank projects.
E. Future Finance
5.15      Projections for NEB's financial performance for the period 1986-95,
together with assumptions underlying those projections, are presented in
Annex 19. Key financial indicators are presented in Table 5.3.
5.16      Between now and 1995, NEB expects to consolidate the growth it has
undertaken during the recent few years. Through 1988, it expects to complete
the substantial expansion, launched in the early 1980s, on the basis of growth
projections that were higher than were subsequently realized. From 1989-1992,
NEB expects a period of modest investment (in real terms) while currently
projected growth in demand reduces reserve margins to reasonable levels. From
1993 onward, NEB will begin a program of sizeable new investment in order to
meet new expectations of growth in demand.
5.17      Under past projects, NEB has given assurances that it would take
steps, including but not limited to increasing its tariff, to realize revenues
sufficient to meet its cash operating expenses, all interest chargeable to
operations, debt repayment, income taxes, dividends payable and at least 30%



Table 5.3: PROJECTED KXY FINANCIAL INDICATOPS, 1986-95
Financial year ended Aug 31        1986      1987     1988      1989       1990      1991       1992       i993      1994       1995
Projections --
Power sold (MkWh)                  11,367   12,128   12,973   13,982    15,059    16,190    17,399    18,656    19,995    21,425
Average revenue (Sen/kWh)            20.3      19.3     19.3      19.3       19.3      19.3       19.3       19.3      19.3       19.6
Avg. revenue - Constant prices       20.3      19.0     18.6      18.5       18.3      17.9       17.3       16.7      16.1       15.8
Operating revenue (MS mln)        2,311.8  2,345.2  2,508.5  2,703.5   2,911.6   3,130.2   3,363.8   3,606.7   3,865.4   4,208.8
Tot. op. exp. & taxes (M$ aln)  1,703.0  1,623.6  1,882.0  1,967.8   2,124.8   2,371.2   2,659.6   2,918.3   3,194.7   3,497.4
Net operating income (M$ mln)       608.8    949.2    972.1  1,056.4   1,052.4   1,097.9   1,050.3   1,067.7   1,019.7   1,042.8
Net income after tax (M$ mln)       597.2    709.9    608,6    703.2        751.1     736.2      673.5     679.2      681.3      708.7
Dividend (M$ million)                42.4      42.4     42.4      42.4       42.4      42.4       42.4       42.4      42.4       42.4
Rate base (M$ million)            3,962.3  5,621.4  7,090.4  8,057.9   9,465.8  10,915.6  11,998.9  12,833.1  13,701.2  14,808.7
Primary ratios:
Rate of ret.
- Hist. assets (X)               31.6     23.5      16.2      15.5      13.7       11.7       10.6      10.2        9.9        9.8 S
Rate of ret.
- Reval. assets (%)              19.4      15.9     11.4      11.6      10.5        9.0        7.8       7.3        6.8        6.7
Seif financing ratio /a (x)        49.1      58.4     44.9      40.8      46.8       56.3       42.0      41.6       34.5       37.9
Debt service coverage               2.7       3.1      2.4       2.0        1.8       2.0        1.8        2.0       1.9        1.9
Debt/debt plus equity /b (X)       43.6      41.8     42.0      41.0      38.4       35.8       35.7      36.5       38.4       39.0
Dividend yield /c (X)               0.8       0.7      0.6       0.5        0.5       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.3        0.3
Operating ratio (%)                73.7      59.5     61.2      60.9      63.9       64.9       6R.8      70.4       73.6       75.2
Current ratio /d (Z)              105.8      88.7     86.8      93.7     104.1      100.3      101.9      99.8      105.8      116.6
Accounts receivable - mos.          1.7       1.6      1.6       1.6        1.5       1.5        1.5        1.4       1.4        1.4
Accounts payable - months           1.7       1.8      1.7       1.5        1.4       1.4        1.6        1.7       1.7        1.5
/a  The ratio of casb available for investment divided by that specific year's capital expenditure.
T7  The ratio of long term debt divided by the sum of long term debt plus equity (net of any reserve for revaluation of
assets).
Jc The ratio of dividends to total equity (including reserves for revaluation of assets).
7_ The ratio of current assets net of liquidity investments divided by ctirrent liabilities net of overdrafts.



- 32 -
of its average annual investment program.41 NEB has complied with this
agreement during the past four years and expects to continue doing so during
the projection period. Therefore, at negotiations, NEB renewed this agree-
ment. Also, at negotiations, WEB agreed further that, unless the Bank accepts
otherwise, it may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
net revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times NEB's projected debt service require-
ment. NEB has complied and expects to continue complying consistently with
this agreement.
5.18      In complying with these agreements, NEB would continue its accept-
able financial performance and would remain in sound financial health. Either
through compliance with the 30% contribution to investment target or simply
maintaining the nominal value of rates where the previous year's tariff
provides net revenues sufficient to exceed that target, NEB would be self
financing annually an average of 45X of its investment program during the
period 1987-1995. At the same time, rate of return on revalued assets would
average 10X; rate of return on historically valued assets would average 14%;
and the debt service coverage ratio would average 2.1 (while never dipping
below 1.8). Throughout the period, NEB should continue enjoying satisfactory
liquidity.
5.19      While the rate of return on revalued assets remains satisfactory on
average throughout the projection period, that indicator does drop sharply
through 1992 and remains at only marginally satisfactory levels thereafter.
This trend reflects the drop in real terms in electricity rates. That drop in
the real value of rates is acceptable because the level at which rates are
expected to stabilize is compatible with long run marginal cost. Moreover,
the other financial indicators suggest that even with lower real rates, dEB
will retain a strong base of equity capital and remain highly profitable
through 1995.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.01      The project addresses important operation and investment efficiency
issues. It includes several components whose justification is presented
below.
Rehabilitation/Conversion of Thermal Power Stations
6.02      Rehabilitation of thermal stations and introduction of computerized
maintenance management, is aimed at achieving increasing capacity, higher
efficiency, better plant availability and improved operational control, and
4/ The average of (a) its investment programs for (i) the immediately
preceding year and (ii) the current year and (b) its expected investment
program for the next year.



- 33 
forms part of the least cost development planning of NEB. A major portion of
plant rehabilitation at Tuanku Jaafar and Prai thermal stations concerns
revamping of the entire control and instrumentation systems. These systems
have been operating very unsatisfactorily, with the tnits kept running by
ad hoc modifications and vigilant manual control.  Hente, changing these
systems is necessary not only for improved performance, but also for continued
safe and reliable operation of the plant. Conversion of thermal plart from
oil to gas firing is imperative wherever gas becomes available, in view of the
large differential in the economic cost of gas (M$3.5/IMMRTU on the west coast
(para. 2.12)) and the projected cost of fuel oil (M$?.3/MMBTU, based on
US$120/ton). Tuanku Jaafar power station on the west coast and Sultan
Iskandar power station in the south will be converted to gas firing by 1990,
whereas Prai in the north will continue as an oil-fired station.
System Control Improvements
6.03      The telecontrol system and computers at the existing national load
dispatch center have serious capability limitations for performing the
envisaged functions for a growing system, apart from obsolescence, nonavail-
ability of spares and poor response time. Renovating the NLDC is essential
for efficient load dispatch and reliable system monitoring. Regional distri-
bution control centers at Penang, Johor Baru and Klang will perform the
supervisory control and data acquisition functions necessary .or improvement
in performance of the rapidly expanding distribution networks in these areas.
Transmission System Rationalization
6.04      While NEB has adequate generating capacity, there are several
bottlenecks in its transmission system leading to inefficient and often
unreliable system operation. NEB has a substantial program, for strengthening
its EHV and HV transmissi n networks over the next five years.  The proposed
project covers rationalization of an important portion of the transmission
system which is sssential for meeting the demands of the rapidly growing area
of Kuala Lumpur and its surroundings, with acceptable levels of reliability
and reduced losses.
B. Economic Rate of Returu
6.05      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) has been comiruted fnr
the entire NEB's (1986-95) investment program as well as for ouch of the
project components for which an estimation of the cost and benefit streams
could be carried out. Evaluation of IERR for system control u:entars has not
been attempted as benefits are not quantifiable; however, the benefits (in the
form of more efficient dispatch of generating units, better system sneurity
and faster restoration of service) are expected to fully justify the costs.
NEB's Investment Program
6.06      The IERR of NEB's (1986-95) investment program, based on "direct"
benefits measured in terms of revenues, is about 12% (Annex 22), which is
higher than the opportunity cost of capital (10%). With the incorporation of
consumer surpluses, based on the demand functions for various customer groups,



- 34 -
the IERR increases to 22%. Sensitivity tests for higher and lower demand
scenarios (Anne. 4) yield IERRs of 142 and 9% respectively.
Internal Economic Rate of Return for Project Components
6.07      The IERs of the project components have been computed in Annex 23
and the results are summarized below:
Project Gomponent                        IE_
(a) Thermal power plant rehabilitation and
computerized maintenance system
(i)  Base case                                       19.8%
(ii)  With 20% increase in capital costs              16.2%
(iii) With 25% reduction either in projected
electricity genieration or in
projected fuel prices                          18.4%
(b)  Conversion from oil to gas firing                    >100%
(Pay back period
less than 1 year)
(c) Transmission lines and substations for
supply to Kuala Lumpur
i)  Base case                                        13.9%
(ii)  With 20% increase in capital costs              12.2%
(iii)  With project delay of 2 years                   11.0%
(iv)  With 20% lower demand realization               11.0%
6.08      The evaluation of IERRs for thermal plant rehabilitation does noc
take into account the significant intangible benefits that would result from
increased safety and reliability of plant operation and prolongation of plant
economic life. Thus the IERk values are conservative. Likewise, the evalua-
tion does not consider the benefits of enhanced reliability and more efficient
operation resulting from rationalizing the transmission system for Kuala
Lumpur, as quantification of these benefits is not feasible.
C. Risks
6.08      The project faces no substantial risks.  There is a possibility that
a delay in construction of the gas pipe line could delay conversion of Tuanku
Jaafar and Sultan Iskandar to gas firing. However, as conversion will retain
oil burning capability of the aforementioned plant, there is no risk of loss
of generation. The economic rate of return on gas firing equipment is high
enough to tolerate delays in gas availability. Right of ways for transmission
lines and plots for substations are already available for the project
component for rationalizing supply to Kualua Lumpur; her.ce no delays are
foreseen on this account.



- 35 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreement with NEB
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were obtained from NEB regarding the
following:
(a) NEB will (i) by June 30, 1987, begin formulating and implementing
measures to enhance the Management Services and Development Depart-
ment; (ii) by June 30, 1988, prepare a report summarizing the
activities undertaken; and (iii) by September 30, 1988, discuss with
the Bank those changes which have been made, and implementation
according to an agreed schedule of those mutually acceptable changes
which are still pending (para. 3.08).
(b) NEB will retain an Adviser to the Human Resources Development Unit
(para. 3.11).
(c) NEB will (i) by June 30, 1987, begin developing and implementing a
program to increase its efficiency in materials handling; (ii) by
September 30, 1988, complete the analysis and discuss the primary
conclusions with the Bank; (iii) according to an acceptable time-
table thereafter, implement those mutually agreeable systems and
procedures; and (iv) thereafter, maintain inventories at levels that
are consistent with the systems and procedures which have been
adopted (para. 3.15).
(d) NEB will (i) furnish unaudited financial statements to the Bank
within six months of the end of NEB's financial year, and (ii)
furnish audited financial statements, together with the certifica-
tion and long form report prepared by an acceptable auditor, to the
Bank within nine months of the conclusion of NEB's financial year
(para. 3.23).
(e) NEB will (i) conduct an inventory as of August 31, 1987 of its fixed
assets; and (ii) incorporate the results of that fixed asset inven-
tory into its annual accounts for 1987 (para. 5.05).
(f) NEB will forgo incurring additional debt if such additional debt
would raise NEB's total debt to more than 60X of total capital net
of any reserve for revaluation of assets (para. 5.14).
(g) WEB will take steps, including but not limited to increasing its
tariff, to realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operating
expenses, all interest chargeable to operations, debt repayment,
income taxes, dividends payable and at least 30Z of its average
annual investment program (para. 5.17).
(h) NEB will, unless the Bank accepts otherwise, incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures
for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1,3 times NEB's projected debt service requirement
(para. 5.17).



- 36 -
Undertaking from NEB
7.02      In the agreed minutes of negotiations, an undertaking was obtained
from NEB that it will introduce into its year end accounts for 1986, policies
and practices which properly reflect the impact of its foreign exchange expo-
sure and which would be designed and implemented in accordance with interna-
tional accounting standards (while also being consistent with Malaysian
accounting practices) (para. 5.08).
Recommendation
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of $100 million.
to NEB.



ANNEX I
- 37 -
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT RIHABILITATION PROJECT
NEB's Actual Electricity Sales, Generation, Peak Demand, Installed Capacity and Number of Employees
FY65      FY70       FY75       FY80          FY81        FY82         FY83        FY84         FY85
Electricity Sales (GWh)        1 072.0   2,171.0   3,981.0      7 265.0      7 803.0      8 368,0      9 047.0     9,892.0    10 811.0
Domestic                       163.0     268.0      474.0     1,148.0      1,302.0      1,457.0      ,804.0       2,000.0     2 224.0
Commercial                     346.0     599.0   1,113.0      2,151.0      2,333.0      2,518.0      2,877.0     3,165.0      3,571.0
Industrial                    263.0      576.0   1,481.0      2,744.0      2,959.0      3,202.0     3,736.0      4,170.0      4,487.0
Mining                         280.0     352.0      303.0        294.0       285.0        285.0        488.0        463.0       427.0
Public lighting                 20.0      23.0       40.0        65.0         69.0         75.0         85.0        94.0        102.0
Sales to PRHEP /a                0.0     353.0      570.0       863.0        855.0        831.0         57.0          0.0          0.0
Gross generation (CWh)        1I240.5   2,498.1   4,652.5       8,466.1      9,099.5      9 817.4    10 730.6    11,705.1    12 730 4
Hvdro                       370,7      927.9    ,789.2      l125.6       1,422.9      l,216.9      1,476.3     2,812.9      3,70035
Oil                         625.8   1,375.9   3,536.2       6,430.8      6,797.4      7,665.8     8,406.6      8,192.5      7,433.2
Diesel                       152.5     100.1      175.9       621.0        574.6        641.3        766.5       630.5      1,090.5
Natural gas                   0.0        0,0        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0      1,097.1
Bulk purchase                91.5       94.2      151.2       288.7        304.6        293.4        81.2         69.2        106.1
Peak Demand (MW)                 155.0     364.0      693.0     1,427.0      1,541.0      1,637.0      1,638.0     1,978.0      2,148.0
Installed Capacity (MW)         300.8      663.9      734.3     2,047.6      2,177.5      29407.0     2,577.7      2,906.4      3 781.2
Hydro                         =1  * 2    T6.4      BT.T         613.4        613.4        613.4        726 4       846 5      1 1467
Oil                            140.0     360.0      540.0     1,210.0      1,330.0      1,560.0      1,612.0     1,612.0      1,570.0
Diesel                         49.6       38.5      48.9        124.2        134.1        134.5        139.4       251.9        204.5
Combustion turbine /b           0.0        0.0        0.0       100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       260.0        260.0
Combined cycle                                                                                                                  600.0
Number of Consumers           314,050   458,967   704,377   1 258 477   1 390 128   1 537 647   1 806 781   1 965 162   2 124 676
Domestic                       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.   1,062,679   1,180,866   1,316,127   1,548!599   1,687:594   1!832:406
Commercial                     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.     191,059      204,175      216,351     250,649      270,033      284,165
Industrial                     n.a.       n.a.      n.a.        2,830        2,993        2,962       4,175        4,041        4,274
Mining                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.           59          61           58          538         485          434
Public lighting                n.a.       n.a.      n.e.        1,850        2,033        2,149        2,820       3,009        3,397
employees
Number of employees         7,899.0   9,405.0  11,331.0    19,248.0    21,144.0    22,137.0    24,285.0    24,882.0    25,144.0
Consumers/employee              39.8      48.8      62.2         65.4         65.8         69.5         74.4        79.0         84.5
Sales per employee (MWh)      135.7      230.8      351.3       377.4        369.0        378.0        372.5       397.6        429.9
Employees/KW installed         26.3       14.2       15.4         9.4          9.7          9.2         9.4          8.6          6.7
/a Perak River Hydro Electric Project.
/b Combustion turbine operated on medium fuel oil.



MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEB's Transmission and Distribution Facilities
FY65      FY70       FY75       FY80      FY81       FY82       FY83       FYR4      FY85
Transmission Lines (ckm)
275 kV                            0         72       157        372        488       733        813        813      1,161
132 kV                          380       830        982      1,879      1,922     2,120      2,176      2,343     2,517
66 kV                           329        498       534        572        581       618        761        861        761
Substations (Capacity in MVA)
275 kV                            0          0      860.0   1,940.0   2,480.0   2,660.0   3,3RO.0   3,380.0   4,680.0
132 kV                         279.2   1,122.2   1,512.2   2,885.0   3,775.0   3,965.0   4,445.0   4,843.0   4,963.0
66 kV                          330.5     452.0      609.8      701.7      851.8     698.8   1,239.8   1,293.8   1,331.0   X
33/22 kV                       226.0     414.2      893.5   1,508.0   1,658.9   1,803.9   2,405.5   2,614.3   2,882.7
11 kV & below                  425.6     763.4   1,401.9   3,050.8   3,292.2   3,300.2   3,785.2   4,253.4   4,716.1
Distribution Lines (ckm)
33 kV                           730        858       899      1,454      1,246     1,331      1,378      1,413      1,445
22 kV                            92        132       172        186        212       223      2,060      2,030     2,098
11 kV                        2,005      3,050      4,912      9,433     9,743    10,342    11,757    12,559    13,004
Below 11 kV                     388      360.2      301.2       440        522       540        726        764        817



MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast of NEB's Electricity Sales, Generation, Peak Demand & Installed Capacity
FY86      FY87       FY88       FY89       FY90       FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94       FY95
Energy sales (GWh)          11,430    12,128    12,973    13,982    15,059    16,190    17,400    18,656    19,996    21,426
Net generation (GWh)/a    12,736    13,587    14,527    15,652    16,865    18,121    19,453    20,838    22,315    23,889
Generation Shares (%)
Oil                           62         60         43         26         13        1-2       1-2        1-2        1-2        1-2
Hydro                         22         20         20         18         17         17        15         14         13         12
Natural gas                   16         20         37         34         47     56-57      61-62      63-64      65-66      67-68
Coal                           -          -          -         22         23        25         22         21         20         19 1
Load Factor (M)                 67         67         67         68         68         68         68        69         69         69  '
Peak Load (MW)               2,233      2,377      2,539      2,734     2,938      3,152      3,379      3,614      3.863      4,127
Installed Capacity (MW)    4,173        4,173      4,173     4,741      4,921      4,921      4,921      5,171      5,453      5,699
Oil                        1,785      1,785      1,785      1,753                  405        405        355        355        355
Hydro                      1,236      1,236      1,236      1,236     1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296
Natural gas                  900        900        900        900     2,548      2,548      2,548      2,848      3,148      3,448
Coal                           -          -          -        600       600        600        600        600        600        600
Diesel/combustion
turbine                     72         72         72         72        72         72         72         72         54          0
/a Net of station auxiliary requirements.
I!



40                               ANNE 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast of Electricity Demand by Consumer Category: Base Case
(MGh)
Public
Year     Industrial   Commercial   Residential   Mir_ng    lighting    Total
1986       4,669          3,721         2,415        455         105       11,367
1987       4,995          3,904         2,657        459         111       12,128
1988       5,388          4,095         2,901        471         117       12,973
1989       5,862          4,333         3,160        502         124       13,982
1990       6,392          4,581         3,433        522         130       15,059
1991       6,967          4,843         3,704        540         136       16,190
1992       7,589          5,119         3,990        558         142       17,399
1993       8,247          5,400         4,285        575         148       18,656
1994       8,957          5,698         4,594        592         154       19,995
1995       9,725          6,011         4,919        609         160      21,425



- 41 -                                  ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT RERABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast of Electricity Demand by Consumer Category:  Low Case
(GWh)
Public
Year     Industrial   Commercial   Residential   Mining    lighting    Total
1986       4,749          3,820         2,472        455         105       11,601
1987       4,980          3,952         2,674        459         111       12,176
1988       5,247          4,108         2,888        471         117       12,831
1989       5,572          4,285         3,113        502         124       13,596
1990       5,938          4,491         3,352        522         130       14,433
1991       6,328          4,708         3,589        540         136       15,301
1992       6,744          4,935         3,839        558         142       16,218
1993       7,188          5,173         4,102        575         148       17,185
1994       7,660          5,423         4,377        592         154       18,206
1995       8,164          5,685         4,665        609         160       19,283



-42-                             ANNEX 4
*fTable 3
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast of Electricity Demand by Consumer Category: High Case
(G;Wh)
Public
Year     Inoastrial   Commercial   Residential   Mining    lighting    Total
1986       4,842          3,848         2,514       455         105      11,764
1987       5,198          4,032         2,763       459         111      12,563
1988       5,637          4,251         3,028       471         117      13,504
1989       6,160          4,523         3,312       502         124      14,621
1990       6,730          4,837         3,614       522         130      15,833
1991       7,327          5,173         3,913       540         136      17,089
1992       8,039          5,533        4,228        558         142      18,500
1993       8,777          5,918         4,563       575         148      19,981
1994       9,577          6,331        4,915        592         154      21,569
1995      10,443          6,773        5,287        609         160      23,272



- 43 -                                ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEB's Lonm-Term Generation Expansion Program /a (1986-95)
Commissioning                                          Incremental    Total
date                                               capacity    capacity
Month     Year                  Plant                      (MW)        (MW)
December  1988       Port Klang #3 (coal/gas fired)        300         4,441
July      1989       Port Klang #4 (coal/gas fired)        300         4,741
January   1990       Conversion of Connaught Bridge    300-180         4,861
to combined cycle
June      1990       Sungai Piah (hydro)                    60         4,921
January   1993       Combined cycle                        300         5,221
June      1993       Oil-fired (retired)                   -50         5,171
February  1994       Combined cycle                        300         5,471
April     1994       Gas turbines (retired)                -18         5,453
March     1995       Combined cycle                        300         5,753
May       1995       Gas turbines (retired)                -54         5,699
/a Excludes additional capacity realization due to plant rehabilitation.
Includes 300 MW of combined cycle plant at Paka and 600 MW of oil/gas
fired capacity at Port Klang Phase I scheduled for cormissioning in 1986.



MALAYSIA - NAlIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
MANAGER
CORPORATE
AUDIT
r                                                     I
DEPUTY GENERAL       DEPUTY GEERAL        DEPUTY CEERAL         DEPT GEERAL
MANAGER FrOR  I      MANA'GER FOR    I    MAJNAGEER FOR       MAAE   AORI
OPERATIONS         ADMINISTRATION   I    DEVELOPMENT             PROJECTS
PLANNING
FINANCIAL          TRANSMISSION             CHIEF            CHIEF ENGINEER          MATERIALS
-    GENERATION  _    SECRETARY            PLANNING               SYSTEM             ACCOUNTANT       I     RURATLIN           MANAGEMENT
PIROJECT                             I ELECTRIFICATIONj
SYSTEMS            MANAGEMENT   [        TECHNICAL              THERMAL                                   Jt IYDRO
OPERATIONS            SERVICES             PLANNING    J         PROJECTS             ACCOUNTS             PROGRAM
SPEVCIIAL            HYORO      1DT
DISTRIBUTION          PERSONNEL                  CE              PROJECTS            PROCESSSIN; 
AREA              COMMERCIAL          RESEARCH AND                        |
MANAGERS              M MANAGER          DEVELOPMENT  J         ARCHITECT
-    TRAINING
WORLD BANK 30660



- 45 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
Management Services and Development Department-Corsultancy Study
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        In the context of the World Bank financed Energy Efficiency and
Plant Rehabilitation project, the National Electricity Board wishes to enhance
the effectiveness of its Management Service and Development Department. The
World Bank would finance the proposed consultancy. The World Bank will be
invited to review the consultant's report and make comments.
Objective
2.        Taking into account the significant changes in the National
Electricity Board (NEB) in the thirteen years since inception of the Manage-
ment Services and Development (MSD) Department, review the Department's role,
scope, objectives and operating particulars and make recommendations aimed at
enhancing the Department's effectiveness.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultant shall undertake the following:
(a) Review existing documentation and NEB's organizational requirements
to establish a formal definition of the role and scope of MSD,
appropriate to the changed circumstances which have already occured
within NEB.
(b) Based on NEB's present circumstances and the definition of MSD's
role and scope, assist in the development of intermediate term
objectives for MSD.
(c) Review MSD's structural and organizational relationships with NEB's
top management. Where appropriate, make recommendations regarding
changes in MSD's structural or communications patterns.
(d) Review MSD's manpo,ir and technology resource base and evaluate its
sufficiency to accomplish MSD's objectives. As appropriate, make
recommendations regarding adjustments to MSD's resource base.
(e) Review the analytical and presentational techniques currently being
used by MSD. To the degree possible, familiarize MSD with the most
modern techniques in use in similar organizational units in other



- 46 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
enterprises world wide. Where appropriate, recommend the intro-
duction of new analytical and presentational techniques.
(f)  Review organizetional relationships between MSD and those unics for
whom MSD is providing service under a particular project. As appro-
priate, make recommendations regarding changes that would enhance
internal effectiveness in MSD's pattern of operations and com-
munications.
(g)  Review the salesmanship approaches followed by MSD when seeking
acceptance and implementation of its findings. Familiarize MSD with
the salesmanship approaches in use in similar organizational units
in other enterprises world wide. Where appropriate, recommend the
introduction of new salesmanship approaches.
(h)  Assist MSD with the implementation of those recommended changes in
function, procedures, and techniques which NEB accepts. As appro-
priate, provide training to MSD staff in the use of new systems,
procedure and techniques.
(i)  Identify new skills required by MSD staff and new techniques for
which familiarization by MSD staff would be desirable. Make
arrangements for acquisition of these skills and familiarization
with those techniques.
j) NEB should be furnished with the following:
(i)    An inception report to be prepared two months after mobil-
ization, indicating the consultant's perception of MSD's role,
scope and objectives and an outline of the consultant's future
work program for implementing this complete assignment.
(ii)    An interim report, to be submitted within five months of
acceptance of the inception report, furnishing detailed recom-
mendations for adjustments of MSD's operations and a work
program to implement items (h) and (i) above.
(iii)    A final report, to be submitted within one month of receipt  of
comments concerning the interim report from NEB's management,
taking into consideration whatever decisions NEB's management
makes regarding the acceptance or lack thereof of the interim
report's recommendations.
(iv)    A concluding report, to be submitted within 12 months of
acceptance of the final report, discussing the effectiveness of
implementation of the final report's recommendations and
training of MSD's staff.



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFI%IENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Human Resource Development (HRD) Consultancy Sud
Terms of Reference
1.   Objectives
The objectives of the study are: (a) to interpret the manpower
requirements of the Board in line with it3 corporate objectives and plans;
(b) to ensure the establishment and implementation of effectivs staff career
development policy and processes; (c) to secure maximum contribution of
existing staff through effective policy of staff development, utilization,
selection and placement; (d) to ensure coordination of human resource
development and utilization activities carried out by the various departaents;
and (e) to promote greater commitment to organizational mission and goals,
harmony in staff relations, and enrichment of work life.
2.   Scope
The scope of services shall include development of:
(a) Systems
(i) Models for forecasting NEB's human resource requirements on
5-10 year basis indicatiing the demand, supply and satis-
faction levels under alternative recruitment strategies,
for appropriate occupational categories;
(ii) A system of job classification based on job analysis and
prescribed salary structures;
(iii)   Refined system of career structure and job clusters in the
Board;
(iv) Guidelines and/or formulae for manning standards for
staffing and audit purposes;
(v)   Records, formats, procedures and inforzation system to
support the total human resource planning functions,
including inventory skills, turn-over analysis, manpower
audit; and
(vi) Trained and capable counterparts to take over implementa-
tion and follow-up.



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
(b) Processes:
(i)   Installation and implementation of revised performance
appraisal system/process to cover all categories of staff
including managerial and professional;
(ii)   Installation and implementation of career development
planning and counselling for managerial, professional and
supervisory staff;
(iii)   Installation and implementation of goal-setting processes
for departmental, functional and managerial planning;
(iv)   Introduction and operationalization of instruments,
including aptitude tests, and psychological personality
profiling of employees, for recruitment, selection and
development purpoces;
(v)   Introduction, facilitation and operationalization of
organization development (OD) interventions with a view to
improve communications, teamwork and problem solving skills
among groups and individuals; and
(vi)   Treined and capable counterparts to take over the implemen-
tation and follow-up.
3.   Job Specification (HRD System)
The expert will be assigned to work with NEB counterparts in further
developing, consolidating and implementing the HRD system. He will be
responsible for designing, developlag, implementing and documenting framework,
policies, procedures, methods and format required for systematic and
coordinated human resources planning in NEB.
In particular he will:
(a) Formulate, develop and install a practical and effective system for
analyzing, classifying and identifying manpower resources in NEB for
forecasting purposes, including categorization of skills and jobs in
terms of type and level, and identification of self-contained
forecasting units requiring separate manpower forecats;
(b) Review the existing manpower inventory system and analysis of
distribution/utilization by pay grade, age, sex, ethnic group,
length of service, employment status, job classification, qualifica-
tion, and other pertinent factors. Such an inventory must include a
detailed analysis of individual skills and abilities covering all
categories of staff;
(c) Review And install a manpower audit system for systematic investiga-
tion, lescription, evaluation, accounting of available human
resources. The audit will address, interalia, recruitment and



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
termination patterns, absenteeism, availability, age distribution,
labor market trends, demographic factors, manning levels, and cost-
effectiveness of HRD programs;
(d) Design, develop and implement models for forecasting manpower
requirement based on projected demand and supply of manpower, and
taking into account prevalent u,npower environment, turn-over,
organizational plans and other pertinent input;
(e) Formulate and establish criteria, guidelines and methodologies for
determining manning levels for the main functions of NEB in
particular for distribution and generation departments/units;
(f) Develop and operationalize policies and strategies in manpower
recruitment, selection, education and training, placement and
development consistent with the overall objectives and strategies of
NEB;
(g) Advise the HRD Unit in particular and NEB management in general on
relevant measurer for enhancing human resources management;
(h) Coach and train staff of HRD Unit in the developrent, installation
and operationalization of HRD systems;
-i) Conduct seminars/workshops for HRD Unit and other NEB staff on HRD
systems;
(j) Compile, and present to NEB management the necessary documents and
reports and all aspects of the assignment, including progress
reports; and
(k) Perform any other appropriate duties he many be called upon within
his competence as a HRD System expert.
4,   Job Specification  (HRD Process)
(a)  tornulate, design and implement performance appraisal systems and
processes for appropriate categories of staff: managerial and
professional, subprofessional, and technical and clerical staff;
(b)  Formulate, design and implement career planning and counselling
systems and processes for managerial, professional and supervisory
staff;
(c) Formulate, design end implement M43-type planning processes at
departmental, functional and individual manager levels;
(d) Identify, and introduce appropriate instruments including aptitude
tests, psychological/personality profiling and others for staff
recruitment, selection and development purposes;



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Pe   4 of 4
(e) Identify key orgauizational concerns in LLN and conduct/facilitate
in collaboration with internal/external resource persons appropriate
OD interventions or communications, team building, problem solving
and other key concerns as identified;
(f) Analyze, identify, interpret and document the corporate philosophy,
values, objectives and strategies on HRD appropriate to the internal
and external environments of the organization;
(g) Advise HRD Unit in particular and NEB management in general on
relevant measures for enhancing human resource management;
(h)  Coach and train staff of HRD Unit on the philosophy, concepts,
thesis, methodologies and practices of OD;
Mi) Conduct seminars/workshops for HRD Unit and other NEB staff on HRD
processes;
,j) Compile and present to NEB management the necessary documents and
reports on all aspects of the assignment, including progress
reports; and
1k) Perform any other appropriate duties he may be called upon within
his competence as a HRD Process expert.



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATCION PROJECT
Materials Handling Consultancy Study
Terms of Reference
Introduction
In connection with the World Bank financed Energy Efficiency and
Plant Rehabilitation Project, the National Electricity Board (NEB) is
retaining a consultant to modernize its materials handling systems and
procedures. The consultant's charges will be met from the proceeds of the
World Bank loan; in turn, the World Bank will be invited to review the
consultant's progress and comment on the consultant's findings and
recommendations.
Objective
WEB is seeking consulting assistance in an effort to modernize its
materials handling systems and procedures. NEB is seeking to optimize its
capital investment in stocks and its cost of managing stores. In particular,
NEB is seeking to develop and implement:
(a) An appropriate computerized stores information system;
(b) Proper logistic systems for the efficient handling of materials; and
(c) Efficient store keeping systems and procedures which include appro-
priate levels of security.
Terms of Reference
1.        Assist WEB in determining a hierarchy of stores.  Those stores which
need to carry sufficient stock levels to justify computerization and which
possess logistical advantages should supply adjacent smaller stores.
2.        Assist WEB in determining the comparative advantages of an online
computerized system as opposed to a distributive system that employs physical
transfer of data. In the event that the system to be chosen would be hybrid,
assist NEB in determining which stores should use the online system and which
should use the distributive system.
3.        Assist NEB in determining hardware and software requirements based
on the computer system chosen as appropriate to WEB's needs. As needed,
assist NEB in evaluating available off the shelf software, and adjusting that
software to NEB's particular requirements.



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
4.        Within each store, recommend layout, storage methods and handling
methods that would minimize handling time and cost. In particular, recommend
proper storage and handling methods for cable and poles, to minimize losses
accruing from breakage of poles and deterioration of cable drums.
5.        Study the logistics of transporting purchased materials (a) from the
vendor to the regional stores; and (b) between stores. This study should
include an assessment of available technology for materials handling and make
recommendations regarding NEB's use of containers, palettes, specialized
vehicles, and any other categories of handling devices. To the degree that
NEB would purchase specialized devices, arrange for standardization of shapes,
sizes and weight.
6.        Assist NEB in preparing specifications and bid documents for the
purchase of specialized equipment to be used either in the stores or for the
transport of stocks.
7.        Assist NEB in developing store keeping procedures.  In particular,
assist in evaluating reorder points, optimum order quantitie3, maximum
quantities and the use of staggered deliveries from vendors. Also, assist in
developing systems and procedures for the issue of stocks with emphasis on the
use of free issue of some low cost items so as to optimize the cost of
accounting for stores.
8.        Develop systems of stores security.
9.        Design and manage the change over to the new materials management
system. During the change over, reduce the stocks of obsolete goods and
materials based on a physical check and feed back from NEB personnel. Train
NEB's stores staff in the particulars of the new systems.
10.       The consultant should inferface with any NEB study group or other
consultant developing systems and procedures which might have an impact on
materials handling. Specifically the maintenance management system being
developed for power stations should be considered when establishing storekaep-
ing procedures for those same power stations.
11.       The consultant shall furnish period progress reports as NEB may
require.



- 53 -
ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation
(14 million)
Item                                                 Local      Foreign     Total
Tuanku Jaffar Thermal Station
Rehabilitation of air heaters; rehabilitation
of high pressure heaters; modification of
drains; improvement of condenser vacuum;
improvement of burners; provision of
continuous chlorination                            2.0        11.5        13.5
Rehabilitation of instrumentation                    1.7         8.0         9.7
Subtotal                                          3.7        19.5       23.2
Prai Thermal Station
Rehabilitation of air heaters; rehabilitation
of high pressure heaters; modification of
drains; improvement of condenser vacuum;
improvement of burners                             1.5         7.3        8.8
Rehabilitation of instrumentation                    1.3         5.5         6.8
Subtotal                                          2.8        12.8        15.6
Sultan Iskandar Thermal Station
Improvement of condenser vacuum and
miscellaneous items                                0.2         0.8         1.0
Administration and Overheads                            1.2         -          1.2
Total Base Cost                                   7.9        33.1       41.0
Physical contingencies (10Z)                           0.8         3.3         4.1
Price contingencies                                    0.4         1.6         2.0
Total Project Cost                                9.1        38.0        47.1
US$ million equivalent                            3.6        15.2        18.8



- 54 -
ANNEX 1 1
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Computerized Maintenance Management System
for Thermal and Hydro Plants
(M$ million)
Item                                                 Local      Foreign      Total
Group A: Tuanku Jaffar, Prai, Paka (Thermal)
Computer hardware                                    0.3         0.8         1.1
Software and training                                0.2         0.3         0.5
Administration and overheads                          0.2         -          0.2
Subtotal                                          0.7         1.1         1.8
Croup B:  Sultan Iskandar  Port Klang,
Connought Bridge (Thermal)
Computer hardware                                    0.2         0.5         0.7
Software and training                                0.2         0.3         0.5
Administration and overheads                          0.1         -          0.1
Subtotal                                          0.5         0.8         1.3
Croup C:  Perak River, Cameron Highlands
and Kenyir (Hydro)
Computer hardware                                    0.1         0.3         0.4
Software and training                                0.1         0.2         0.3
Administration and overheads                         0.1          -          0.1
Subtotal                                          0.3         0.5         0.8
Total Base Cost                                   1.5         2.4         3.9
Physical contingencies (1OZ)                            0.2        0.3         0.5
Price contingencies                                    0.1         0.1         0.2
Total Project Cost                                1.8         2.8         4.6
US$ million equivalent                            0.7         1.1         1.8



- 55 -
ANNEX 12
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Thermal Power Plant: Conversion from Oil to Oil/Gas Firin8
(M$ million)
Item                                                 Local      Foreign     Total
Tuanku Jaffar Thermal Station
Gas-firing equipment for 3,60 MW units               1.2         6.8         8.0
Gas-firing equipment for 3,120 MW units              1.2         9.0        10.2
Miscellaneous station equipment                      1.4         3.2         4.6
Administration and overheads                         1.1          -          1.1
Total Base Cost                                   4.9        19.0       23.9
Sultan Iskandar Thermal Station
Gas-firing equipment for 2,120 MW urits              0.8         6.0         6.8
Miscellaneous station equipment                      0.7         1.6         1.8
Administration and overheads                         0.5          -          0.5
Subtotal                                          1.5         7.6        9.1
Total Base Cost                                   6.4        26.6        33.0
Physical contingencies (10X)                           0.6         2.7         3.3
Price contingencies                                    0.3         1.3         1.6
Total Project Cost                                7.3        30.6        37.9
US$ million equivalent                            2.9        12.2        15.1



- 56 -                            ANNEX 13
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - System Control Improvements
(M$ million)
Item                                                 Local      Foreign     Total
National Load Dispatch Center
Computer hardware                                    0.6         5.7         6.3
Software                                             0.3         2.8         3.1
Administration and overheads                         0.5          -          0.5
Subtotal                                          1.4         8.5        9.9
Distribution Cotntrol Centers - Penang, Johor Baru
and Klang
Computer hardware                                    2.0        22.0        24.0
Software                                             0.3         3.7         4.0
Communications equipment                              1.6       16.0        17.6
Civil works                                          2.7          -          2.7
Administration and overheads                          1.0         -          1.0
Subtotal                                          7.6        41.7       49.3
Total Base Cost                                   9.0        50.2       59.2
Physical contingencies (1OZ)                            0.9        5.0         5.9
Price contingencies                                    0.4         2.5         2.9
Total Project Cost                               10.3        57.7       68.0
US$ million equivalent                            4.1        23.1       27.2



-57 -                                  ANNEX 14
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Substations for Transmission System Rationalisation
Transformers         Switchgear (nos.)          Cost (M$ million)
Name                          No.  Voltage  MNA  275kV  32kV   33kV  llkV  Local  Foreign  Total
(kV)
Serdang                        2   275/132  240   14       16      12     -    11.4    29.7    61.1
2   132/33    45
LLN headquarters               2   132/33    90    -        9      10     -      6.6      7.2    13.8
Bandar Tun Razak               2   132/33    90    -        9      12    12      8.0     8.2    16.2
(Tet Lee)                    2    33/11    30
Titiwangsa (Jalan Pahang)    2   132/33    90    -          7      12     -      7.7      6.5    14.2
Jalan Galloway                 2   132/33    90    -       11      10     -      6.8      7.7    14.5
Pudu Ulu                       2   132/33    90    -       12      12     -      8.0      9.5    17.5
2    33/11    30
Segambut                       2   132/33    90    -       14      16    14      6.0    10.5    16.5
2    33/11    90
Kg. Lanjut                     -         -     -    -       6       -     -      0.7      2.4     3.1
D.C.A. Subang                  2   132/33    90    -        7      12    12      5.0      7.4    12.4
2    33/11    30
Total Base Cost                                                           60.2    89.1   149.3
Physical contingencies (10%)                                                     6.0      8.9    14.9
Price contingencies                                                              3.0     4.4      7.4
Total Project Cost                                                        69.2   102.4   171.6
MS$ million equivalent                                                    27.7    41.0    68.7
Switchgears                                                                      6.6    58.4    65.0
Transformers                                                                     4.1    23.9    28.0
Control & auxiliary equipment                                                    0.6      6.8     7.4
Land and civil works                                                            42.2       -     42.2
Administration and overheads                                                     6.7       -      6.7
Total Base Cost                                                           60.2    89.1   149.3
Physical contingencies (10%)                                                     6.0      8.9    14.9
Price contingencies                                                              3.0      4.4     7.4
Total Project Cost                                                        69.2   102.4   171.6
US$ million equivalent                                                     27.7    41.0    68.7



-58 -                          ANNEX 15
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Transmission Lines for Tranmission System Rationalization
Cost
Voltage   Route length   Local   Foreign   Total
(kV)         (km)              (M$ million) ----
Segambut - KL (North)          275/132         7.5          3.9      2.2       6.1
Segambut - Kg. Lanjut          275/132        11.0          6.1      3.3       9.4
Segambut - Damansara Ht. -
LLN headquarters             275/132         7.5          2.7      1.4       4.1
Serdang - Bandar Tun Razak    275/132         26.0          8.5      5.4      13.9
KL (East) - Pudu Ulu -
Bandar Tun Razak             275/132        16.0          7.8      4.7      12.5
Connought Bridge - Bkt. Raja        132        4.0          1.1      0.5       1.6
Total Base Cost                                      30.1      17.5     47.6
Physical contingencies (10%)                                3.0      1.7       4.7
Price contingencies                                         1.5      0.9       2.4
Total Project Cost                                    34.6     20.1      54.7
Equivalent US$ million                                13.8      8.1     21.9
Towers, fittings and accessories                             -      14.5      14.5
Conductors                                                  9.8       -        9.8
Earth wires with fiber optic
cables                                                    0.2      1.3       1.5
Tower foundations and erection                             11.7      1.3      13.0
Wayleaves and access                                        0.9       -        0.9
Survey and compensation                                     0.7       -        0.7
Stringing and commissioning                                 3.6      0.4       4.0
Administration and overhead                                 3.2       -        3.2
Total Base Cost                                       30.1     17.5      47.6
Physical contingencies (10%)                                3.0      1.7       4.7
Price contingencies                                         1.5      0.9       2.4
Total Project Cost                                    34.6     20.1      54.7
US$ million equivalent                                13.8      8.1      21.9



- 59 -                             A:RNEX 16
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Consultancy Services
(M$ million)
Man-
Item                                               months   Local  Foreign  Total
Thermal power plant rehabilitation including
conversion to gas firing (studies and
detailed engineering)                               160      0.4       4.0    4.4
Distribution system planning                           60      0.4       1.5    1.9
Management services                                    40      0.2       0.6    0.8
Materials management (studies and related
hardware)                                           80       1.2       3.8    5.0
Fixed assets accounting                                50      0.6       0.2    0.8
Human resources development                            40        -       1.0    1.0
Total Base Cost                                 430       2.8     11.1   13.9
Physical contingencies (10%)                                   0.3       1.2    1.5
Price contingencies                                            0.1       0.6    0.7
Total Project Cost                                        3.2     12.9   16.1
US$ million equivalent                                    1.3       5.2    6.5



- 60 -                            ANNEX 17
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbharsement (USs million) /a
Bank fiscal year             Semester             Semester             Cumulative
1987                            II                  1.0                   1.0
1988                             I                  6.0                   7.0
II                 10.0                  17.0
1989                             I                 13.0                  30.0
II                 13.0                  43.0
9990                             I                 11.0                  54.0
II                 11.0                  65.0
1991                             I                  8.0                  73.0
II                  7.0                  80.0
1992                             I                  6.0                  86.0
II                  5.0                  91.0
1993                             I                  5.0                  96.0
II                 4.0                  100.0
/a  Reference:  Updated Disbursement Profiles for Use in Appraisal Reports -
Memo from PPDDR dated October 3, 1985. Profile refers to Region's
Specific Investment Loans for the Power Sector.



- 61 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
MALAY'SIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementatioui Schedule
_________    Implementation
Key Activities                                          5tart                  Complete
A. Thermal Plant Rehabilitation
and Conversion
Appointment of Consultants                September 30, 1986        June 30, 1987
Engineering and Bid Documents            June 30, 1987              November 30, 1987
Evaluation of Bids by NEB                March 30, 1988             June 30, 1988
Review of Evaluation by Bank              June 30, 1988             July 15, 1988
Contract Finalization by NEB             July i5, 1988              October 15, 1988
Equipment Deliveries                     April 1, 1989              June 30, 1989
Installation and Supervision
by Consultants                         June 30, 1989              November 30, 1990
B. Maintenance Management Systems
Engineering and Bid Documents            September 30, 1986         January 30, 1986
Evaluation of Bids by NEB                March 30, 1987             June 30, 1987
Review of Evaluation by Bank             June 30, 1987              July 15, 1987
Contract Finalization by NEB             July 15, 1987              October 15, 1987
Installation of System and
Training                               January 30, 1988           March 30, 1988
C. System Control Improvements
Engineering and Bid Documents            September 30, 1986         March 30, 1987
Evaluation of Bids by NEB                July 30, 1987              November 30, 1987
Review of Evaluation by Bank             November 30, 1987          December 15, 1987
Contract Finalization by NEB             December 15, 1987          March 30, 1988
Equipment Deliveries                     June 30, 1988              December 30, 1988
Installation and Commissioning           September 30, 1988         December 30, 1989
Transmission System Rationalization
D. Substation Equipments
Engineering and Bid Documents          September 30, 19R6         Decembec 30, 1986
Evaluation of Bids by NEB              April 30, 198'             September 30, 1987
Review of Evaluation by Bank           September 30, 1987         October 15, 1987
Contract Finalization by NEB           October 15, 1987           January 15, 1988
Equipment Deliveries                   June 15, 1988              March 15, 1989
Installation and Commissioning         January 15, 1989           December 30, 1989
Civil Works
Appointment of Contractors by NEB    September 30, 1986           Harch 30, 1987
Construction                           June 30, 1987              June 30, 1988



- 62 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
Implementation
Key Activities                                        .Start                 Complete
E. Transmission Lines
Route Surveys                            September 30, 1986        June 30, 1987
Way Leaves                               September 30, 1986        June 30, 1987
Engineering and Bid Document             September 30, 1986        December 30, 1986
Evaluation of Bids by NEB                April 30, 1987            August 30, 1987
Review of Evaluation by Bank            August 30, 1987            September 15, 1987
Contract Finalization by NEB             September 15, 1987        December 15, 1987
Tower Spotting                           September 15, 1987        November 15, 1987
Tower Erection and Stringing            December 30, 1987          December 30, 1988
Commissioning                           June 30, 1988              June 30, 1989
Consu,tancy Services
F. Management Services
Appointment of Consultants              December 30, 1986          June 30, 1987
Discuss Report with Bank                June 30, 1988              July 30, 1988
Finalize Schedule for
Implementation                        July 30, 1988              September 30, 1988
G. Human Resources Development
Appointment of Expert                   December 30, 1986          March 30, 1987
Carry out Assignment                    March 30, 1987             March 30, 1988
Interim Discussion with Bank            September 30, 1987         October 30, 1987
H. Materials Handling
Appointment of Consultants              December 30, 1986          June 30, 1987
Carry out Assignment                    June 30, 1987              June 30, 1988
Final Discussions with Bank             June 30, 1988              September 30, 1988
Implementation by NEB                   September 30, 1988         September 30, 1989
I. Fixed Assets Inventory
Appointment of Consultants              March 30, 1987             August 30, 1987
Carry out Assignment                     September 1, 1987         December 15, 1987
Jo Distribution System Planning
Appointment of Cousultants               December 30, 1986         August 30, 1987
Carry out Assignment                    August 30, 1987           August 30, 1988
Final Discussions with Bank             August 30, 1988            September 30, 1988
Implementation by NEB                   September 30, 1988        June 30, 1990



-63-                    Annex 19
Page 1 of 20
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY & PLANT RENABILITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table of Contents
Pne-
Key Financial Indicators                                       2
Income Statement                                               3
Flow of Funds Statement                                        4
Balance Sheet                                                  5
Derivation of Average Tariff                                   6
Annual Investment Program                                      7
Capitalization Values                                          8
Fixed Asset Formation                                          9
Financing of Investment                                       10
Borrowings Summary                                            11
IBRD Loan Parameters                                          12
Committed and Further Loans                                   13
Sales and Generation                                          14
Direct Cash Flow                                              15
Taxes and Dividends                                           16
Receivables and Payables                                      17
Assumptions to Financial Projections                          18



Natile    Electricity BWd - knei  Finuaial Statemts - 1          l2-IM                                    20-Ot-6
NILAVSIA
EERSM  EFFICISCY & PLAIT K EM AILItATIA   PROECT
NATINAL ELECTRICITY BARDW
AWAL FINANCIAL STATEIEITS
i2Y Fiuocial Indicators
FiKcial Yar ELid Aq. 31              19       I93      1904      1        t6       1917     191      1919     I9       I9        I92      193      1994     1
--- 4ttw                                                                       t         i---        - ---kJtN  i
POER SlU   W )                       9368      047     992      1611    11367    12123    12973    1392    150l9 it            173"    19656    19995    2425
AVERAS REEIE Smi&l)                  22.0     22.2    22.2       22.3     20.3     19.3     19.3    19.3      19.3     19.3     19.3      19.3     19.3    19.6
No. RE           TNIT PRICES                           22.2    22.3    20.3        19.0    18.6    18.5    18.3    17.9         17.3    16.7    16.1    15.9
OPERTIMI REVERI  tUS NiIlIiul      1842.4  2013.1   2199.6  2403.5  2311.8  2345.2  2508.5  2703.5  2911.6  3130.2  336.8  3606.7  3965.4  4200.9
TMT. lIP. ESP. & TAIES in1 ni.)    1597.5  1634.9 155.5  1774.3  O1703.   1623.6   1692.0  1967.9  2124.0  2371.2  2659.6  2918.3   319.7  3497.4
IET  PERTIS INC1W A HI..)           244.9    378.2   624.1    629.2    608.9    99.2    972.1   1056.4  1052.4  I19.9  1050.3  1067.7  I019.7  1042.8
NET IUICOE AFTER TAX INS Nit.)      255.2    413.5   654.2    674.5    597.2   709.9    609.6   703.2   751.1    736.2   673.5   679.2    681.3   706.7
DIVIEIND  Sto 1illi)                 0.0     44.9     42.4     42.4      42.4     42.4    42.4      42.4    42.4    42.4       42.4    42.4       42.4    42.4           PrjKted
RATE BASE M   lilio)               2772.9   221.2   3175.7  3323.6  3962.3  5621.4  7090.4  6057.9   965.8  10915.6  1198.9  1233.1  13701.2  14866.7
PR1NARYRATIOS:I
RATE OF RET.- HIST. ASSETS        15.3?    26.9?    36.52    36.32    31.U6   23.52    16.2?    15.52    13.7?    11.71    10.6?    10.22        9.9?     9.9?             13.52
RAltE  F RET.- REWIL. ASSETS      12.4?    17.0?    24.11    24.0?    19.4?    15.9?    11.4?    II.U?    10.5?      9.02     7.98      7.31    6.89      6.72              9.71
SELF FIUNCIN  RATIO               49.0?    50.?    40.9?    47.1?    49.1?   59.4?    44.9?    40.82    46.82    56.3?    42.0?    41.6?    34.5         37.9?             44.21
DEBT swRim  CBVEASE                3.6      4.2      3.9       2.1      2.7      3.1      2.4      2.0      1.9      2.0      1.9      2.0       1.9      1.9               2.1
BTEwTim  Pt    EBS ITY            44.52    45.7?    44.9?    44.02    43.6      41.8?    42.0?    41.0?    38.4?    35.a     35.7?    36.5?    36.4?   39.0?               3.h
DIVIDED YIELD                      0.0?     1.32      1.0?    0.9?      o.       0.n      0.6?     0.5?     0.5?     0.4?     0.4?     0.4?     0.3?     0.3?               0.5?
OPERATIN  RATIO                   96.n7    8.2?    71.6?    73.8?    73.7%   59.5?    61.2?    60.9?    63.9?    64.9?    68.9?    70.4?    73.6?    75.2*                 66.5?
CURN  RATIO                      119.6?    93.1?   110.5?   115.6?   105.9?   98.1    86.9?    93.n   104.1?   100.31   1O0.9S2    ".8?   105.89   116.6?                  99.11
AccOuT  RECIVABL  - NOS.           2.4      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.6      1.6      1.6      1.5      2.5      1.5      1.4       2.4      1.4               2.1
AOl S PaYaE - NNI                  2.0      2.2      2.4       1.6      1.7      1.8      1.7      1.5      1.4      1.4      1.6      t.7       1.7      1.5               1.6
dp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,.fI
4                                                                                                                    o 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 65 -
National Eletricity oand - Anal Finanial Statment - 1912-19S5                                     20-ct-4
Incus Statut                                                          Page 3
INS Iillion                                                            s f20
FinAnial Tear Ende    . 31        1902    1903    1904    I195    198       1987    1988    199    I"O        199I    IM       193    1"4    195
tml -- rej~~~~~ections-                                             -_-
Total knertion  011k)             9741   1065    11533   12531   1332   1423!   15227   16412   17676   19003   20422   21089   234U9   2514
Lusset?)                            17       192     17n     17n      17n     17n    1in      1in      172      172    1in       in      i72      171
Nt kseratimn INkS)                9303    9985    9823   10741   11367   12128   12973   13912   15059   1410   17399n  1966    19995   21425
Mt laWted Powr (Nk)h                65      62       69      70        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
Pow  Sold  (tk)                   936 08   047    92    10811   11367   12128   1273   13982            0 50  16190   173     1066   19       21425
Avewae Roe n ikS)                 22.0    22.2    22.2    22.3    20.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    1,.3    19.3    19.          19.3    19.3    19.6
Inco" froe Electricity Sales    1839.7  2008.9  2195.6  239.4  2307.5  2340.7  2503.0  269.5  2906.4  3124.7  338.0  3600.6  39.0  422.1
met Revnue - Ehl. of Salu          2.7      4.2     4.0     4.1      4.3     4.5      4.7     5.0     5.2      5.5     S 0     64l      6.4     4.7
IIPERATIND REENE                 1842.4  2013.1  219.6  2403.5  2311.9  2345.2  2508.5  2703.5  2911.6  3130.2  3363.0  3606.7  385.4  4208.0
OPERATIE EFEIIEE
Fuel                             1154.0  1182.7  1066.9  1191.3   985.0   581.2   609.2   653.0   751.0   330.3   92.5  1072.5  1238.8  1395.5
Bulk Purchass                     52.8    16.3    10.2    13.7       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Otker Cash Operatiag Epoass      256.9   219.2   311.9   347.5   372.9   402.6   434.0   470.0   505.2   551.8   607.9   675.5   742.5   319.3
Depreition                       133.8   146.7   196.5   231.8   345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   650.2   723.0   791.0    64.4   951.1
Total Operatinr Expease         1597.5  1634.9  1575.5 1774.30  1703.0  1396.0  1536.4  1647.1  165.2  2032.3  2313.5  2539.0  2045.7  3166.0
WIEINS S9W. 6'                   244.9   376.2   674.1   629.2   408.8   949.2   972.1  1056.4  1052.4  107.9  1050.3   0U.7  1019.7  1042.8
zz~mamaruu                     u21~         32u28m3_az*2na2ums
OTHER ITNdS
Non-Operating Incme
Bout. Susidy - hur. Dieul         31.2    22.3    25.4    37.5       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Divided EarnIngs                   0.6      1.1     0.9     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
Sndry Reipts                      23.3    33.8    38.6    42.9    45.0    47.3    49.7    52.1    54.5    57.5    60.4    63.4    66.6    69.9
TOTAL.O  OPERATI1 IKOiE           55.1    57.2    64.9    80.6    45.2    47.5    49.9    52.3    55.0    57.7    60.6    63.6    66.9    70.1
IET INC. EF. INIEIE6T   TMU.     300.0   435.4   689.0   709.9   654.0   996.7  1022.0  1108.7  1507.4  1155.6  1110.9  .i31.3  1086.5  1112.9
susmuumwmgmmin
INTEREST
Tal Inteet Paysovts              103.3   123.4   161.6   198.5   270.7   301.2   332.7   366.8   383.0   365.8   37.4   434.3   489.0   550.0
ILes Interest Capitali2ed         15.3    40.6    50.7    76.7    98.9   116.6   130.0   137.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   17T.6   240.9   273.0
INTEREST 5388  TO 89151IIIlB     80.0    82.8   110.9   121.8   171.9   184.6   202.7   229.S   245.4   248.3   266.0   255.8   248.9   277.0
IKN   0EFilRE TRLASFR            212.0   352.6   57.1   588.0   482.1   912.1   019.2   879.3   862.0   *07.3   844.9   875.5   937.4   835.9
TIJISfR. FII CTRII. ACCT.         43.2    60.9    76.1   L8.5   115.0   125.4   134.9   144.6   154.7   16.9   174.8   183.0   19i.8   204.2
INC    EFORE TAN & DIVIEND       255.2   413.5   654.2   617.5   57.2   93.5   954.1  1023.9  1016.7  107t.2  1019.7  1058.6  1030.4  1040.0
- - -m                              m         s      r       a     a      a      n      m2-3 ae_
Incme Ta                                                                   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   338.9   346.2   379.4   349.1   331.4
IET IBMlE OME  TMN               255.2   413.5   654.2   676.5   597.2   709.9   608.6   703.2   751.1   736.2  643.5   679.2   681.3   708.7
Divdend                                   44.9    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4
(ls) Adj. for Sal of Assts         0.1    10.1)   10.11    0.2    (1.53   (1.4)   (1.31   11.2)   (1.1)   (1.0)   10.9)   (0.8)   (0.71   (0.6)
(leo) AlJ. to Prow. Yuar                           (2.5)
less) Idj. to Equity Acount                       (50.0)
NET INE                          255.3   368.5   664.2   634.3   553.2   66.1   564.9   659.6   707.5   692.8   630.2   63.    6382   665.7



- 66 -
rational Electricity Brd - Annual Fiancial Statmnts - 1982-1995                                 2O-Ort-u
Flns of Funds Statuat                                                   Pap 4
(111 Klillion)                                                        of 20
Finantial Year Ended Au. 31       1912    193    194    1985    1986    1987    19M       Iffl    1990    1991    192    193    199I    1995
INTERNAL CASH EIERATISH
Net Incov before Interet         300.0   435.4   689.0   709.3   654.0   996.7  1022.0  1108.7  1107.4  1155.6  1110.9  1131.3  1086.5  1112.9
Wprecition                       133.8   146.7   186.5   231.0   345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   r.0.2   723.0   791.0   864.4   951.1
Bross Consur Contributions       109.7   155.6   151.3   106.4   105.3   125.0   137.3   14.4   160.4   175.5   194.3   215.2   238.4   264.0
lnt Disposal of'fied Assets       1.6      1.7     1.7     1.4      1.5     1.6     1.7     1.8     1.9     2.0      2.1     2.2     2.3     2.4
RTIII  CASH FLUO                 545.1   739.4  1021.5  1049.4  1105.9  1536.4  1654.2  1782.2  1972.6  1983.3  2030.3  2139.7  2191.5  2330.4
(Les) Norking Capital Incr.     (91.5)  (146.4)   47.1   176.2   111.81  (190.5)  (40.4)  1".2   264.7    14.8    17.2   (29.5)   9.9   284.0
(less) tax"e  ayele               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   338.9   346.2   379.4   349.1   331.4
(lss) Dividend Payable            0.0    44.9    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4
lests) Not Investnt in Subs.      0.0    (3.3)    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
CXSI AVAIL. FOR DBT SERvICE      636.6   844.2   939.0   830.8  1075.4  1456.8  1306.6  1224.9  129.9  1587.2  1624.5  1747.4  1700.2  1672.6
DEBT  ERVICE
Interest Chwged to Operation     88.0    82.8   110.9   121.8   171.9   184.6   202.7   229.5   245.4   241.3   266.0   255.8   249.9   277.0
Principal Repaynnts              91.3   119.3   130.2   186.6   230.4   280.7   337.1   369.4   458.2   542.9   628.2   623.9   647.6   612.0
Total Dfet Service               17.3   202.1   241.1   308.4   402.3   465.3   539.8   598.8   703.'S  791.3   894.1   879.7   896.5   899.0
CASM AVAIL. F    OPRATIONS       457.3   642.1   697.9   522.4   673.1   991.4   766.8   626.1   596.3   795.9   730.4   867.7   803.6   783.5
CAPITAL INVESTEIIT
Proped Pro jt                                              0       0.0    13.4   119.0   166.4    79.9    21.2       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Oter Projects                   838.9  1222.8  1302.3  1215.9  1359.6  1588.0  1417.9  119.9  1030.6  1250.9  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
Cpitalized Interest              15.3    40.6    50.7    76.7    98.9   116.6   130.0   137.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   178.6   240.9   273.0
Annual Capital Invstmet         854.2  123.4  1353.0  1292.6  1458.4  1718.0  1666.9  1494.7  1248.9  1409.5  1703.7  2068.8  2282.6  2014.1
BICETOBE FINANCED               396.9   621.3   655.1   770.2   785.3   726.5    0O.1  969.6   652.7   613.6   973.3 1,201.1  1,479.0 1,234.5
SOURCE OF FILIIE
Bovt. Contributin - RE Projs.    140.0    99.8    92.0    72.1    77.9    86.9    11.6    89.5      7.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Consuer Dits                     27.0    32.9    28.8    29.5    28.4    28.8    30.8    33.2    35.7    38.4    41.3    44.3    47.4    51.7
BiD Las for Ongoing Projects     26.8    i7.9    16.1    68.2    43.5    87.6    44.6    34.3       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
8Loun -        IBProjects  11I                                     0.0     0.0   125.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
IBRD Lon - Proposed Project                                        0.0     6.6    70.6   116.6    51.6      4.6     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Coeitt  d  Existing Loans        303.5   487.5   605.7   562.0   W5il  470.8   252.2    58.6    17.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Fort    sofe?du1r                                                160;0    33.5   30? 3   5529   4831   5723   SJ -  1163.0  144.0  12014
6nv rnt oftlyi *i                                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
TOTAL flU                       S497.3   657.1   742.6   731.8   763.5  714.2   919.1   885.1   664.6   615.3  98.5  1207.3  1495.5  1253.1
Upqidity for Invnftd_t           53.1    34.5      0.0    4.4    20.9      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Uquidity Borrouins                0.0     0.0   (57.0)    0.0      0.0    (0.0)    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    (0.0)
CSH I. (0ICI.I FOR YEAR          47.3      1.3   144.5   (86.)  (42.7   (12.4)   19.0    16.5    11.9       1.7    15.2      6.1    16.5    18.5
OPENIN BALAIIIE                  21.0    68.3    69.6   214.1   127.3    84.6    72.2    91.2   107.7   119.6   121.3   136.5   142.6   159.1
ILOS1119 8BALAME                 68.3    69.6   214.1   127.3    04.6    72.2    91.2   107.7   119.6   121.3   136.5   142.6   159.1   177.6
assa mes nag  -- -    -_- - - - - - - - -- - - -X



- 67 -
National Electricity Burd - Annual Finarcial Stateents - 1982-199                               20-kt-86
alance Set                                                         Page 5
NS PIllionl)                                                          of 20
k At August 31                   1912    1993    1904    I95    196    I          198    1909    I"O    19I    1992    1993    1994    197
ASSETS
FlIED ASSETS
Revalued Broas Fixed Assts      5218.6  559.7  6423.1  6941.1  5765.9  Il169.4 12961.6 14904.9 17192.6  19349.5 21275.1  23166.9 Z03.5 28046.3
(LessAkcusulated Opreciation    1758.6  189.2  2090.2  2360.7  2879.8  3375.4  3899.4  445.6  5103.2  5929.0  656.5  7884.5  9021.8 10295.7
(less) Total Contribitions      713.5   905.7  1077.4  1198.9  1353.0  1484.1  1591.2  1701.6  1802.6  1876.4  1965.0  2069.7  2191.9  2333.0
Revalued Iet Fixed Assets       2746.5  3095.9  3255.5  3391.6  4533.1  6709.8  7471.1  86U.7  10267.0 11544U.  12453.6 13212.7 14189.7  15427.6
Vork in Progress                1905.6  2472.1  3325.6  4224.3  4413.8  3617.0  4001.7  3779.3  2787.5  2W.9  3121.8  4051.3  4920.8  5203.4
TOTAL fllED ASSES              4652.1  5567.9  6591.1  7615.9  9946.9  !0326.8 11472.8  12424.0  13074.5 18201.1  15575.4  17264.0 19110.6 20631.0
CURMElt AETS
Cash                             68.3    69.4   214.1   127.3    84.6    72.2    91.2   107.7   119.6   121.3   136.5   142.6   159.1   177.i
Inveatories                     208.8   235.6   309.3   357.9   438.3   520.6   550.9   629.2   687.7   774.0   851.0   926.7  1016.1  1121.9
Fuel Inventories                 72.0    59.6    72.0    89.8    65.7    38.7    40.6    43.5    50.1    55.4    65.5    71.5    92.6    93.0
kccnts Receivable                200.1   283.1   308.6   337.4   318.0   316.9   332.9   352.2   372.2   392.5   413.7   434.8   456.6   486.9
otbQr Rceivables                 310.4   290.7   345.7   415.1   456.6   502.3   552.5   607.7   668.5   735.4   808.S9  98.8   978.   1076.7
TOTAL CURREt ASSETS             867.6   937.6  1249.7  1327.5  1363.2  1450.7  1568.0  1740.3  1899.1  2078.6  2275.6  2465.4  2693.2  2956.1
_                             :S :U88:3E_ :2 2:2s=zzw2uuU                                                                          1     _  #-
Investents in Subsidiaies         6.9     3.6      3.6     3.6     3.6     3.6      3.6     3.6     3.6     3.6      3.6     3.6     3.6     3.6
Liquidity lnvestsents             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
rr lr 2r     S=S=#:#:=:t8 at      s         r        :        sSsarl
TOTAL ASSETS                    5526.6  6509.1  7834.4  8947.0  10313.7  11781.1  1304.4  14167.9  14976.3 16283.2 17854.6  19733.0 21807.4 23590.7
LIA8ILITIES MD NET NORTH
E--xzss=  VE  $Ms #rxt:
EGUITY
Oevt. of Malaysia Investment    898.4   998.4   848.4   848.4   848.4   848.4   849.4   948.4   940.4   848.4   848.4   948.4   948.4   848.4
Retained Eanings                1076.4  1444.9  2109.1  2743.4  3296.6  3962.7  4527.6  5187.2  5894.7  6597.5  7217.8  7853.7  8491.9  9157.6
Revaluation Reserve             1072.3  1066.7  1002.4  1147.6  1436.5  1600.9  1667.2  1743.3  1833.8  2211.6  2621.8  3073.7  3550.6  4066.9
TOTAL  t NETlT                  3047.1  3410.0  4039.9  4739.4  5591.5  6412.0  7043.2  7779.9  9576.9  9647.5  10693.9  l1M.9  12890.9 14072.9
191 LOan - Proposed Project                                        0.0     6.6    77.2   193.8   235.0   219.8   197.9   177.1   156.2   135.4
1815 Loans - Ongoing Projects    37.7    75.6    91.7   150.9   191.4   245.0   259.8   262.3   231.5   200.7   169.9   139.1   109.3    77.5
8 Loan - POWr I t II                                               0.0     0.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   112.5   100.0    87.5
Preios Vorld Bank Lons          335.4   303.0   269.8   236.9   196.1   163.7   129.3   106.5    85.1    65.4    44.1    23.7        8.6     0.8
Comeitted and Existing Loans    1339.5  1740.1  2238.8  2666.2  2942.5  31N9.0  3169.3  2923.6  2570.4  2148.5  1704.4  1350.1  1042.2   702.0
Further Serroting                                                 160.8   194.2   501.5  1042.9  1500.6  2023.3  2859.3  3837.2  5024.7  5946.2
lless) Current Mlaturitin      (129.1)  (144.0)  (201.61  (230.4)  (280.71  (337.11  (349.4)  1458.2)  (542.9)  (620.2) (623.9)  1647.6) (612.01  (642.6)
TOTAL B6   IUSS                 1593.5  1974.7  2398.7  2823.5  3200.1  3UI.4  3891.7  4195.9  4204.7  4153.4  4476.7  4992.1  5829.0  6386.8
CLRREWT LIADILITIES
Current Maturities of L. T. D.   129.1   144.0   201.6   230.4   280.7   337.1   369.4   459.2   542.9   628.2   623.9   647.6   612.0   642.6
Accunts Payable                 301.3   364.5   442.5   317.0   335.6   355.4   354.6   346.0   328.9   371.1   436.5   500.8   549.2   538.4
Provision for Incoe ta           23 6    23.6    23.6      0.0     0.0   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   331.9   346.2   379.4   349.1   331.4
Provision for Dividend           21.9    66.9   106.8   127.3    84.8    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4   4*.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4
Other Current Liabilities       249.6   356.6   356.6   473.6   587.7   673.1   694.7   689.8   643.0   698.    783.4   99.1   99ms   981.4
TOTAL CUIRRT LIAILIIES         725.5   955.5  1131.1  1148.3  1288.8  1635.6  1806.6  1957.1  1822.9  2072.1  2232.5  2469.3  2545.2  2536.2
X*S23322*1u2223822*         22Z222222222322222212232UZ12333222*8232t
OtMER LIAbILITIES
Comer  Deposits                  123.7   156.6   185.4   214.9   213.3   272.0   302.8   336.0   371.7   410.2   451.4   495.7   543.2  594.0
LiUqdity Sotwrriup               46.8    12.3    69.3    20.9      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
TUTAL OtIS LIADILITIES           170.5   168.9   254.7   235.8   243.3   272.0   302.8   336.0   371.7   41h.2   451.4   495.7   543.2   594.9
TOTAL LIAMS. AND NET  UlIN     5526.6  6509.1  7824.4  8947.0  10313.7 11781.1 13044.4 14167.9 14976.3 16283.2 17954.6  19733.0 21807.4 23590.7
_    _      "      g~ums   matsl hmut _             2832m.sutUEtttSrmzlEtnEmr2mEElU _EU_ r                     _UsZZUUU



- 68 -
National Electricity Surd - Annual Financial Stateents - 1992-19W5                                 20-Oct-Sb
Derivation of Averae Tar.ff                                                  Page 6
(RI Nilliost                                                            of 20
Financial Year Ended Aug. 31       1982    1983    1984    198       1986    1987    199B    1989    199        1991    19       ISS3    1994    IS5
us%$
RATE OF RETUIM
2. =
EIPEN3ES
Fuel                             1154.0  1182.7  1066.9  1181.3   985.0   581.2   609.2   653.0   751.0   930.3   982.5  1072.5  1238.8  13SS.5
Bulk Perchases                     52.8    16.3    10.2    13.7       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Other Cash Operat*ng Expens       256.S   289.2   311.9   347.5   372.9   402.6   434.0   470.8   505.2   551.8   607.9   675.5   742.5   819.3
DepreKiation                      133.8   146.7   196.5   231.8   345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   650.2   723.0   791.0   84.4   951.I
TOTAL OPERATINB EXPENSES         1597.5  1634.t  1575.5  1774.3  1703.0  1396.0  1536.4  1647.1  1859.2  2032.3  2313.5  2539.0  2845.7  3166.0
Incee TaM                         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   339.9   346.2   379.4   349.1   331.4
REENE  IEEDED - OPERATIONS       1597.5  1634.9  1575.5  1774.3  1703.0  1623.6  1982.0  1967.9  2124.8  2371.2  2659.6  2910.3  3194.7  3497.4
AV8. FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE     2772.9  2921.2  3175.7  3323.6  3962.3  5621.4  7090.4  8057.9  9465.8  10915.6 11998.9  12833.1  13701.2 14808.7
Kininus Rate of Return              8.89   12.92   19.72   19.9?    8.02    8.02    9.02    8.02    8.02    9.02    8.02    8.02    9 02    9.02
NININUN SURPLUS REVENUE           244.9   379.2   624.1   629.2   317.0   449.7   567.2   644.6   757.3   873.2   959.9  1026.7  1096.1  1194.7
TOTAL REVEUE REQUIRED - ROR      1842.4  2013.1  2199.6  2403.5  2020.0  2073.3  2449.3  2612.4  2892.1  3244.4  3619.5  3945.0  4290.8  4692.1
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTHEIT
Tr: ::      -:-::::::_:
CASH OPERATING EXPENSES          1463.7  1468.2  1399.0  1542.5  1357.9   993.8  1043.3  1123.9  1256.2  1392.0  1590.5  1748.0  1981.3  2214.9
OTHER OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Working Capital Incr. (Decr.)     (91.51  (146.4)   47.1   176.2   (11.81  (I19.51   (40.4)   194.2   264.7    14.8    17.2   (29.5)   99.9   284.:
Taes Payable                        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   338.9   346.2   379.4   349.1   331.4
Dividend Payale                     0.0    44.9    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4
Total Debt Service                179.3   202.1   241.1   309.4   402.3   465.3   539.8   598.8   103.6   791.3   894.1   879.7  896.5   889.0
Invetnnts in Industry              0.0    (3.3)    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
OTER OPERATING CASH REONTS.        97.8    97.3   330.6   527.0   432.9   544.9   887.4  1156.1  1276.4  1187.4  129.9  1272.0  1397.9  1546.9
TOTAL OMERATING CASH NEDS        1551.5  1585.5  171S.6  2069.5  1790.8  1528.7  1930.7  2280.0  2532.6  2569.4  2890.4  3020.0  3369.2  3761.7
AVERAE ANNUA. CAP. EXPENI.        931.0  1156.9  1303.0  1369.0  1489.7  1614.4  1626.5  1470.2  1384.4  1454.0  1727.3  2018.4  2123.2  2160.1
(less) 1rs. Consuser Contribs.    (109.7)  (155.6)  1151.3)  (i06.4)  (105.31  1125.9) (137.31  1148.4)  (160.41  (175.5)  (194.31  (215.2)  (238.41  (264.0)
NET AV6. ANU   CAP. EXPEND.       821.3  1001.3  1151.7  1261.6  1384.3  1489.6  1489.2  1321.8  1224.0  1279.6  1533.0  I903.1  1884.8  1896.1
Ninimu Contrib. to Investeent      45.42   51.71   49.92   35.22   30.02   30.02   30.02   30.02   30.02   30.02   30.02   30.0   30.02   30.02
IINIMIN SURPLUS CASH              373.0   517.7   573.7   444.1   415.3   446.6   446.8   396.5   367.2   393.6   459.9   540.9   565.4   568.8
TTLEMERQ RE   CTI   :- 52103.2  293  2513.6  2261t  1=                              2        27C    29 :29                                      4330.:
TOTAL REVEUE REQUIRED - CTI      1924.5  2103.2  2293.3  2513.6  2206.1  1975.3  2377.4  2676.5  2899.9  2953.0  3350.3  3560.9  3934.6  4330.5
TOTAL REVENUJE RE0UIREIIEllt     1924.5  2103.2  2293.3  2513.6  2206.1  1975.3  2377.4  2676.5  2999.9  2953.0  3350.3  3560.9  3934.6  4330.5
(lesslConser Deposits             27.0    32.9    28.9    29.5    29.4    29.8    30.9    33.2    35.7    38.4    41.3    44.3    47.4    51.7
(less)Non-Operating Incoe         55.1    57.2    64.9    80.6    45.2    47.5    49.9    52.3    55.0    57.7    60.6    63.6    66.8    70.1
flesslNet Revs. Evcl. of Sales     2.7      4.2      4.0     4.1      4.3     4.5      4.7     5.0      5.2     5.5      5.8     6.1      6.4     6.7
TARIFF REVE   REWUIRED           1839.7  2008.9  2195.6  23W.4  2128.2  1894.5  22.0  2596.0  2803.9  2851.4  3242.7  3447.0  3814.0  4202.1
PowER gaLES 16me                   8368    9047    9892   10811   11367   12128   12973   13982   15059   16190   17399   18656   1999S   21425
Necessary Avtrage Rvenuelkb        22.0    22.2    22.2    22.3    18.7    15.6    17.7    18.5    18.6    17.6    19.6    18.5    19.1    19.6
AVERAGE TARIFF (SelnkUb)           22.0    22.2    22.2    22.3    20.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    19.3    I9,3    19.6
Tariff Increatse (2)                        0.91   -0.02    0.52   -9.0S   -4.9t    0.02    0.0o    o.o0    0.02    0.0Q    0.02    0.02    1.1t
Self Finaning  atio                49.02   50.72   40.92   47.12   49.11   58.41   44.92   40.82   46.,8    56.3t   42.02   41.62   34.52   37.92
Cash Available fotr i'nvestent
(lAfter  t  gUk. Cap. lncr .)   457.3   642.1   697.9   522.4   673.1   991.4   766.0   62.1   596.3   795.9   730.4   967.7   803.6   783.5
S::':- :w=_  Zas#



- 69 -
National Electricity Board - Annual Finacial Statmnto - 1982-lSSS                                  20-Oct-96
Anoual ltvnttnt Progra                                                     Page 7
(NS Nilcli)                                                             o4 20
Total  Esbnd. lot. hEp.
Financial fear Ended Rag. 31    Project Before  1915-       1915    1986    199       IM      1989    1990    1         IM      1993    1194    1995
Cost  19    Ifl lkt.l --                                -        -o;retions---
_:: ss
Foreigt Escalation Rate                                    0.000   0.000   0.030   0.010   0.010   0.010   0.035   0.035   0.035   0.035   0.035
Foreign Escalation factor                                  0.000   0.000   0.015   0.035   0.046   0,056   0 090   0.119   0.157    0.197   0.239
Local Escltiot  Rate                                       0.000   0.000   0.030   0.010   0.010   0.010   0.035   0.035   0.035   0.035   0.035
Local Escalation Factor                                    0.000   0.000   0.015   0.035   0.046   0.056   O.0    0.118   0.157   0.197   0.239
POMPOSED PRWOJ1
roreign Cost Cuponent,
There. Plant Rehab. S Conv.     59.7             59.7                      1.7    16.5    26.1    11.3       3.4
System Control leprovesents     50.2             50.2                      1.3    13.9    22.6    10.0       2.5
Transeissimn Reinforce4mts     106.6            106.6                      2.7    29.3    48.0    21.3       5.3
Other Project Expenditures      13.5             13.5                      0.3      3.7     6.1      2.7     0.7
Foreign Base Cost              230.0            230.0                      6.1    63.3   103.5    45.3    11.9        0.0
Physical Contingeny             23.0             23.0                      0.6      6.3    10.3      4.5      1.2     0.0
Price Contingency               11.6             11.6                      0.1      2.4     5.2      2.9      1.0     0.0
Total Foreign Cost                264.6            264.6                      6.9    72.0   119.0    52.7    14.1        0.0
Local Cost Component:
There. Plant Rehab. I Conv.     14.3             14.3                      0.8      5.0     5.0      2.7      0.9
Systen Control Improvements      9.0              9.0                      0.5      3.1     3.1      1.8     0.5
Transmission Ruinforceants      90.3             90.3                      4.5    31.6    31.6    18.1       4.5
Other Project Expenditures       4.3              4.3                      0.2      1.6      1.6     0.9      0.2
Local Base Cost                117.9            117.9                      6.0    41.3    41.3    23.4        6.0     0.0
Physical Contingency            11.9             11.8                      0.6      4.1     4.1      2.3      0.6     0.0
Price Contingency                5.7              5.7                      0.1      1.6     2.1      1.4      0.5     0.0
Total Local Cost                  135.4            135.4                      6.6    47.0    47.5    27.2       7.1      0.0
TOTAL PROPOSED PROJECT COST       400.0            400.0                     13.4   119.0   166.4    79.9    21.2        0.0
#=:~z                     sr-=                                                S                                             -::=z2 _ =
OTHER PROJECTS
Hydroelectric Generation
Sungai Piah                    324.4     3.6   320.8      5.0      6.3    90.9   112.3    80.1    36.3
UluT Trenganu                    0.0              0.0
Dakun Hydroelectric Project      0.0              0.0
Other Comitted Projects        911.5   484.9   426.6   102.4    95.3   154.9    74.1
Other Projects                   0.0              0.0
Total Hydro Bas Cost             1235.9            747.4   107.4   101.6   235.6   186.4    R0.1    36.3        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Thermal Beneration
Port tlang 1                   906.7   454.1   452.6   240.0   142.9    60.0        9.7
Port Klang 2                  1204.5   103.4  1101,1   101.6   150.4   310.7   297.2   187.9   53.3
Other Comiatted Projetts      1152.2   493.0   667.2   331.3   267.9    64.2        3.8
Other Projects                2661.4           2661.4                              12.6    65.0   193.0   319.0   410.0   515.4   598.0   559.4
Theral Projects Bas Cost         5924.8           4982.3   672.9   561.2   434.9   323.3   252.9   236.3   318.0   410.0   515.4   59S.0   559.4
Small Diesel Generation           193.5   119.5    64.0      6.1      9.5     6.1      6.5     6.9      7.3     7.7      5.0     4.0      1.^      2.0
Hajor Transmission Projects
Southera Grid Reinforcement    209.9            209.9     9.1    19.1    50.0    88.3    45.4
High Voltage DC - Baksn          0.0              0.0
Total HaJor Transission           209.9            209.9     8.1    19.1    50.0    88.3    45.4        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Transmission               3073.3   435.6  2639.7   196.7   262.2   235.0   170.7   166.4   125.9   222.2   339.1   420.1   379.6   122.8
Urbaa Distribution               3387.6   279.9  3107.0   196.9   210.7   225.4   241.2   258.1   276.2   295.5   316.2   339.3   362.0   397.3
Rural Distribution               1677.2   166.3  1510.9    91.3   155.7   155.7   155.7   155.7   132.9   132.8   132.9   132.0   132.8   132.8
Projet Related Administration     906.2    75.2   731.0    15.3    40.6    79.6    73.1    70.1    72.5    76.9    76.9    75.0    75.0    76.0
otbhr Projects Base Cot         16500.4          13893.0  1294.7  1359.6  1422.3  1245.2  1035.5   8E7.3  1053.1  1279.0  1483.6  1550.4  1290.3
Physical Contingeacy             1123.9           1123.9     0.0      0.0   142.2   124.5   103.5   08.7   1O5.3   127.9   149.6   155.0   128.0
Price Contingen                  1364.9           1364.9     0.0      0.0    23.5    48.1    51.9    54.6    92.4   165.4   256.1   336.3   336.7
TOTAL COST - OTHER PROECT       1999.2           16381.9  1294.7   15.6  1590.0  1417.9  1190.9  1030.6  1250.9  1572.3   1990.2  2041.7  1745.1
A       INESITEIT PROSRAN       19309.1          16781.7  1294.7  135S.6  1601.4  1536.9  1357.3  1110.5  1272.0  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
rnSua   *=gas&          a u       m    u     u    u      m      m     8e        m#



- 70 -
National Electricity Board - Annual Financial Statesets - 1982-1993                              20-Oct-96
Capitalization Values                                                   Page 8
(IN million)                                                           of 20
Total  Expend. Tot. Esp.
Financial Year Ended Aug. 31   Project Before  1985-       1985    1986    1987    1988    199        WO      1991    1992    1993    m        195
Cost    1985      1c    (At.) I-----------------
Foreign Escalation Factor                                 0.000   0.000   0.015   0.035   0.046   0.056   0.080   0.118   0.157   0.197   0.239
Local Escalation Factor                                   0.000   0.000   0.015   0.035   0.046   0.056   0.080   0.118   0.157   0.197   0.23'
PROPOSED PREJECT
There. Plant Rebab. & Conv.    85.l             85.1                      2.8    24.5    36.6    16.3       5.0     0.0
Systee ControT Improvesents    68.1             68.1                      2.0    19.2    29.6    13.7       3.6     0.0
Transeission Reinforceents    226.3            226.3                      8.0    69.3    91.5    45.0    11.6       0.0
Other Project Expenditures     20.5             20.5                      0.6     6.0      8.8     4.2      1.0     0.0
TOTAL PROPOSED PROJECT COST      400.0            400.0                     13.4   11I.0   166.4    79.9    21.2       0.0
ts*2211z2ZM                   MM22ga DS I   SUff St   2S  I     SSSXAU                                                           S    D     D S
OTHER PROJECTS
Hydroelectric Generation
Sungai Piah                   367.3      3.6   363.7     5.0      6.3    90.2   127.9    92.1    42.2       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Ulu Trengganu                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Da-un Hydroelectric Project     0.0              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Comitted Projects        939.8   484.9   454.9   102.4    95.3   172.8    84.4       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Projects                  0.0              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Hydro  as Cost            1307.1            818.6   107.4   101.6   263.0   212.2    9.1    42.2                         0.0     0.0      0.0
Thermal Generation
Port Klang 1                  915.0   454.1   460.9   240.0   142.9    67.0    11.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Port Klang 2                  1318.7   103.4  1215.3   101.6   150.4   346.9   338.4   216.1    61.9        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Co2itted ProjeKtt       1160.2   485.0   675.2   331.3   267.9    71.7      4.3      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Projects                3389.1          3389.1     0.0      0.0     0.0    14.3    74.8   212.6   377.7   504.0   655.8   797.5   762.5
Thermal Projects 6ase Cost      6783.1           5740.6   672.9   561.2   485.6   368.1   290.8   274.5   377.7   504.0   655.8   787.5   762.5
Sall Diesel Generation           192.7   119.5    73.2      6.1      9.5     6.8     7.4      7.8     8.5     9.1      6.1     5.1     4.0      2.7
Kajor Transmisuion Projects
Southern Grid Reinfortest     234.8            234.8     9.1    18.1    55.9   100.5    52.2       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Nigh Voltage DC - akun          0.0              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total lajor Transmission         234.8            234,8     8.1    18.1    55.8   100.5    52.2       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Other Transaission              3570.2   435.6  3134.6   196.7   262.2   262.4   194.4   191.4   146.2   263.9   415.6   534.5   499.9   167.4
Urban Distribution              4006.1   279.8  3726.3   196.9   210.7   251.7   274.7   296.8   320.8   351.0   368.7   430.5   476.7   527.9
Rural Distribution              1943.6   166.3  1777.3    91.3   155.7   173.8   177.3   179.1   154.3   157.7   163.3   169.0   174.9   181.0
Project Related Adeinistration   951.7    75.2   876.5    15.3    40.6    88.9    83.2    80.6    84.2    91.3    94.5    95.4    98.8   103.6
TOTAL COST - OTHER PROJECTS    18989.2          16381.8  1294.7  1359.6  1589.0  1417.9  1190.9  1030.6  1250.8  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
~~~~~~=Zxx    SMS82a2 
ANWUAL INVESlEIIT PROGRM A     19389.1          16781.7  1294.7  1359.6  1601.4  1536.9  1357.3  1110.5  1272.0  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
S3: 222Z2ZZ2                  1  1s #3t                8    l     1    g t        5#         A      =S        s    _    _     .l       S       S



- 71 -
National Electricity owd - Annul Financial Statents - 1982-i95                                    20-Oct-86
Fixed Aset Foration                                                     Page 9
(Ns Million)                                                           of 20
Finaacial Year Ended Aug. 31      1912    1963    199      1985    1986    198      1999    199    I0    1991    1992    1993    194    1995
-I~~~~~~~~ cta-  ------------------ --- ---- -Projetions-- --    
HISTO-1RCAL VALUE
GRO   llED ASSEtS
Open.ng 18aance                 3029.3  3303.6  3995.1  4468.9  4879.4  6141.3  9650.1  926.3  11637.4  13872.1  15406.2 16639.0  17712.3  19179.4
Add itins:
Cap talizations                290.9   696.9   49.5   393.9  1260.9  2514.9  1292.2  1717.1  2240.7  1540.1  1238.0  1139.3  1413.1  1755.5
(ins,) Retireats               (5.6)   (5.4)   (5.7)   (4.4)   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.0i   16.0)   (6.01   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.01    16.0)
fearl1 Increase                  275.3   691.5   493.8   389.5  1262.9  2509.9  1276.2  1711.1  2234.7  1534.1  1232.8  1133.3  1407.1  1729.5
miiWical Gross Fixed Assets     3303.6  3995.1  4499.9  4879.4  6141.3  9650.1   W26.3  11637.4 13872.1  15406.2  16639.0  17772.3 19179.4 20908.9
ACCIIILATED DEMECIATIOII
opening Balance                  909.9  1039.5  1192.9  1364.7  1589.6  1820.8  2113.6  2482.1  2083.4  3358.7  3969.1  4425.9  5025.1  5669.8
AnnUaI Depreciation              133.8   147.0   195.7   226.1   234.2   295.9   371.5   404.3   478.3   512.4   560.9   602.2   646.7   701.5
(less) DrWc. tm btd. Assts        (4.1)   (3.6)   (3.9)   (3.2)   (3.0)    3.)    (3.01   (3.01   (3.01   (.)   (3.0)    3.0)   (3.01    (3.0)
Closing Balance - Historical     1039.5  1192.9  1364.7  1589.6  1920.8  2113.6  2482.1  2993.4  3359.7  369.1  4425.9  5025.1  5668.6  6367.3
CONGUKIER CMITRIWT13115
Opening Balance                  393.4   599.9   793.4   950.6  1040.6  1130.1  1241.2  1355.5  1471.4  1576.5  1610.1  1659.5  1725.4  1900.5
Additions - Urban Distribution    109.7   155.6   151.3   106.4   105.3   125.9   137.3   140.4   160.4   175.5   194.3   215.2   238.4   264.0
Additions - Rural Electrif.      140.0    91.9    92.0    72.1    77.9    96.9    9.96    99.5    77.1
(less) Trans. to lcose Stunt.    (43.2)  (60.9)  (76.11  (99.5)  (93.71  (101.7)  (111.7)  (122.0)  (132.4) (141.9)  (144.9)  (149.4)  (1.3)  (162.8)
Net Changes                      206.5   193.5   167.2    90.0    89.5   111.1   114.3   116.0   105.1    33.6    49.4    65.9    93.1   101.2
Closing Balance                  599.9   783.4   950.6  1040.6  1130.1  1241.2  1355.5  1471.4  1576.5  1610.1  1659.5  1725.4  1809.5  1909.7
2232sz32z23233zz              2222:33232222282      82  222322 3-222222232            32223=  22222222222822=2t 322as2
NET FIXED AIS   - HISTORICAL    1674.2  2028.9  2173.6  2248.2  3190.4  5295.3  6098.7  7282.5  6936.9  9920.0 10553.6 11021.8 1l1  .2  12631.9
REVALUATION
Realuation Factor                                                  1.075   1.030   1.010   1.010   1.010   1.035   1.035   1.035   1.035   1.035
Gross Fixed Assets:
Opening Balante                                                7461.7  9028.9  11685.0 13091.2  14952.9  17794.6 20026.7 22019.8  23977.7 26292.6
Additions                                                      1310.3  2546.4  1292.6  1719.7  2245.9  1560.9  1254.4  1153.1  1431.7  1759.9
(los) Retiremnts               (5.6)   (5.4)   (5.7)   14.4)   (6.01   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.01   (6.01   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.0)   (6.01   (6.0)
Revilued Gross Fixed Assets     5218.6  589S.7  6423.1  6941.1  9765.9  11569.4  12961.6 14904.9  17192.8 19349.5 21275.1 23166.9 25403.5 29046.3
Accuwulated Deprition:
Opening Balance                                                2537.8  2966.2  3409.2  3939.4  4503.2  5281.0  6136.5  7096.5  9160.5  S337.6
Annual Revalud Deprec.         133.8   146.7   186.5   231.8   345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   650.2   723.0   791.0   964.4   951.1
(les) lop. of Rttd. ssts       (4.1)   (3.6)   (3.9)   (3.2)   (3.0)   (3.0)   (3.01   (3.0)   (3)   (O 3.0)   (3.0)   (3-0)   (3.0)   (3.0)
Revl. Arcuulated Depr.          1758.6  1899.2  2090.2  2360.7  2079.8  3375.4  3899.4  459.6  5103.2  5929.0  6856.5  7984.5  9021.8 10785.7
232222222222232222    222  2222222222222222222 222222322##t2S_                    32_2  Z__CC 2S2222222222222222222222222C=CC2222C3C2a222
Conumers Contributions:
opening Balante                                                1278.0  13  6   1499.0  1607.1  1719.6  1865.7  1942.0  2033.8  2142.2  2268.6
Additions                                                       190.1   216.0   227.1   239.1   239.7   178.6   197.7   219.0   242.5   268.6
Transfers                      (43.2)  (60.9)  (76.11  (98.5)  (115.01  1123.4)  (134.9)  (144.6)  0154.7)  1167.9)  (174.9)  (113.0)  (192.8)  1204.2)
Reyal. Consuemr Contributions    713.5   905.7  1077.4  1188.8  1353.0  1484.1  15$1.2  1701.6  1802.6  1876.4  1965.0  2069.7  2191.9  2333.0
lET FIXED ASSETS - REVALUED     2746.5  30SS.9  3255.5  3391.6  4533.1  6709.8  7471.1  9644.7 10287.0  11544.1 12453.6  13212.7  14189.7  I5427.6
C2z2z3C3Z22222S                2333           222m, :n3szu2_=====2=C##       2s8#22CC#Czz2==__3222 222222C-C                       228523 #22
GROSS FIE  ASSETS               5218.6  58S9.7  6423.1  6941.1  9765.9  11569.4  12961.6  14804.9  17192.  19349.5  21275.1 23166.9 2543.5  2046.3
ACCWWLATEO DEPRECIATION         1758.6  1998.2  2090.2  2360.7  2879.8  3315.4  3899.4  4458.6  5103.2  5929.0  6856.5  7984.5  9021.8  10285.7
CONSE COluTR1UtIS                713.5   905.7  1077.4  119888  1353.0  1494.1  1591.2  1701.6  1902.6  1876.4  1965.0  2069.7  2191.9  2333.0
NlET FIED ASSETS IN T10TIN      2746.5  3095.8  3255.5  3391.6  4533.1  6709.8  7471.1  8644.7 10297.0  11544.1 12453.6  13212.7  14189.7  15427.6
REVUATION RESERVE               1072.3  1066.7  1082.4  1147.6  1436.5  1600.9  1a67.2  1743.3  1833.8  2211.6  2627.8  3073.7  3550.6  4066.9
ANIA  DEPRECIATION               133.8   146.7   186.5   231.9   345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   650.2   723.0   791.0   964.4   951.1
AUK  TRANES                      (43.2)  (60.9)  (76.1)  (88.5)  (115.0)  (125.4)  (134.9)  (144.6)  (154.71 (167.9)  (174.8)  (183.0)  (192.08  (204.2)
11R INl PROGRESS
2222223222222222=
Opening Balance                 1332.3  1905.6  2472.1  3325.6  4224.3  4413.8  3617.0  4001.7  3779.3  2797.5  2656.9  3121.8  4051.3  4920.9
dditions:
Construction                  938.9  1222.8  1302.3  1215.9  1359.6  1601.4  1536.9  1357.3  1110.5  1272.0  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
Interest Capitalized           15.3     0.6    50.7    76.7    99.9   116.6   130.0   157.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   178.6   240.9   273.0
(lns) Capitalizations         280.9   696.9   49.5   393.9  1268.9  2514.8  1292.2  1717.1  2240.7  1540.1  1238.9  1139.3  1413.1  1735.5
Yearly Intrease                  573.3   566.5   853.5   898.7   189.5  (796.8)  384.7  (222.4)  (991.8)  (130.6)  464.9   929.5   969.5   282.6
mm  IN PROMRESS                 1905.6  2472.1  3325.6  4224.3  4413.8  3617.0  4001.7  377S.3  2787.5  2656.9  3121.8  4051.3  420.8  5203.4
222222222223222222    ___   __                                   3223222222222__22__32__2__22__33__2____C       22232222222222222222222222



- 72 -
atio) Electricity ibod - Annual Fiscial Statents - 1982-1995                                          20-ct-86
Finaning of Investmnt                                                        Page 10
INS million                                                                of 20
Fismial fear Endd Al. 31                                               1986    1987    1998    19          10      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
rjetion        ti---
TOIAL CNIPtLIU CS                                                    139.   1601.4  1536.9  1357.3   1115  1272.0  1572.3  1890.2  2041.7  1745.1
INTEES  CAPITALIZE                                                     98.9   116.6   130.0   1137.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   179.6   240.9   273.0
TOTAL IlERE                                                          145.4  1718.0   1666.9  1494.7  1248.9  1409.5  1703.7  2069.9  2282.6  2019.1
OSR=   OF FINlii
ft. Cotrition - RE Prois.                                             77.9    96.9    88.6    89.5    77.1         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Consemer k its                                                         28.4    29.8    30.8    33.2    35.7    38.4    41.3    44.3    47.4    51.7
Cash Available frm lwration                                           673.1   991.4   766.8   626.1   596.3   795.9   730.4   867.7   803.6   783.5
(lms  Liquidity Reqeremmats                                            21.8    12.4   (19.0   (16.S"   (11.9)    (1.7)   (15.21    (6.1)   (16.5)   (18.5)
INTIM    SOURMES IF FIWME                                             801.2  1119.5   E67.2   732.3   697.2   932.6   756.5   905.9   834.6   816.7
LOM
Proposwd I80 Loan                                                       0.0      6.6    70.6   116.6    51.6        4.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
1UD Loa  - Ongoing Projects                                            43.5    87.6    44.6    34.3        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
8-Lon - Ongolag ProjKts                                                 0.0      0.0   125.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      h,
Comitted Borrowings                                                   453.0   470.8   252.2    58.6    17.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Further Borroinp                                                      s60.8    33.5   307.3   552.9   483.1   572.3   947.2  1163.0  1448.0  1201.4
Total OtherLoan                                                       657.3   591.9   729.1    45.8   500.1   572.3   947.2  1163.0  1448.0  1201.4
novormt of   laysia Equity
TOTAL FINMJO                                                         1458.4  1719.0  1666.9  1494.7   124.9  1409.5  1703.7  2068.8  2292.6  2018.1



- 73 -
National Electricity Boad - Annual Financial Statents - l982-1995                                  20-Ot-86
Dorrouings Sulary                                                        Page It
I1l N llien)                                                           of 20
Financial Yea Ended Aug. 31                                          19U      1987    1M       1989     M90    IS91    1992    1993    19S4    1995
-----'---------------------  -----   Projections --------
LOAS                                 Aggregate
5t=tM IBRO    Low                   Borr oving
PSUOE  J8RD LOA1N555
Opening Balance                                                       0.0     0.0      6.6    77.2   193.8   235.0   218.8  17.9   177.1   156.2
Additions                                          250.0              0.0      6.6    70.6   116.6    51.6       4.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Interest Expense-                                                     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    17.1    15.4    13.7    12.0
Capitalized Interest                                                  0.0     0.3      3.5    11.2    17.6    18.7       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Amortization                                                          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    10.4    20.8    20.8    20.0    20.8    20.9
Closing Blanc                                                         0.0      6.6    77.2   193.8   235.0   218.8   197.9   177.1   156.2   135.4
TOTAL 131W LiS - 011901K PM1S.
Opmning Balance                                                     150.9   181.4   245.0   258.5   262.3   231.5   200.7    19.9   139.1   108.3
Additions                                          210.0             43.5    97.6    44.6    34.3       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                      6.8     6.6    15.9    14.2    22.6    19.0    16.9    14.1    11.3          8.5
Interest Capitalized                                                  9.3    13.9      7.7     9.8      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Aortization                                                          13.0    24.0    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.9    30.8    30.8
Closing blance                                                      191.4   245.0   258.8   267 3   231.5   200.7   169.9   139.1   108.3    77.5
PREVIOUS WORLD WUBAK LOANS
Opening Balance                                                     236.9   196.1   163.7   129.3   106,5    85.1    65.4    44.1    23.7          8.6
Additions                                            0.0              0.0     0.0      0,0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                     16.9    14.4    12.1      9.9      8.2      6.5     5.0      3.2     1.6      O.7
Interest Capitalized                                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0 0    0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Aortization                                                          40.7    32.4    34.4    22.8    21.4    19.7    21.3    20.4    15.1          7.8
Closing Balance                                                     196.1   163.7   129.3   106.5    85.1    65.4    44.1    23.7         8.6      0.8
a-LOAU - POW  I & Xl
Opening Balantc                                                       0.0     0.0      0.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   112.5   100.0
Additions                                          125.0              0.0     0.0   125.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                      0.0     0.0      5.3    10.6    10.6    10.6    10,6    10.1        9.0      9.0
Interest Capitalized                                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Amrtization                                                           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    12.5    12.5    12.5
Closing Balance                                                       0.0     0.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   112.5   100.0    87.5
EXISTINS % CONNITED ICAN
Opening Bala                                                       2666.2  2942.5  3189.0  3169.3  2923.6  2370.4  2148.5  1704.4  1350.1  1042.2
Additions                                         1251.6            453.0   470.9   252.2    58.6    17.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                    148.1   163.7   169.4   192.1   190.6   176.2   143.4   114.8    88.6    66.5
Interest Capitalized                                                 92.7    87.4    89.2    63.9    27.1        6.4     1.4      0.0     0.0      0.0
Artization                                                          176.7   224.3   271.9   304.3   370.3   421.9   444.1   354.3   307.9   260.3
Closing BlaKce                                                     2942.5  3189.0  :t69.3  2923.6  2570.4  2148.5  1704.4  1350.1  .042.2   782.0
FURTHER BORROWINGS
*ning Balate                                                          0.0   160.8   194.2   501.5  1042.9  1500.6  2023.3  2859.3  3837.2  5024.7
Additions                                         6869.4            160.0    33.5   307.3   552.9   483.1   572.3   947.2  1163.0  1449.0  1201.4
Interest Expense                                                      0.0     0.0      0.0    12.7    13.4    35.3    72.9    98.1   124.7   181.4
Interest Capitalized                                                  6.8   1.1    29.6    52.5    93.6   112.4   130.0   118.6   240.9   273.0
Aortizantin                                                           0.0      0.0     0,0    11.5    25.4    49.7   111.1   195.1   260.5   279.8
Closing Balance                                                     160.8   194.2   301.5  1042.9  1500.6  2023.3  2859.3  3837.2  5024.7  5946.2
TOTAL LoAN
opening Balante                                                    3053.9  3480.9  3798.6  4261.1  4654.1  4747.6  4781.6  5100.7  5639.7  6440.1
Additions                                         7504.6            657.3   598.5   799.7   762.4   551.7   576.9   947.2  1163.0  1448.0  1201.4
Interest Expense                                                    171.9   184.6   202.7   229.5   245.4   248.3   266.0   255.8   248.9   277.0
Interest Capitalized                                                 98.9   116.6   130.0   137.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   178.6   240.9   273.0
Repaynt                                                             230.4   280.7   337.1   369.4   459.2   542.9   628.2   623.9   647.6   612.0
Closing Balance                                                    3490.8  379S.6  4261.1  4654.1  4747.6  4781.6  5100.7  5639.7  6440.1  7029.4
CPITALIZED iNElEST
Opening Balance                                                     193.3   227.2   230.1    2O2.0   248.4   212.9   201.4   212.0   263.4   372.6
Additions                                                            98.9   116.6   130.0   137.4   138.4   137.5   131.4   178.6   240.9   273.0
Capitalizations                                                      55.0   113.6   139.1   111.0   173.9   149.1   120.8   127.2   131.7   111.8
Closing Balance                                                     227.2   230.1   222.0   248.4   212.9   201.4   212.0   263.4   372.6   533.8
x2za22zha ClSSS5D2D2a utmus=



- 74 -
National Electritity wrd - kAnual Financial Statsnts - 192-t95                                       20-Oct-86
IBND LoUan Paraeters                                                     Pagn 12
MS million)                                                              of 20
Financial Y u Endd   g. 31        USS               a                 196      1987    1998    1989    19S0    1991    1992    1993    1994          MI5
AgWr.            Aggr.           -----------------  -------
sug:zagau:gsxuanss   =2u2s2               9fl23U 
Proposed Projfet                   160.0            400.0                      15 1   119.0   166.4    79W9    21.2
Project Cost - Foreign Cop.        105.8            264.4                       6.8    72.0   119.0    52.7    14.1
Foreign Cooponent - Bau  Cot       92.0             230.0                       6.1    63.3   103.5    45.3    11.9
IBRO Financed Expenditares        100.0             250.0                      6.6    70. 6   116.6    51.6       4.6
PRIIPOSED LOAll -                                          Rate
ipening Palnco                                             z                    0.0     6.6    77.2   193.8   235.0   218.8   197.9   177.1   156.2
toitalized Intteres4t          20.5              51.3     6.21              0.3      3.5    11.2    17.6    19.7
est Expense                                                                                                          17.1    15.4    13.7    12.0
i.rtizatoon                                                                                              1O.4    20.6    20.6    20.8    20.8    20.6
Closing alance                                                                  &.6    77.2   193.8   235.0   215.8   197.9   177.1   156.2   135.4
MOULD RAW LOAN - POiR 11
Opening Balance                                                        0.6    20.8    79.0   109.0   129.7   116.1   102.5    98.9    75.3    61.7
Additions                                                             20.0    64.0    44.6    34.3
Interest Expense                                                                                         10.1     9.0      7.9      6.9     5.6      4.5
Interest Capitalized                                                   0.9      4.1      7.7     9.8
iortization                                                                     6.8    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6
Closing Balance                                                       20.8    79.0   109.0   129.7   116.1   102.5    68.9    75.3    61.7    48.1
WORL  BA  LOAN - PIUR I
Opening Balnce                                                        64.5    80.3    87.7    79.3    70.9    62.5    54.1    45.7    37.3    28.9
Additions                                                             20.0    15.9
Interest Expense                                                                        9.7      8.7      7.7     6.9      5.9      4.8     3.9      2.9
Interest Capitalized                                                   9.4      9.7
Aaotization                                                            4.2      8.4     8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4      9.4     8.4      8.4
Closing Balance                                                       80.3    87.7      9.3    70.9    62.5    54.1    45.7    37.3    28.9    20.5
-JSSSessssss    #S ssss:s;:sssass   SS=55z5::55  : :                                                                        **XXXttsSsrXXX#s=:
WOLD UA  LO   - PWBI 11
opening Balance                                                       85.6    90.3    79.3    70.5    61.7    52.9    44.1    35.3    26.5    17.7
Additions                                                              3.5      7.8
Interest Expens                                                        6.8      6.6     6.2      5.5      4.7     4.0      3.3      2.5     1.8      1.1
Interest Capitalized
tanrtlzation                                                           8.8      8.8       8      8.8      8.3     a.8      8.a      8.8     8.8      8.8
Closing Balance                                                       90.3    79.3    70.5    61.7    52.9    44.1    35.3    26.5    17.7           8.9
TOTAL IIBD LIS - BODING PRJS.
pning Balanc                                                         150.    191.4   245.0   258.8   262.3   231.5   200.7   169.9   139.1   108.3
Additions                                                             43.5    87.6    44.6    34.3        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Interest Expefnw                                                       6.8      6.6    15.9    14.2    22.6    19.8    16.9    14.1    11.3          9.5
Interest Capitalized                                                   9.3    13.8      7.7      9.8      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Asrtizatimn                                                           13.0    24.0    30.9    30.9    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.8    30.8
Closing Balance                                                      181.4   245.0   258.8   262.3   231.5   200.7   169.9   139.1   108.3    77.5
PRVIOUS WORLD 8nu    m  LOS
pning Balae                                                          236.8   196.1   163.7   129.3   106.5    85.1    65.4    44.1    23.7           8.6
Additions
Interent Expense                                                      16.9    14.4    12.1       S.9      8.2     6.5      5.0      3.2      1.6     0.7
Interest Capitalized
Aartization                                                           40.7    32.4    34.4    22.8    21.4    19.7    21.3    20.4    15.1           7.8
Closing balance                                                      196.1   163.7   129.3   106.5    85.1    65.4    44.1    23.7           9.6     0.9
I-XLOU - PCIIER I  X II
Opening Balance                                                                         0.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   112.5   100.0
Additions                                                                              125.0
Interest Ehpenu                                                                         5.3    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.1         9.0      8.0
Interest Capitalized
Aotization                                                                                                                         12.5    12.5    12.5
Closing Balance                                                                        125.0   125.0   t25.0   125.0   125.0   112.5   100.0    87.5
TOTAL INTERST EIPII19                                                23.7    21.0    33.3    34.7    41.4    3.9    45.7    42.9    35.6    29.2
TOTAL CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                             9.3    141I    11.1    21.0    17.6    18.7         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                                                    53.7    56.4    65.2    53.6    62.6    71.3    72.9    84.5    79.2    71.9
*ll2z#C=S:mm,:uS 3g#Sss                                           tS  :S:   S   :t;S:SS   '#SS=t=S:Iu5"SXS#ISw



- 75 -
atileal Electricity Ibord -nnual Financial Statents -    2-195                                          20-0ct-8
Coeitted jad furthw Loans                                                       Pap 13
(19  lilhoi1                                                                of
FinancIl YWa Ended Ag. 31                                                1914    19I       1998     1999     t0       1991     1992     1993     1994    199
Averae                           ------'------Proetiotns---------- - -
""Rate                                                  u"$g*s ug|esy sW*n
Cemitted Loan.
Opening Balace                                                         264.   2942.5 M   319.0   3a.3  2923.1  2570.4  2149.5  1704.4  10.1  1042.2
Additions                                                               15.0   470.6   252,2    Yl6.    17.0
lnterntt
coniag blow                                                          211.6   192.5   169.4    146.3   123.2   100.1    77.0    62.0           $1.0    44.1
1916 Ornwwm                                                           19.3    38.5    38.5    353.        30.3    24.8    19,3    13.6        9.3      2.8
1917 Oruidmm                                                                  20.0    40.0    40.0    37.2    31.4    23.7    20.0    14.3             0.6
199  Draudem                                                                            10.7    '1.4    21.4    19.9    iS.8    13.9         10.7      7.7
1999  radon                                                                                       2.5      S.C     5.0      4.6       3.9      3.2     2.5
1990 Draudm                                                                                               0.Y       1.4     i.4      1.3      l.a      0.:9
Aggrelate Interest Expen                                                148.1    163.7    19.4   182.1    1i.6    16.2   143.4 t        14.9 a   96      66.5
A-qregate Capitalized Interest                                           92.7      7.4     89,2    i3.9      4.1       .6       1.4
Amirtizatie4t
Opening  iaance                                                      176.7   '.4.3    271.9   271.9   271.9   271.9    ZL9    176.7   129.1           81.5
1996 Drawd                                                                                       32.4    64.7    44.7    64.7    64.1        64.7    64.7
1997 Dradim                                                                                              33.6    6713    67.3    67.3    47.3         b.3
198 Draudoen                                                                                                      1S.0    36.0    36.0   3U.0    36.0
1999 Draudon                                                                                                                 4.2      9.4     L.a      9.4
1990 Iraudu                                                                                                                           1.      2.4      2.4
Aggrgate bpaymnt                                                        176.7   224.3   21t,.   304.3   370.3   42i.9   444.1   354.3   307.9   260.3
Clusing Balace                                                         2942.5  3199.0  3169.4   223.6  1570.4  2148.5   1704.4  135.1  1042 2    792.0
Further  nrruinfs
opening balance                                                           0.0    160.9   194.2   SW5S   1042.9   15MM.   2023.3  2959.3  M37.2  5024.7
Additio nL,                                                                       33.5   307.3   552. 1    4033.        .     97.2   1163.0   1448.0  1201.4
Interests
1996 Oradw                                                             aR      13.7     13.7    12.7    10.7        1.9 as    .      4.9       2.9     1.0
19M7 Crauidw                                                                    1.4      2.8      2.0      2.6      2.2      t.8      1.4     1.0      0.6
1988 Iradon                                                                             !3.1    26.1    26.1    24.3       20.5    16.9    13.1        S.3
1999 Dtran                                                                                      23.5    41.0    47.0    43.6    36.9    30.2    25.5
1990 oradwn                                                                                              20.5    41.1    41.1   3S.1         2.3    29.2
1I9  Drauo                                                                                                        24.3    49.6      4.6      42       40,U
192 Drado                                                                                                                  40.3    90.5    80.5    76.5
1993 Dradt                                                                                                                          49.4    99.9      ".9
194 PrDr                                                                                                                                     6i.5   123.1
1915 Oraudu                                                                                                                                           51.1
Aggregate Interest Expense                                                0.0      0.0      0.0     12.7    13.4    35.3    12.8         .1    124.    191.4
Aqqgrea  Capitalied Interet                                               6.8    15.1    29,6    52.5    93.6    112.4    130.0    178.6    240.9   273.0
Aortization:
199 Drawdom                                                                                     11.1    23.0      23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0        4.0
1987 Draudo.                                                                                              2.4      4.9      4.9       4.8     4.,      4.6
1999 Draudou                                                                                                      21.9     43.9    43.9      43.9    43.9
1999 Drauo                                                                                                                 39.5    79.0    79.0    55.3
1990 irsdom                                                                                                                         34.5    69.0    48.3
1991 Dra_o.                                                                                                                                  40.9    57.2
1992 Drnim                                                                                                                                            47.4
Aggregate Repayent                                                        0.0      0       0.0    11.5    25.4    49.7   111.1    195.1    .60.5   279.8
Closing Balance                                                         160.8   194.2   501.5  1042.    1500.6  2023.3  2859.1   3937.2  5024.7  594.2
ina38inu $8#2a8u s8,a                                                a:r        : t : :            s a       2st as a:t a  



- 76 -
NetiRns EletriCitY DOa   -   st Finaial Statunto - 1932-1"                '                                 20-ct-86
lalen  and Iswration                                                            PAe 14
Dkll NIii*o)                                                                  of 20
Finncial Yr Endl lug. 31                                          199      IS        197      1968     1999      1M      I9I      192       IM93     1994     1995
CAEGR  Of CIUE
___. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~------ _-= _IJt*$
Industrial                                                    4454      4672     4St    5U          5058     635      6962      7586      237       8       9727
Colsici                                                        3491     3717     305       40       434      45m       4641     5115     5410      56SS     6020
Doesc                                                          21tS     24U      265       236      310      3433      3708     391       4291     459      4928
Rining       -                                                  616      45       461       467        3       527      542      564      569       59       600
Public Ligting                                                   97      102       109      t7       126       136      139      143       149      150      IS0
IEi9 189                                                         10611    11367    12121    1273    13m2    15059    161N    1739           1965     19995    21425
K   IR                                                                        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
NlET SEIERTI                                                              11367    12128    12973    1362           15059    1610    17399    195i6   1995    21425
Line Loss                                                                  1364      1455     1557     1678      1807     1943     209       229      2399     2571
Auiliy_ Cnsutio                                                             611       652      697      762       910      97O      S35      1003     1075      1152
TUTU. LOSS                                                                 IM75     2107      2254     2450     2617      2913     3023      3242     3474     3723
iR096 9DBATION                                                            13342    14235    15227    16412    17676    19003    20422    219         23469    2514
EATiS    Wm SOIE  16Mb)
m1l                                                                     7671     8314      6429     4263     2329        41      126       231      ISO       123
line                                                                     230      218       200      192       164      147      130       112       71        0
adius 9it                                                                  I        0         0        0         0        0        0         0       0        0
Su  Turbine - Eat Coast                                                 2599     2872      5512     5456     5502      5114     5497     5910      5897     5741
GS  Turbine - Vest Cout                                                                                       3336     5830     9267      7784    1062      11445
i                                                                                                 3523     3425      4722     3405     469       3394     4693
.R*                                                                     2642     2032     308       2986     2917      3149     2n       320       330      31U6
Rigi vahtage IC - N
Grove Generation                                                          1331:    14235    15227    16412    17676    19003    20422    21S99    23469    25149
CFACITY By 99111  (ml
Oil                                                                     1795     1795      1795     17         405      405      405       355      355      355
Diesel                                                                    72           72     7.      72        12       72       72        72       54        0
Rdiu  Oil                                                                180      IBO      1t0       180         0        0        0         0        0        0
On  Turbin - East Coast                                                  900       900      9o0       9o0      9o                900       900      900      900
Su Turbine - Nst Cust                                                      0        0         0        0      1648     168      1648      1946     22       2549
Coal                                                                       0         0        0      600       600      600      600       600      600      600
H*o ir1236                                                                       1236      1236     1236      1296     1296     1296      1296     1296     12
H  bVoltqe IC -  8ta                                                                         ke                                             
Hiih Vottap  K  - kko                                  ~~~~0      0        0        0         0        0        .0        0        0         0
Available Capcity                                                          4173     47       4173      4741      4921     492.1    4921      5171     5453     5699
__~~~~~~~~m                                           m s m m s~z.s,u                         a ~ ss                      __s2a zzz



- 7 7 
Ratioe.l UKtricitv  ewd -  _Aa  FiKial ttaatsm        -      9f                                    20Oct4
(14NilIaln                                                             4  1
F sial VW   dEd 4. St                                                19W     198      19       199      99,0  11   11      2t   1913    194    1
---------         e---e-----
ltal Oet Escalatle Factr                                            1.000   1.015   1.035   5.044   1.034    3.0       1.110   1.17    1.9    1.23
n TIU By aUCE (Bb)
Oil                                                               72372    0314    642      4243    2329       41     124      231     150      123
iesl                                                               23e     219      200      12n     144      147     12 In             It       0
Hadivm OilI                                                                  0        0            0           0                0        0       1
aS Trbine - East Cant                                             20    2972    312    54           502    5114    W9    I1'l          97    S574
Su Turbin - lant Coat                                                0       0        0                      2l33    o2n      77i    low      It
coal                                                                                                                                           449
We                                               26   282   S              N ;   B           3    324 X   g           D 2ol  i
,yor                                                                                                                                           314 -          e e     
Risk 1oap IC______6                                                                                             4       4                        0 
gross  i*wstim                                                      I332 l4235   15227   1u? 2   17674   190           202    219    2343    2314
as  PRICE il FIk (SIoIklkS                        F;t.1ice
oil                                          US Jtoe                        5.3     5.3      S.4     54       5.7     5.7      5.7     5.7      5.7
Diee                                         US1A124Itoeo                   49      4.9      6.9      .9      6.9     4.9      4.9     (.       4 .9
radius Oil                                   U9l2OItos                     6.9      6.9      t.9     4.9      *.9     4.9      6.1     6.9      4.9
Gat Turbine -ast "Cost                       P5/PJA1I1                      4.2     4.2      4.3     4.3      4.4     4.4      4.4     4.5      4.5
Gas Turbise - lest coast                     RS4192U                                                 5.7      5.7     S.C.    3.1      5.8      5.3
Coal                                         aSmtopt                                         4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3
Kih         IC - hi,                                                                                                                            5.i
LSf COSt OF FUEL
0i1                                                                       437.3   341.5   223.8   126.2       2.4     7.2    13.1      8.5      '.0
Diel                                                                       15.0    13.0    12.5    11.3    10.5       0.9      7.7     4.9      0.O
adiu oil                                                                   0.0      0.       0.0     o.0      0.0     0.0      o.0     0.0      0.0
Oas Turbin - Efat Cust                                                    120.3   233.3   233.2   237.5   223.0   242.2   258.4   264.9   240.5
an Turbioe - last Cot                                                      0.0      0.0      0.0   190.3   M.3   475.    44U.1   411.9   658.9
coal                                                                        0.0     0.0   150.1   145.9   201.1   145.1   l99.i   144.4   1SS.9
Ilydre                                                                     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Nigh Voltase IC - flak,                                                     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
USf CeT eF FUEL                                                              572.6   59.5   624.4   711.2   148.5   879.2   927.2  1034.3  1126.3
FUEL CST                                                                     581.2   60S.2   653.0   751.0   S30.3   962.5  1072.5  1238.8  1395.5
,mm3s3ugus                                                                #SZZ*#3S*,#3
aKPU   SES                                                            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Purchass   199 Prices                                        14.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
14Sf CUST CF P    lCH                                                 0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
COST OF OKK PMCWAB                                 ~~~~~0.0  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
S.et. 1, 198
CM. t IAII. - U\SE COS1                  Price SSn/iklh)
Oil                                              0.69             54.3    57.4    44.4    29.4   1U.1         0.3     0.S      1.6     1.0      0.9
Diesel                                           5.00             11.5    10.9    10.0       9.1     6.2      7.4     4.5      5.6     3.4     0.0
ladti  Ojl                                       0.69              0.0     0.0      0.o      0.0     0.0      0.e     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Oa turbine - fast Coast                          0.54             14.0    15.5    29.8    29.5    29.7    27.6    Z9.7    31.4    31.8    31.0
Gas tubl. - liat Cast                            0.54              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    18.0    31.1    44.4    42.0    57.4    41.1
Coal                                             0.69              0.0     0.0      0.0    24.3    23.4    32.6    23.5    32.4    23.4    32.4
qydra                                           0.94             24.8    26.6    29.0    29.1    21.4    29.6    28.2    30.7    31.1    29.4
Hitg Voltge K - pan                                                0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
ONSE COST OF eFs. 6 rAUT.                                           104.7   110.4   113.1   120.4   123.1   120.9   133.4   143.7   14.3   155..
WERATIOS & tIIITEIIIlCE                                             104.7   112.0   117.1   125.6   130.0   139.2   149.0   166.2   177.5   192.6
National flectricity hrd - Rnel Fiancial Stateouts - 1982-IM95                                     20-0tt-86
Sq Pt. 1, 1SX6
M     EPWSS - BiSE COST                      Prict .Sn/kih)
Traueissis                                       0. 19            21.6    23.0    24.6    24.4    29.6    30.0    33.1    35.4    38.0    40.7
istribotion                                      0.98            100.0   104.7    U4.2   123.0    12.5   142.5    13.1   144.2   174.0   198.5
Cuour  evicn                                     0.14             15.9    17.0    19.2    19.6    21.1    22.7    24.4    26.1    23.0    30.0
hatw  bad4                                       0.31             35.2    37.4    40.2    43.3    46.7    50.2    53.9    57.6    U.0    46.4
Traifial and blfare                              0.26             29.4    31.5    33.7    36.4    39.2    42.1    45.2    46.1    52.0    15.7
*duieistraties                                   0.26             29.6    11.1    33.7    36.4    9.2    42.        45.2    41.5    52.0    55.7
Geneira                                          0.32             34.4    3.9    45.5    44.7    43.2    51.         555.7    59.7    64.4    40.6
TOTM. Ot   Er. - Usf COST                           2.4            248.3   206.2   306.2   330.0   355.4   392.1   410.6   440.3   472.9   505.6
TOTAL OT     MM                                                     HU26.    290.5   316.9   345.0   375.3   412.6   458 9   509.3   54.9    26.5
0M  CS 11t1B EIPEES                                                 m.9   402.4   434.0   470.3   505.2   551.3   407.9   415.5   742.5   819.



- 78 -
National Electricity krd - Annua Financial Statnents - 1M2-lYIS                                   204ct-86
Taxes and Dividends                                                    Pae 16
U1 WUllinI                                                             of 20
Financial Ye  Ended Avg. 31                                         1986    IW1      1       199     190    1 19192    1993    1W              I95
---PrOJOCiMs
INllE BEFOII    TAB I DIVIKIS                                      597.2   937.5   9.   1023.9  1016.7  1075.2  1019.7  105L6  1030.4  1040.0
eprciation                                                         345.1   412.2   493.2   523.3   603.0   650.2   72.o   m.0   864.4   951.1
Adi. fr Sale of Assets                                              11.5)   (1.4)   (1.3O   11.2)   11.1)   (1.0)   (0.9)   (0.6)   (0.73   (0.6)
Total Iililua"tpsnu                                               343.6   410.8    91.9   522.1   601.9   649.2   72.1   790.2   863.7   950.5
IICIIIE iEflE o EIIUCTI                                            940.8  1348.3  1446.0  1546.0  1619.5  1724.4  1741.1  1848.7  1894.1  1990.6
(lln) kedctions
Initial Allmaeu                                                 228.4   452.7   230 3   509.1   403.3   277.2   223.0   205.1   254.4   312.4
Annul Capital Allnuae                                           276.4   389.3   446.7   523.7   624.2   693.3   748,9   79.8   8631    940.9
Other ODeutions                                                   0.5     0.6      0.6     0.7     0.7      0.8     0.8     0.9      0.9      1.0
Tottl keductions                                                505.3   142.5   678.1   933.4  1029.3   971.2   972.5  1005.7  1118.3  1254.2
4AM!E IllE                                                         435.5   505.8   767.9   712.6   590.3   753.2   769.2   843.1   7M5.7   736.3
sam*aaumaaumsuuuamarn       ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ wxaaxaax
Pcenta  of Inate Tn                                                  45T      452     45       452     452     452      45T     452      452     452
illCOIE TA                                                         196.0   227.6   345.6   320.7   265.6   338.9   34.2   37.4   349.1   331.4
NET IICOII AFTER TAX                                              597.2   709.9   608.6   703.2   751.1   736.2   673.5-  679.2   691.3   709.7
OMt. of Nalaysda Invotount                                         849.4   648.4   84.4   848.4   949.4   94.4   849.4   948          048.4   948.4
Percentage of Dividend                                                53       53      5!      5        52      52       52      52      52       53
DIVIDEON                                                           42.4    42.4    44    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4
IMCOIE BFORE AWUSTUENS                                           554.7   667.5   4'.,   660.8   70.6   693.9   631.1   636.9   639.9   666.3
M    *man ----                                                ass*~18222222222.       3322222222222282222au22
AdJustents                                                          (1.5)   (1.4)   (1.3)   (1.2)   (1.1)   (1.0)   (0.9)   (0.9)   (0.7)   (0.6)
lET INCONE                                                         553.2   666.1   564.9   659.6   707.5   692.0   630.2   636.0   638.2   665.7
w__~m z                                                     m arnaaz8u~                         sa m        usmr                           22



- 79 -
Mational Electricity Bowd - bn;.4 Fiancil Statents - 1912-IM                                      20ct-86
Raceivables and Payabln                                                   Pape 17
(INS filligol                                                          Of 20
Finascial Year Eaded Aug. 31                                ISS    1994    I97    1998    1989    19O    1SI    I92    13    1994    1991
(Act.)                                  -Prrjections--__
COTS  CE I9I
Sale to Publi Sectr                                        263.6   253.8   257.S   275.4   296.8   319.7   343.7   369.4   394.1   424.5   462.2
Payet cycle (ka)                                             91       SO      90       90      9       9                                 90      90
Public Sctwr brivables                                     65.9    62.6    63.5    67.9    73.2    78.8    84.8    91.1    97.7   104.7   114.0
SaIlS to Privat SectWr                                    2135.8  2053.7  2083.2  22Z2.4  20I.?  2506.7  2781.0  2918.6  3204.5  344.5  373.9
Pavyet Cycle (Days)                                          46       45      4        43      42      41       40      39      38       37      36
Privte Sctr Reivables                                      271.5   255.4   253.4   265.0   279.0   293.4   307.9   322.6   33.1   351.9   372.9
TOTAL ACCOINITS RECEIVABLE                                 337.4   318.0   316.9   332.9   352.2   372.2   m.5   413.7   434.9   456.6   486.9
ACOUS PAYAE
O       ITIUCTtIN EIPENDITIE                              1215.9  139.4  1601.4  1536.9  1357.3  1110.5  1272.0  1572.3  189.2  2041.7  1745.1
INITIEY                                                   357.9   438.3   520.4   550.9   629.2   697.7   774.0   851.0   924.7  1016.1  1121.9
lcer of says                                                 50       50      50      50       50      50       50      50      S0       50      50
CAPITAL PAYAIL                                            215.6   246.3   290.7   286.0   M.l   246.3   280.3   332.0   385.9   418.9   3.7
COSTS O OUTIIS
Fuel                                                      1161.3   9O9.0   501.2   609.2   653.0   751.0   930.3   992.5  1072.5  1238.8  1395.5
kulk Purchass                                              13.7      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Cbh lpwatieg Expesns                                347.5   372.9   402.6   434.0   470.8   50.2   551.8   607.9   675.5   742.5   619.3
TOTAL COSTS F O T                                         1542.5  1357.9   983.8  1043.3  1123.9  1256.2  1302.0  159.5  114.0  I198.3  2214.9
user o  a                                                    24       24      24      24       24      24       24      24      24       24      24
PRTII    PYABL                                             101.4    9.3    64.7    68.6    73.9    92.6    90.9   104.6   114.9   130.3   145.6
MOTAL PIDIECE) PMABES                                     317.0   335.6   355.4   354.6   34.0   32.9   371.1   434.5   500.8   549.2   53.4
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



Page 18 of 20
- 80 -
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Income Statement
(1)   Total Generation -  is derived in the table entitled
"Sales and Generation" (page 14).
(2)   Losses -- is derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 14).
(3)   Power Sold -  is derived in the table entitled "Sales
and Generation" (page 14).
(4)   Income from Electricity Sales -- is derived in the table
entitled "Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 6).
(5)   Net Revenue Exclusive of Sales -  is projected to
increase by 5% per year.
(6)   Fuel Expense -- is derived in the table entitled "Direct
Cash Flow" (page 15).
(7)   Bulk Purchases Expense -- is derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow" (page 15).
(8)   Other Cash Operating Expense -  is derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow (page 15).
(9)   Depreciation -- is derived in the table entitled "Fixed
Asset Formation (page 9).
(10) Sundry Receipts - is assumed to increase from 1985
levels by 5% each year.
(11) Total Interest Payments -- is the swu of interest
capitalized and interest charged to operations.
(12) Interest Capitalized - is derived in the schedule
entitled "Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(13) Interest Charged to Operations - is derived in the
schedule entitled "Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(14) Transfers from Contributions Accounts -- are derived
in the schedule entitled "Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
These transfers represent the rate at wbich fixed assets,
which were financed by contributions, are absorbed into
NEB's plnt and equipment, and correspondingly, the rate
at which these contributions are being absorbed into NEB's
net worth.
(15) Income Tax - is derived in the schedule entitled "Taxes
and Dividends" (page 16).



Page 19 of 20
- 81 -
(16) Dividend -- is derived in the schedule entitled "Taxes
and Dividends" (page 16).
Flow of Funds
(17)  Gross Consumer Contributions -  is derived in the
schedule entitled "Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(18)  Net Working Capital Increases -- excludes Cash and
Liquidity Requirements.
(19)  Principal Repayments - is derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(20)  Twelfth Power Porject - is derived in the schedule
entitled "Capitalization Values" (page 8).
(21)  Other Projects -- is derived in the schedule entitled
"Capitalization Values" (page 8).
(22)  Capitalized Interest -- is derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 11).
(23) Govt. Contributions--RE Projects -- is derived in the schedule
entitled t'Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(24)  Consumer Deposits -  are assumed to increase directly in
proportion to tariff revenues.
(25)  All IBRD and B Loan Drawdowns -- are derived in the table
entitled "IBRD Loan Parameters" (page 12).
(26)  Committed and Existing Loans - are derived in the table
entitled "Committed and Further Loans" (page 13).
(27)  Further Borrowings -- is derived in the table entitled
"Committed and Further Loans" (page 13).
(28)  Cash -- is assumed at 17 days operating requirements.
Balance Sheet
(29)  Gross Fixed Assets in Operation -- is derived in the
table entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(30)  Accumulated Depreciation -- is derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(31)  Net Fixed Assets on Operation -- is derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).



- 82-                              Page 20 of 20
(32)  Work in Progress -  is derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(33)  Inventory -  is projected to decrease gradually from
about 5X to 42 of Gross Fixed Assets.
(34)  Fuel Inventories -  are projected at about 24 days
requirements.
(35)  Accounts Receivable -- is derived In the table entitled
"Receivables and Payables" (page 17).
(36)  Other Receivables - is projected to inc:easQ in relation
to inflation. This account includes contributions and
other payments due from GOM, many of whic-h are received late
in GOM's fiscal year (meaning early in NEB's following non-
coincident financial year).
(37)  Reevaluation Reserve -  is derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(38)  Liquidity for Investment and Liquidity Borrowings -  are
those uses or sources of incremental cash necessary to
enable NAB to maintain cash at 17 days operating require-
ments.
(39)  Accounts Payable -- are derived in the schedule entitled
"Receivables and Payables" (page 17).
(40)  Other Current Liabilities -  is expected to increase
by about 10% per year. This includes mainly accrued
interest and retention payments.



- 83 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inventory of Fixed Assets and Fixed Asset Accounting Study
Terms of r zference
Objective
The objective of the inventory of fixed assets would be:
(a) to verify independently NEB's catalogue and evaluation of its fixed
assets, the primary records of which are centrally located at the
Accounts Department Head Office, as on August 31, 1987.
(b) to verify independently NEB's catalogue and clearance of the Work in
Progress account. The relevant primary records are located at
various District Accounting Units. As necessary, procedures govern-
ing the capitalization of completed works may need to be revised;
and
(c) to review NEB's methodology for revaluation of fixed assets.
Scope of Work
The study would include:
(a) A verification of NEB's comprehensive inventory of Fixed Assets,
categorized as Generation, Transmission, Distribution, movable, and
other assets, an of August 31, 1987.
(b) A verification of valuations based on historical costs, or where
unavailable a reasonable estimate thereof, adjusted for depreciation
up to the date of valuation.
(c) A verification of the items included in NEB's work in progress
account; based on a physical inventory of generating plants,
substations and office buildings and a review of engineering data
regarding transmission and distribution lines, make recommendations
(as appropriate) for capitalizing items currently included under
work in progress.
(d) Review NEB's procedures governing the movement of items between work
in progress and gross fixed assets. As appropriate, recommend
adjustments to those procedures to ensure future consistency between
NEB's accounting records, engineering records, and generally
accepted accounting practices. Review NEB's depreciation rules and
regulations and recommend adjustments as may be needed to ensure
consistency between the accounting records, operational data, and
generally accepted accounting practices.



- 84 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
(e) Develop a system for the periodic inspection and verification of
movable assets.
(f) Develop comprehensive schedules indicating the replacement Yoe.lue of
gross fixed assets, as of August 31, 1987, based on the results of
the preceeding fixed asset inventory and a review of depreciation
schedules. Assist NEB by developing a methodology for regularly up-
dating this revaluation based on a system of indexation of histori-
cal cost data.
Terms of Reference
(a)  Review and amend (as appropriate) NEB's comprehensive list of fixed
assets, classified into Generation, Transmission, Distribution,
Movable and other Assets.
(b) Review and amend (as appropriate), the accorded value based on
historical cost where available (or a reasonable estimate thereof
where historical cost cannot be established), adjusted for
depreciation through August 31, 1987.
(c) Review and amend (as appropriate) NEB's list of plant and equipment
residing irn work in progress.
(d) Review and recommend changes (as appropriate) in accounting entries
for all of the items identified in activity (c), including
capitalizations to gross fixed assets; and retain in work in
progress amounts properly reflecting that portion of these works
still to be completed.
(e) Review NEB's procedures to be used upon placement into service of an
asset, paying particular attention to those rules for capitalizing
work in progress to gross fixed assets, and make recommendations (as
appropriate) for adjustments to those procedures.
(f) Ensure that records and accounting for work in progress and its
transfer to gross fixed assets are consistent with the requirements
of generally accepted accounting principles.
(g) Review and amend (as appropriate) formats for fixed asset registers.
(h) Review depreciation procedures and recommend (as appropriate)
adjustments to reflect more appropriately NEB's experience
concerning the useful lives of assets.
(i) Recompute NEB's accumulated depreciation based on the preceeding
fixed asset inventory and the newly recommended depreciation
schedules. As necessary, recommend accounting treatment to be used
for adjusting the difference between the computation of accumulated
depreciation according to the depreciation schedule formerly in use
and that computed according to the new schedule.



- 85 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
(j) Ensure that the new accoanting treatments recommended for
depreciation are consistent with generallf accepted accounting
principles.
(k) Develop a system for the periodic inspection and verification of
movable assets and, as necessary, prepare manuals describing the
recommended procedures to be folloired by NEB staff.
(1) Based on the preceeding fixed asset inventory and a list of
component costs adjusted to August 31, 1986 levels, compile a list
of NEB's fixed assets valued at replacement cost as of that date and
compute accumulated depreciation schedules appropriate to the change
in asset value.
(m) Review NEB's application of the fixed asset deflator and recommend
an accounting treatment whereby adjustments required by changes in
the index for past years may be taken in the current year.
(n) Compare the results obtained to date by using the fixed asset
deflator with those obtained from the preceding list of revalued
assets. As appropriate recommend a formula to adjust the fixed
asset deflator.



866-                                                      ANNEX 21
Table I
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICtENCY AND PLANT REWABILITATION PROJECT
National Electricit; bard (NEI)
Tariff SUMmar
Rates before 9/1/85                                       Rates after 9/1185                      Rates
Category                   io sen per unit               Category                    In sen per unit                  after 3/13/86
Tariff A,                                                Tariff A
%-mot c     For the first 100 unite  20 sen          DoetcFor the first 100 unite  20 men                    No change
tariff            per month                              tariff             per month
for the next 900 units   23 sen                           For the next 900 units   23 sen
per month                                                 per mionth
For each additional        26 sen                         For each additional        26 sen
untt per month                                            unit per month
Tariff S                                                 Tariff B
lZ:ow-votage    For the first 200,000    25 sen         Low--voltage      For all units              24 sen      No change except
commercial        unitj per conth                        commercial                                              102 discount given
tariff          For each additional        27 sen       tariff                                                   to hotels
unit per mionth
Tariff C                                                 Tariff Cl
Nigh-voltage   For each kilowatt of        M$12        MTed7-'oltage  For each kilowatt of           M$12        No change except
commercial        maximtum demand per                   general com-        maximum demand per                   102 discount given
tariff            month                                 mercial tariff    month                                  to hotels
For the first 800,000    19 sen                           For all units              .8 sen
units per month
For each additional        21 sen
unit per month
Tariff C2
Mediuam-voltage  For each kilowatt of       4($l9       No chanLge except
peak/off-peak      maximum demand per                   102 discount given
commercial         month during the                     to hotels
tariff             peak period
For all units during       18 sen
the peak period
For all unnts $.iring       8 sen
the of f-peak period
Tariff D                                                Tariff D
Lo-oltage    For the first 200,000    23 sen          -Tw-WVoltage        For all units              21 sen     No change except
industrial        units per month                       induatrial                                               102 discount given
tariff          For each additional        25 sen       tariff                                                  to all industries
unit per month                                                                                and 202 discount
given to approved
textile industries



-87 -                                                         ANN b21
Tabre I
MALAYSIA
FNERGy EFFICIENCY Am PLANT RENAILITATION PROJECT
Nktional tlectriitty oard (NEI)
Tariff Summary
Rates before 9/1/85                                     Rates after 9/1/85                    Rates
Category                  in sen per unit              Category                   in sen per unit                 after 3/13/86
Tariff E                                               Tariff E1
High-voltage   For each kilowatt of      Y$12          medium-voltage  For each kilowatt of       M$12       No change except
industrial       maxi2um demand per                    general indus-    maximum demand per                   102 discount given
tariff           month                                 trial tariff       month                              to all industries
For the first 2,000,000  17 sen                         For all units             16 sen      and 20% discount
units per month                                                                             given to approved
For each additional       16 sen                                                              textile industries
unit per month
Tariff E2
Medivoltage  For each kilowatt of         M$17        No change except
peak/off-peak     maximum demand per                  102 discount given
industrial        month during the                    to all industries
tariff            peak period                         and 202 discount
For all units during      16 sen     given to approved
the peak period                    textile industries
For all units during       a sen
the off-peak period
Tariff e3
Righ-voltage    For each kilowatt of      M$15        No change except
peak/off-peak     maximum demand per                  IO  discount given
industrial        month during the                    to all industries
tariff            peak period                         and 202 discount
For all units during      1S sen     given to approved
the peak period                    textile industries
For all units during       7 sen
the off-peak period
Tariff F (B)                                           Tariff F
LOw-voltage    For the first 100,000    19 sen         Low-voltage      For all units             19 sen     No change except
mining tariff    units per month                       mining tariff                                         102 discount given
For each additional       21 sen
unit per month
Tariff F (A)                                           Tariff Fl
High-voltage   For each lilowatt of      M$12          Nedium-voltage  For each kilowatt of    ?M$12         No change except
mining tariff    maxinmi  demand per                   general mining    maximum demand per                  102 discount given
month                                tariff             month
Fot the first 2,000,000  17 sen                         For all units             16 sen
units per month
For each additional       16 sen
unit per month
Tariff F2
Medium-voltage  For each kilowatt of      M$17        No change except
peak/off-peak     maximum demand per                  102 discount given
mining tariff     month during the
peak period
For all units during      16 sen
the peak period
For all units during       8 sen
the off-peak period
Tariff C                                               Tariff G
Public and     For all units             83 sen        Public and      For all units              30 sen     No change
street light-                                          street light-
ing tariff                                             ing tariff



- 88 -                                                          ANNEX 22
MALAYSIA
ENgRGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEB's Investment Program: Calculation of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
(x$ million)
Investment costs                 Operations and maintenance costs
Gene-   Trans-   Distri-               Gene-   Trans-   Distri-                           Total       Sales          Net
Year    ration  mission  bution   Total    ration  mission  bution   Fuel    Total                 costs      revenues    benefits
1983      54.1                 -       54.1        -             -        -              -          54.1           -          -54.1
1984      Sl.9        -        -      51.9         -        -         -        -         -          51.9           -          -51.9
1985     87.3         -        -      87.3         -        -         -                  -          87.3            -         -87.3
1986    173.2       48.6    42.4    264.2          -        -         -        -         -         264.2            -        -264.2
1987    383.5    202.0   106.3    691.8            -        -         -                  -         691.8           -        -691.8
1988    272.8    348.1   286.3    907.2            -        -         -        -         -         907.2            -        -907.2
1989    270.4    385.2   392.8  1,047.6          26.4    .3.l      36.3    R5.6    158.6         1,206.2        450.4        -755.8
1990    246.6    283.3   355.8    885.5          48.4    19.2       67.2   160.4    295.7        1,181.2        835.4        -345.8
1991    292.7    240.0   568.4  1,101.1         48.9    19.2       67.2   162.0    297.3         1,398.4        835.4        -563.0
1992    280.0    286.4   584.1  1,150.0         48.9    19.2       67.2   163.7    298.9         1,449.4        835.4       -614.1
1993    162.0    164.5   324.0    650.0         77.0    30.2    105.9   260.3    473.4           1,123.9      1,315.7         191.8
1994     39.6    101.4   244.2    385.2         94.9    37.2       130.5   323.9    586.4          971.6      1,620.9         649.3
1995        -         -       -          -      98.6    38.6    135.6   340.1    613.0             613.0      1,685.1      1,072.1
1996        -         -        -         -      98.6    38.6    135.6   343.5    616.4             616.4      1,685.1      1,068.7
1997        -         -       -         -       98.6    38.6    135.6   347.0    619.99            619.9      1,685.1      1,065.2
1998        -         -        -         -      97.3    38.1    133.8   345.7    614.8             614.8      1,662.1      1,047.3
1999        -         -        -         -      93.3    36.5    128.3   334.7    592.7             592.7      1,593.5      1,000.7
2000        -         -        -         -       90.4    35.4    124.3   327.7    577.8            577.8      1,544.7         966.8
2001        -         -        -         -       90.2    35.3    124.1   330.3    580.0            580.0      1,541.6         961.6
2002        -         -        -         -       90.1    35.3    123.8   332.9    582.1            582.1      1,538.5         956.4
2003        -         -        -         -      87.2    34.2    119.9   325.6    566.9             566.9      1,489.7         922.9
2004        -         -        -         -       81.7    32.0    112.3   307.9    533.9            533,9      1,395.0         861.1
2005        -         -        -         -       78.8    30.9    108.3   300.2    518.2            518.2      1,346.2         828.1
2006        -         -        -         -       78.6    30.8    108.1   302.5    520.0            520.0      1,343.2         823.2
2007        -         -        -         -       78.4    30.7    107.9   304.8    521.8            521.8      1,340.1         818.3
200e        -         -        -         -       75.6    29.6    103.9   296.6    505.8            505.8      1,291.3         785.5
2009        -         -        -         -      66.5    26.0       91.4   263.5    477.4           477.4      1,135.7        688.3
2010        -         -        -         -       63.8    25.0       87.7   255.4    431.9          431.9      1,089.8         657.9
2011        -         -        -         -      63.8    25.0       87.7   257.9    434.4           434.4      1,089.8        655.4
2012        -         -        -         -      61.1    23.9       84.0   249.6    418.7           418.7      1,044.1        625.4
2013        -         -        -         -      47.7    18.7        65.6   196.8    328.8          328.8        815.1        486.3
2014        -         -        -         -       37.0    14.5       50.9   154.1    256.4          256.4        631.8         375.4
2015        -         -        -         -       37.0    14.5       50.9   155.6    257.9          257.9        631.8         373.9
2016        -         -        -         -      26.3    10.3        36.1   111.6    184.3          184.3        448.7        264.4
2017        -         -        -         -       15.5      6.1     21.4    66.7    109.7           109.7        265.5         155.8
2018        -         -        -         -       15.5      6.1     21.4    67.4    110.4           110.4        265.5         155.1
2019        -         -        -         -       15.5      6.1     21.4    68.0    111.0           111.0        265.5         154.4
2020



- 89 -                            ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components - Calculation of the lteirnal
Economic Rate of Return IERR
A. Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation, Improved Maintenance
and Conversion to Oil/Gas Firing
Rehabilitation of Plant and Improved Maintenance
Summary of Benefits
Type of improvement                      Power Station      Estimated benefit
Improved air heater sealing,                               Increased capacity
HP-4 heater replacement,                 Tuanku Jaafar           + 30 MW
improved condenser vacuum                    Prai                + 20 MW
Improved condenser vacuum, more                           Increased efficiency
effective preventive maintenance        Sultan Iskandar          + 0.5%
Improved air heater seals, reuse of
clean drains, improved burners/firing  Tuanku Jaafar             + 1.5%
system, improved condenser vacuum,            Prai               + 1.02
move effective preventive maintenance
Reduced down time due to on line                      Increased Plant Availibility
condenser cleaning, continuous           Tuanku Jaafar             + 5%
chlorination, reduced scheduled               Prai                 + 5%
maintenance period                      Sultan Iskandar            + 5%
Estimate of Savins
Capacity Related Savings
A 5% increase in plant availability represents about 5% (66 MW)
reduction in reserve capacity requirement. Together with a 50 MW increase in
plant output, the total capacity saving is 116 MW. Valued at US$360/kW this
amounts to US$41.8 million, or US$4.9 million per annum (amortized at 10% for
20 years), from 1992 to 2005 with salvage of US$27.2 million in 2005.



- 90 -                           ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 3
Energy Related Savings
Savings in fue1 cost due to increased thermal efficiency are com-
puted for the three stations, for their projected average annual plant factors
(Tuanku Jaafar 25%, Prai 10%, Sultan Iskandar 50%). It is assumed that Prai
povwc station will burn oil (price of oil assumed to be US$120/ton in 1990)
while Tuanku Jaafar and Sultan Iskandar power stations will burn gas from 1990
onwards (economic cost of gas assumed to be US$1.54/MHBTU).
Evaluation of IERR
With an investment of about US$20 million in plant rehabilitation
and maintenance management system, the cost and benefit streams are as under:
Invest-            Generation                Fuel cost savings      Capacity
ments    Tuanku               Sultan   Tuanku             Sultan     cost       Net
(US$     Jaafar      Prai   Iskandar  Jaafar   Prai   Iskandar   savings  benefit
Year     million)  -           GWh -----------   --------------- US$ million ---------------
1987        2.0          -          -       -        -        -        -         -         -2.0
1988        6.0          -          -       -        -        -        -         -         -6.0
1989        6.0          -          -       -        -        -        -         -         -6.0
1990        6.0      1,300        400   1,050       0.75    0.38      0.27       -         -4.6
1991         -       1,300        400   1,050       0.75    0.38      0.27       -         +1.4
1992-2004    -       1,300        400   1,050       0.75    0.38      0.27      4.9        +6.3
2005         -       1,300        400   1,050       0.75    0.38      0.27   -22.3        -20.9
IERR = 19.8%
Sensitivity: For 25% reduction in either generation or in fuel cost, IERR = 18.4%
For 20% increase in capital cost, IERR = 16.2%
Conversion from Oil to Oil/Gas Firing
Against an estimated expenditure of about US$10.5 million for the
conversion of 600 MW of thermal plant at Tuanku Jaafar from oil to oil/gas
firing, the net annual fuel saving by burning natural gas (economic cost
US$1.54/MMBTU or USg 1.55 per kWh at 33% efficiency) instead of fuel oil
(price US$120/ton or US/ 3.0/kWh at 33% efficiency) ia estimated at US$17.3
million, at an annual generation level of 1,300 GWh. The internal economic
rate of return for conversion from oil to gas firing is very high, the payback
period being less than one year.



- 91 -                             ANNEX 23
Page 3 of 3
B. Transmission Lines and Sul.stations for Supply
to Kuala Lumpur
r( 3s mil-lIion)
Bulk /c
Invest-           energy
ments     O&M   supply       Total      Sales     Revenues    Net
Year           /a        /b    cost         cost      GWh           /d     benefit
1987              9      -         -           9           -         -       -9.0
1988             52      -         -          52           -         -      -52.0
1989            114     2.5       6.5       123.0        130        9.9   -113.1
1990             36     2.5      26.7        65.2        535       40.7    -24.5
1991             10     2.5      30.2        42.7        605       46.0       3.3
1992             10     5.0      43.0        58.0        860       65.4       7.4
1993             10     5.0      50.5        65.0     1,010        76.8      11.8
1994             10     5.0      60.5        75.5     1,210        92.0      16.5
1995             10     5.0      74.0        89.0     1,480       112.5      23.5
1996             10     5.0      90.0       105.0     1,800       136.8      31.8
1997             10     5.0    111.2        126.2     2,225       169.1      42.9
1998              5     5.0    124.0        134.0     2,480       188.5      54.5
1999              5     5.0    131.0        141.0     2,620       199.1      58.1
2000              5     5.0    133.8        143.8     2,675       203.3      59.5
2001              5     5.0    137.2        147.2     2,745       208.6      61.4
2002-2015         5     5.0    140.5        150.5     2,810       213.6      63.1
IERR   13.9%
/a  Investments after 1990 allow for distribution system growth.
Th  O&M cost assumed as approximately 2.5% of capital cost.
7i Bulk energy supply cost based on long-run marginal cost of US 5/kWh at
substation MV bus.
/d  Revenues based on US7.6/kWh (based on average revenue of Mc 20.3/kWh less
7.5% for distribution l3sses).
Sensitivity: For 20% increase in project capital cost, IERR = 12.2%
For 20% reductior in demand, IERR = 11.0%
For 2 years delays in project implementation, IERR = ll.n%



- 92 -
ANNEX 24
Page I of 3
MALAYSIA
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Distribution System Planning-Consultancy St4dy
Terms of Reference
8cope
1.        To develop and consolidate in-house capabilities to deal -'ith
distribution system planning, implementation and operation.
2-.       The study shall:
(a) develop appropriate distribution planning methodology or
methodologies to be used as common approach in distribution system
planning;
(b) examine current methods of distribution project planning and
implementation and recommend suitable alternative methods to achieve
earlier completion dates and reduced project costs;
(c) examine current design and construction standards, operational and
maintenance procedures, including standing instructions and
circulars, and recommend alternative procedures to achieve greater
efficiencies;
(d) develop methodology for and evaluate distribution system losses and
give recommendations on strategy for loss reduction; and
(e) document the methodologies subsequently in a manual or manuals on
"Distribution System Planning, Implementation and Operation."
The study will be divided into three main segments, viz., planning,
implementation and operation.
3.        Distribution Planning Methodology.
(a) The consultant shall examine in-house reports on distribution
planning and current methodologies employed in the planning process
for microarea load forecasting, planning moJels for least-cost
planning of distributicn systems, and comprehensiveness of the whole
planning process.
(b) The consultant shall evaluate the adequacy of the work.
(c) Taking note of current state-of-the-art methodologies elsewhere in
the world, the consultant shall indentify shortfalls in the current



- 93 -
ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 3
methodology and propose appropriate methodology for future use in
diistribution systems development studies.
In this context, emphasis should be givea to at least the
following: (i) system security, (ii) reduction of distribution
losses, and (iii) computer-aided techniques.
(d) The consultant shall carry out a sample illustrative case study on
an actual planning project which shall be identified and agreed to
during the course of the study. Key problem areas such as data
acquisition and availability shall be highlighted and solutions
typified.
(e)  The consultant shall also review the present orgatization and
planning capability of the distribution departments. Key
institutional/organizational issues shall be identified ar.d
highlighted. Appropriate measures to overcome the problems shall be
recommended.
(f) The consultant shall analyze the training requirement of the staff
of the distribution departments and recommend suitable training
programs to overcome immediate deficiencies.
4.        Distribution Project Planning and Implementation.
(a) The consultant, together with NEB engineers, shall examine the
currsnt methods employed in distribution project planning and
implementation and recommend an appropriate method to improve the
project uianapement capability with the principal objectives of
achieving earlier completion dates and reducing project costs.
Focus shall be given to at least the following: (i) project
coordination, (ii) use of standardized components, (iii) compact
designs, and (iv) budgetary and inventory control.
(b) The consultant is expected to carry out sufficient investigative
field work to generate information and data to formulate the
alternative method(s). The investigative work shall include
sampling of procedures being followed in different parts of the
country.
5.        Distribution System Operation add Maintenance.
(a) The consultant, together with NEB engineers, shall examine the
current modus operandi in distribution system operation and
maintenance. Areas covered shall include, but not be limited to,
the following: ti) load management, (ii) operational flexibility,
(iii) contingency measures, (iv) preventive maintenance, (v)
safety/competency aspects, (vi) efficiency of fault rectification,
and (vii) data and information management.



- 94 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 3
(b) The consultant shall assess in-house standing instructions and
circulars to verify their validity, or otherwise, in light of the
findings of the study; arpropriate amendments shall be recommended.
6.        Conduct of the Study/Technology Transfer.
(a) It is intended that these studies will be used constructively by NEB
as a basis for the development and extension of in-house
capabilities in distribution planning, operation and maintenance.
It is envisaged that the bulk of the study will be conducted at the
offices of NEB in Malaysia, and only a minimal, if at all, may De
carried out at the home office of the consultant. Facilities will
be made available by NEB to the consultant wherever possible for the
conduct of the study. To this extent, the consultant shall detail
out in the proposal the facilities required. Every effort shall oe
made to maximize the participation of NEB engineers in the project,
through direc. involvement in the studies, briefings and progress
meetings or the holding of short informel seminars and workshops
where deemed appropriate. The consultant shall indicate how it
would achieve maximum participation of WEB engineers.
(b) Computer Software
WEB has a fairly comprehensive catalog of software for systems
development studies, and additional software is being acquired.
Howver, there is no software dedicated to distribution.
The consultant may use NEB's existing software for the study, if
appropriate. It is expected, however, that the consultant will use
an entirely different set of software.
All software used shall be handed over to NEB at the end of the
study. Furthermore, the consultant shall ensure that the software
has been modified for application on Prime 9750 machine with Primos
operating system. The consultant shall ensure LLN engineers who
will be taking over the software have been thoroughly trained in its
use.
(c) Stages of Work
The consultant is expected to divide the work in a number of stages
and submit interim reports which will be discussed with NEB. The
following stages and/or sequences are envisaged: (i) assessment of
current methodologies in distribution pianning, project implementa-
tion and system operation and maintenance; (ii) evolution of new
methodologies in the above fields; (iii) demonstration of the new
methodologies by application on actual projects; and (iv) prepara-
tion of the Distribution Manual.



ANNEX 25
MALAYSIA
ENFRGY EFFICIENCY AND PLANT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.   Project Papers -- Power Station Plant Improvements/Mofidications -- NEB.
2.   Project Paper -- Computerized Maintenance Management System for Power
Stations -- NEB.
3.   Project Papers -- Power Supply to Kuala Lumpur
4.   The Improvement of Plant and Plant Management-Report, Tokyo Electric
Power Services Co Ltd -- August 1983.
5.   Review of Proposal to Convert Connaught Bridge Combustion Turbines for
Combined Cycle Operation -- NEB.
6.   Project Papers -- Proposal to Set Up New Distribution Control Centers and
to Upgrade the Facilities at the National Load Dispatch Center -- NEB.



IBRD 20157
16i0                           I&*20                          420                             .0
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
T H A I LAN D                                                                         POWER GRID
UNNOS    I'mite
tEi5llifa  uCDCTlI  P r PPOJECTRANS MIS04' LINS
275 kV
j      juk~t,lil  Ketr-   0t.                                                                 - ~ -       ~             12123kV
POWER STATIONS
*  ~~~~~~~              N~~~ydto
^Ajarourr                                                                                                    Su  D SUBSTATIONS
SOClk i   g f O A  H                                     f                                        -  -   STATE BOUNDARIES               6-
Gm& ~   ~     ~      r Chmpd, K E                                                          - A    IllENUATIONALSOUNVARIES
Guru4Jiin,=                                      _   T LLsh
z 4\_  <    >  M      __   w  4~~~-,Giong
Kt                           0 ,,rVIIOJ       4        'p
9tnWi Poun       i           v-,                                       >                                      MILES
(          AKUUKW                  0~~K               2,0  40 So l    f
= GI                                 m g                                                                   KILOWTI111r
PINANlGi     d4r                                                                      \ w Gong- 4   K"tn
Pf ut R   ,       Kmrn
KK rnuming    a s         ^~~~~~~~ f i A  hV T A  h                       81"iumS
60 ~~~~~~~~~~~uMust~    rRENGGANY
c ~     ~       ~       P n-g                                                                  lr.n*#.      P
r  VIOTNMJo,
LurnutyWh Ku l^L Up s                                                         Ay           KrPn~ K
-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rj
SEL ANGO0R              ?\/  
/              I-                                                                     PwitiunA/g  or , {Tg. AmIa
\r$u.GAPOR~  RSt INDONEP O
Sub ngJ59y         &i-E.  ri/\
3p ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ui  m*     /     p.              snnf<dwbuitran                                                           3
INDONESIA  K4J.WrAM  Port KaiNGhPhR30.
Ifts"ft"me                              connw it.t    ^            .    N1EG   P I
_*    n*_                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.K.S.W9 l  ,    ,Sernmben  I  
Tunnku Jah                 C9      *n 
Su          0010WCRATIC                                              om 8G VWu  __- 
Wlmk         KAIE JUCs K                       
f                 " VIET NAMfi                                                                     L 
J   :                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES  -20                r             ,     w
7s;                  ssU"EI .                                                                      <\&,rTBRUNEI
-rSOAPR    \      u -                   I                                                       ctn           SF.lIN r '   T.
SLNTISA        WOrNA          9,1 MATA                            1020                           igy/   lGPo%*
SEPTEMBER 19l86



