Of IAL             ~
ENT,L ti         Or.-I
Letter of Development Policy
Jakarta, October 5  2012
NO. S- 2 95/M.EKON/ 10/20 12
No. S-7 3 3/MK.08/2012
Mr. James Yong Kim
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Kim,
On behalf of the Government of Indonesia, we would like to express our gratitude for the long
term support that the World Bank has provided as a development partner within the multilateral
economic and financial framework. We are hereby writing, on behalf of the Government of
Indonesia to request the World Bank support through three lending operations:
*  The Institutional, Tax Administration, Social and Investment Development PclicT
Loa,i (INSTANSI DPL) for USD 300 million.
*  The Financial Sector and Investment Climate Reform    and Modernization
Development Policy Loan (FIRMDPL) for USD 100 million.
*  The Connectivity Development Policy Loan for USD 100 million.
These three operations together form an important package of support to the Government that
will help it achieve its medium term economic development and poverty reduction goals for
Indonesia. Each of the development policy loans addresses strategic areas of reform including
public financial management, poverty alleviation, financial sector development, investment
climate, and connectivity. The three operations are fully aligned with the priority elements of our
development agenda, as we have outlined in Indonesia's National Medium-Term Development
Plan (RPJMN) 2010-2014, the Master Plan for Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesia's
Economic Development 2011-2025 (MP3EI), as well as the Annual Government Action Plans
(RKP), ministry/agency work programs, and reform packages. As you are aware, Indonesia has
made important progress over the past decade in many areas of social and economic
development and poverty reduction. However, continued implementation of its earnest reform
agenda is essential if it is to meet the goals in terms of sustainable and inclusive growth. This
Letter of Development Policy outlines the Government's recent progress implementing its
reform program and its medium term agenda in the areas supported by the loans.


﻿Indonesia has established a good track record in advancing key policy and institutional reforms.
The Government intends to continue the reforms, and anticipates that the proposed program
lending overall will continue to support these efforts. The financial support provided for these
three DPLs will complement and build upon the DPLs 1-8 supported from 2003-2011 and the
USD 2.0 billion in financing provided by the World Bank through the Program for Economic
Resilience, Investment and Social Assistance (PERISAI) Development Policy Loan with
Deferred Drawdown Option in May 2012. Since May, other development partners including the
Government of Japan, Australia, and the Asian Development Bank have also committed
additional financing to PERISAI, which aims to enhance the Government's preparedness to
address the potential adverse impact of ongoing volatility in financial markets on Government's
ability to meet its gross fiscal financing needs from markets. This facility is expected to help
ensure that Indonesia can continue with its earnest development and reform agenda even in the
event of a crisis.
Output growth in Indonesia has been consistent throughout the last decade, broad based and
strong, as well as relatively crisis resistant, bouncing back to pre-crisis levels since 2008-9. This
mainly reflects increasing private sector investment and strong domestic consumption. Through
its fiscal policy stance and policy reform agenda, the Government also made efforts to support
growth in the face of a weaker, and uncertain, international environment, in conjunction with
Bank Indonesia's supportive monetary policy.
Indonesia also enjoys low fiscal deficits, supported by the Government efforts to increase
revenue and contain our expenditures, and we have concurrently been able to reduce our external
imbalances and improve investor sentiment. In the future, we are committed to furthering our
efforts to enhance our crisis preparedness and reduce any potential financial market volatility in
the face of ongoing global economic turmoil, and in parallel, boost medium term growth.
Enhancing the quality of public spending for poverty reduction and service delivery
The Government remains committed to accelerating the pace of poverty reduction. Since the
2009 elections, there has been renewed commitment by the Government to intensify policy
reforms that support poverty reduction and improve the effectiveness of national poverty
reduction programs. The RPJMN 2010-2014 highlights the Government's aim to lower the
poverty rate to 8-10 percent by 2014 under the President's triple-track development strategy
(pro-growth, pro-jobs and pro-poor) that will reduce poverty by strengthening economic growth,
stimulating job creation, and deepening investments in our poverty reduction strategy. The latter
include further improvements in the targeting and monitoring of poverty alleviation programs
and measurement of poverty, to ensure that these programs reach the intended beneficiaries and
to better inform policy choices going forward.
We also recognize that better targeted allocations of public funds toward development priorities
and more efficient, transparent and accountable spending are essential to further improving
public service delivery and the overall quality of spending. Over the past decade, we have made
significant progress in the way public finances are managed and in increasing transparency and
independent oversight. Changes in the legal and regulatory framework are now largely complete,
expenditure controls have been strengthened within a unified budget, government accounting


﻿standards have been formally established and are largely being adhered to in the production of
comprehensive annual financial statements, while the capacity of the internal and external audit
functions continues to grow. A new public Financial Management Information System (SPAN),
which should streamline budget execution and provide more timely and robust information for
budget management at all levels of government, is expected to be rolled out in 2013. The reform
momentum has also gradually shifted toward the implementation of more performance orientated
practices with the introduction of the Medium-Term Expenditure framework (MTEF),
Performance-Based Budgeting (PBB), and results-based monitoring.
Developing a sound, efficient and inclusive financial sector
In recent years, the Government has made important progress in terms of achieving stability in
the financial sector. This has been demonstrated by improved soundness indicators of the
banking sector in particular, and the relatively modest impact to date of both the global financial
market instability since 2008 and ongoing crisis in the Eurozone. The Government has responded
proactively to such global developments, identifying and implementing key measures to maintain
the stability of the financial sector and to reduce volatility in our financial markets. For instance,
the Government has established a bond stabilization framework that aims to stabilize the
government bond market in the case of a sudden reversal in capital flows or shock. This
mechanism includes a number of potential actions to stabilize government bond market in the
case of crisis.
In addition to our efforts noted above, we plan to continue our longer term reforms to promote
financial sector stability, by pursuing reform of the underlying legal and regulatory framework.
Reinforcing the Government's commitment to promote the financial stability, in October 2011,
the Indonesian Parliament passed the new Financial Services Authority Law (the "OJK Law"),
which provides the legal basis for the establishment of a new consolidated financial sector
supervisory authority. Importantly, in the medium and longer term this law provides us with an
opportunity to further strengthen the quality of financial sector supervision in Indonesia. In this
way, the new law establishes a legal basis for improved coordination in monitoring financial
sector stability through the Financial Sector Stability Coordination Forum. To this end, we are
supporting efforts to improve crisis prevention and management arrangements. This has included
development of the National Crisis Management Protocol, and agreement on information sharing
and coordination arrangements between the Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia, and Indonesia
Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS).
The current global economic environment reinforces the importance for Indonesia financial
sector authorities to continue to implement its reform agenda related to financial sector
diversification and inclusion. This includes the pursuit of deeper reforms of the financial sector
to enhance efficiency and expand access to services for the poor and underserved. In the medium
term, this will imply measures to promote the development of non-bank financial institutions,
including capital markets and insurance sector. Specific reform challenges and priority measures
are outlined in the Bapepam-LK Capital Market and NBFI Master Plan 2010-2014, which is
currently under implementation. The Government's reform program will also include taking
important steps to implement the National Strategy for Financial Inclusion in order to enhance
the prospects of the poor engaging in Indonesia's financial system and accessing a wide range of


﻿saving, credit, and insurance products. The development of a sound, deep, and efficient financial
sector in Indonesia is required to promote medium term job creation, enterprise development,
and poverty reduction.
Supporting improvements in the investment climate
The Government has recently embarked on a wide range of prudent regulatory reforms in order
to improve competitiveness and encourage investment in Indonesia. As a result of these
measures, a number of perception-based and objective indicators of the investment climate
improved, and this has been reflected in increasing investment flows. In 2010, Indonesia
emerged from the recent financial crisis of 2008-2009 with FDI inflows at over USD 13 billion,
and further enjoyed substantially increased FDI levels of 19.2 billion in 2011.
Building on these efforts, we plan to deepen our focus on providing a positive investment climate
that enables business to grow and will work with us towards achieving our goal to boost
Indonesia's economic growth to 7-9 percent during the coming decades, as outlined in our
Master Plan for the Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesia's Economic Development 2011-
2025. Under this framework, we recognize that a healthy business climate increases investment
and leads to stronger job-generating growth. Therefore we plan to continue reform in areas such
as business licensing and regulatory reform, for example by establishing a regulatory review
committee specifically supporting MP3EI. As part of the efforts to improve the business
environment, we are also focusing on commercial dispute resolution, and de-Veloping the legal
framework to streamline current procedures and decrease delays in small claims resolution
Looking forward, we plan to work together with all parties, including both central and local
government, on debottlenecking, regulations, incentives and the acceleration of infrastructure
development needed by all stakeholders in Indonesia's growth.
Improving national connectivity
The government realizes that addressing challenges in connectivity is an important for Indonesia
to optimize its growth potentials and strengthen inclusive growth. Bottlenecks in connectivity
have been identified as a major development constraint that Indonesia needs to address, if it
wishes to see rapid economic transformation. Poor domestic connectivity has increased domestic
logistics cost, hinder integration in domestic economy, undermine manufacturing
competitiveness and impose barriers for inclusive growth in lagging regions in Indonesia.
Problems in international connectivity also impede Indonesia's potential to benefit fully from
integration with the global market.
Addressing connectivity challenges is a cross-cutting issue and integral part in Indonesia's Five-
Year National Strategic Plan RPJMN 2010-2014 and the Master Plan for Acceleration and
Expansion of Indonesia's Economic Development 2011-2025 (MP3EI) that the Government is
committed to implement. MP3EI outlines the importance the Government places on
strengthening national connectivity, with the Master Plan calling for efforts to reinforce, connect
and complement the six regional corridors of growth in particular.


﻿In recent years, the Government has also made significant policy and institutional reform efforts
to address connectivity challenges. The Government introduced reforms aimed at improving
policy coordination surrounding connectivity, improving domestic logistics efficiency,
facilitating investment in public infrastructure projects, improving trade facilitation and
strengthening inclusive development. We introduced a National Logistics Blueprint that will
guide reforms in logistics and established the mechanism for linking these reforms with
implementation of the MP3EI. Recently, we issued an implementing regulation for the new Land
Acquisition Law that would help facilitate investment projects that enhance national
connectivity The Government has also introduced reforms to strengthen Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) connection, particularly for Eastern Indonesia, On
international connectivity, we continue to undertake reforms surrounding the Indonesian
National Single Window (INSW) as a mechanism to better facilitate international trade.
We therefore plan to focus our efforts going forward on a reform program that is aimed at
reducing domestic logistics costs and strengthen inclusive development, including efforts to
strengthen national coordination and regulation, and connectivity on an intra-island, inter-island
and international level.
Conclusion
In conclusion, Indonesia continues to make solid progress in the areas to be supported by the
DPL program lending, specifically towards enhancing the quality of public spending for poverty
reduction and service delivery, developing a sound, efficient and inclusive financial sector,
supporting improvements in the investment climate, and improving national connectivity. We
therefore appreciate your positive response to our request for support and look forward to
working with you in the context of the INSTANSI, FIRM, and Connectivity DPLs.
Minister o Finance                        Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs
Republic f Ind  esia                       Republic of Indonesia
Agus D.W Martowardojo                     M. Hatta Rajasa


