Docunment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC IAL LUSE ONLY
Report No. 14087-ET
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1520-ET)
MARCH 16, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Ethiopian Birr. (Br.)
US$ 1.00        = Br. 6.20
US$ 1.398690    - SDR 1.00
WEIGHTS AIND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government July 7 - June 6
IDA        July I - June 30
ABBRFVIAATIOfNS ,Ni)q ACRONYMS
AAU          Addis Ababa University
APC          Awraja Pedagogical Center
CHE          Commission for Higher Education
CESD         Center for Education Staff Development
DEMM         Department of Educational Mass Media
EICMA        Educational Institutes Construction and Maintenance Agency
EMPDA        Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
ERRP         Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program
HEMID        Higher Education Main Department
HSS          Higher Secondary School
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICDR         Institute for Curriculum Development and Research
IDA          International Development Association
JCC          Junior College of Commerce
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LSS          Lower Secondary School
MOE          Ministry of Education
NCDC         National CurricUlum D)evelopment C'enter
PMO          Project Management Office
PS           Primary School
PTTTC        Productive Technology Teacher Tl-aining College
SCMS         School Construction and Maintenance Service
SPPMS        Sequential Procurement Processing and Monitoring Schedule
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TTI          Teacher Training Institute
UPE          Universal Primary Education
This Document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma' not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
Evaluation Summary
I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                            ii
A.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES                  1...................................... 
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...................................... 2
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................... 4
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                 ...................................... 6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................                               7
F.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................                         7
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .               .....................................  8
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................... 9
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................           10
II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                               14
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .    15
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation    .16
Table 5B: Number of Primary Schools Completed by Region (1986-1994)       21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation... 22
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project.. 23
Table 8A: The Project Costs .24
Table 8B: Project Financing .24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants...   26
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ...28
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs & Missions                        29
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire .31
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR         ..35
C. Map                                   ....                            . 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 1520-ET)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sixth Education
Project in Ethiopia, for which Credit 1520-ET in the amount of SDR 67.3 million,
equivalent to US$ 70.0 million at the prevailing exchange rate, was approved on
September 11, 1984.
The project closed on March 31, 1994, compared to the original closing date of
June 30, 1990. The total disbursement was SDR 50.8 million or equivalent to US$ 68.8
million. The last disbursement took place on October 4, 1994. The undisbursed balance
of SDR 16.5 million or equivalent to US$ 24.5 million at present exchange rate was
canceled, as of closing of the credit on October 31, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Mario Cecere, Consultant. It was reviewed further and
updated by Abdun Noor, Divisional Portfolio Manager of the Population and Human
Resources Division, Eastern Africa Department. The borrower provided comments that
are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in March 1994. The borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by: (a) preparing its own evaluation report of the project
execution and initial preparation (Study of May 1994); and (b) the additional information
provided in October and December of 1994 on the execution of project components. An
implementation completion mission comprising of Messrs. Mario Cecere, Abdun Noor,
Frederick Walker, and Ms. Laura Frigenti visited Ethiopia in June 1994. Follow-up
discussions took place in November 1994 with the borrower and Abdun Noor.
The ICR is based on materials in the project files, reports prepared by the
borrower, field visits by the members of the completion mission to selected regions during
the June 1994 mission, and extensive discussions with staff of the borrower and the Bank
who were involved with the project.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)  The Association has made major contributions to the development of education in
Ethiopia, through policy formation, institution building, and overall system development.
By 1985, when the project became effective, IDA had provided support to five education
projects.
Project Objectives
(ii)  Broad project objectives essentially were: to improve quality and equity of the
education system, and to expand educational opportunities particularly at the primary and
secondary school levels. The project consisted of three large components each aiming at
specific educational objectives: a) a direct educational services component --to include
450 new primary schools, 30 new lower secondary schools (LSS), and an increased
teacher training capability-- aimed at expanding the capacity, effectiveness and
geographical equity of primary and lower secondary schools, together with the training of
teachers for those schools; b) a quality improving component emphasizing improvement of
the quality of educational services through: curriculum development, staff training and
supervision through 10 new Awraja Pedagogical Centers (APC), and mass media
applications through provision of 11 new radio transmitters; and c) a support service
component to increase operational effectiveness by strengthening essential support
services of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and its implementation agencies. Project
objectives were consistent with the ten-year development plan.
Implementation Experience and Results
(iii)  Overall the project outcome is satisfactory. Teacher training has been reinforced
and is already contributing to an improved quality of education. The strengthened APC
system will provide more efficient schools supervision and a better evaluation of teacher
training programs. The expansion of the Junior College of Commerce (JCC) has reduced
overcrowding and improved the quality of training. The new MOE staff training facilities
are already fully utilized and, to-date, more than 600 professional and administrative staff
of the Ministry have already been trained in a variety of courses and seminars. The 402
primary schools and 23 junior secondary schools built under the project in the remote
areas will contribute to an increase in the enrollment in the disadvantaged regions.
(iv)   Several elements indicate that the project is likely to be sustainable, despite serious
budgetary constraints Ethiopia has faced in financing education. The salaries of the



ii
teachers have been increased by about thirty percent in FY94/95, and their pay scale is
now one-step ahead of other civil servants. Other policy developments will have a
positive impact on the sector as a whole, and will favor the sustainability of the project:
the delegation of power and responsibilities to manage education to regional governments,
the New Education Policy that emphasizes cost-sharing and cost-recovery particularly at
higher levels of education, and the change from the present 6-2-4 to the 8-2-2 grade
system, that will slow progression into lower secondary, allowing more resources to go to
improve quality at the secondary levels. A risk in terms of sustainability could be the
Productive Technology Teacher Training College (PTTTC) in Nazareth, because it will
generate high recurrent expenses. The recent cost-recovery policy should reduce such a
risk.
(v)   The estimated costs of the project was US$ 109.6 million. The IDA credit of SDR
67.3 million, equivalent to US$ 70.0 million, was expected to finance 72 percent of total
project cost, net of taxes. The disbursements on the original project components was US$
64.9 million, representing 93 percent of the initial dollar amount of the credit. Due to
changes to the value of SDR against US dollars, the proceeds of the credit increased to
US$ 93.3 million by 1993. Out of the additional proceeds of about US$ 23.3 million, the
IDA concurred to earmark US$ 15.0 million to finance the education components of the
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (ERRP, Cr. 2309-ET). However, the
disbursements for ERRP under Cr. 1520-ET was US$ 3.9 million. The total disbursement
of the credit is US$ 68.8 million, which is equivalent to SDR 50.8 million. The
undisbursed balance of the credit is SDR 16.5 million, equivalent to US$ 24.5 million,
which was canceled.
(vi)  While most of the components of the project were closed on June 30, 1993, after
three postponements from the original closing date of June 30, 1990, the ERRP
component was closed on March 31, 1994. Project implementation was adversely
affected by a number of factors (paras. 12-15). Some were beyond Government control:
the civil war and the consequent lack of security at project sites; the drought; the evolving
of the internal political situation; the loss of procured material at Assab during the unrest
of May 1991. Other factors were subject to Government control: delays in provision of
counterpart funds; cumbersome procurement procedures; lack of coordination and
government control of the many government implementing agencies; failure to strengthen
the Project Management Office (PMO) as the complexity of implementation required; lack
of encouragement to private construction firms and consequently relegation of contract
awards to state enterprises.
(vii)  Bank performance during identification was satisfactory. Objectives were
consistent with the Government's education policy, and were in line with the Bank's
education strategy for the country. Bank performance was less satisfactory at project
appraisal, as it failed to properly evaluate the many problems inherent to the project
complexity, and the demanding task for the implementation office. Supervision was
regularly conducted, though the amount of supervision was low during the crucial period



iv
1985-88, with one supervision each year, and where many areas in the region could not be
visited due to civil disturbances.
(viii)  The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The
PMO was helpful in providing assistance to the preparation and appraisal teams, and the
Government showed its commitment to the project. Borrower performance during the
implementation stage could be divided into two distinct periods: the first five years (1985-
90), and the last 3 years (1990-93) of project implementation. After five years from
effectiveness, only about 30 percent of the credit had been disbursed; in the following
years, performance improved significantly.
(ix)   The PMO, during the first five years of project implementation, suffered from
shortage of staff, especially accountants, lack of local funds and appropriate
transportation, and from the Government's rigid application of inefficient procurement
procedures and import regulations. PMO's performance in project supervision was not
always adequate to meet the implementation requirements. In particular, it failed to
closely monitor the physical implementation of 450 primary schools. Of the 402 primary
schools completed by the closing date of the project, PMO had only a limited knowledge
of the sites, state of completion at each site and current state of operation. It also
conducted inadequate monitoring of the Curriculum Development component.
(x)   The project, up to the time of preparation of the ICR, had only partially achieved its
major equity and quality objectives. The project had a target of achieving completion of
450 primary schools and 30 lower secondary schools in remote and disadvantaged regions.
The project was able to complete 402 primary schools and 23 lower secondary schools,
which are about 90 percent and 77 percent of the respective targets. This was due to a
variety of causes: the ongoing war and poor security in the rural areas; the country's
difficult economic and financial situation; the complexity of the project; and its unrealistic
implementation schedule. Furthermore, inefficient procurement procedures further
hampered project implementation; while adequate monitoring was not done by the
Borrower's implementation agencies and by the Association.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
(xi)   Over all, the project outcome is quite satisfactory. The project has made a
difference in Ethiopia for the development of its institutions, on enhancing the quality of
its educational services, on sound formulation of its policies, and on expanding its
enrollment for primary and secondary education. But its major positive impact is on
institutional development, partly because of a large number of educational institutions the
project has helped to establish or reinforce over the period.
(xii)  The Association plans to continue to monitor the performance of the project
within the framework of the recent education policy that has decentralized management
and financial responsibilities to the regional governments. The following key indicators
for project monitoring will be adopted:



v
*   regional governments participation in budget allocation to education;
*   mechanisms of cost-recovery;
*   recurrent and unit costs generated by the PTTTC at Nazareth;
*   number of trained teachers employed at project schools;
*   enrollment ratios to monitor geographical and gender equity;
*   utilization factor at the teacher training institutions;
*   enrollment and output at the teacher training institutions;
*   availability of new textbooks to pupils;
*   maintenance of the new institutions.
(xiii)  The lessons learned from the implementation of this project are summarized
below:
* Site Selection. The objective of "Geographic Equity" must be addressed
realistically. Projects with several hundred construction sites should carefully
investigate construction feasibility during appraisal, and reach an agreed
number of accessible locations.
* Time Horizons for Civil Works. The time projected for physical
construction should be realistic, and should take into account factors such as
weather, natural calamities and condition of infrastructure.
* Counterpart Funds. The Government's financial obligations and the
deterioration of the economy should be properly evaluated.
* Procurement and Import Regulations. Should be reviewed at appraisal to
see if these would be a serious handicap for the project.
3 Disbursement. The disbursement schedule, as specified in the SAR, proved to
be unrealistic. It was overly ambitious and not in line with the historical
country profile.
* Coordination of Responsibilities. Many government agencies were involved
in different areas, with various degrees of responsibility, leading to delays in
project execution.
* Risks. Risks associated with the war were overlooked.
* Supervision and Monitoring. Bank's direct site supervision and
implementation process monitoring were not done effectively.



I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTWVES
1.  In the mid-'80s when the project was approved, the regional participation rates for
the primary level school-age group showed substantial disparities, ranging from 22 percent
in Tigray to 86 percent in Wellega, and 95 percent in Addis Ababa. Furthermore, the
expanding school system had over-loaded the poor physical facilities in rural areas, while
at the national level the class size had reached an average 63, and unqualified primary
teachers numbered more than 30 percent. At the same time, despite an ongoing process of
major curriculum revisions, the instructional process at every level of the education system
was assessed as not responsive to the overall country's development needs.
2.  The broad objectives of the project essentially were: to improve quality and equity of
the education system, and to expand educational opportunities particularly at the primary
and secondary school levels. The project consisted of three large components, each
aiming at specific educational objectives:
(a)  A direct education component aimed at expanding the capacity, and
geographical equity of primary and lower secondary schools, together with the
training of teachers for those schools, through: the construction of 450 new
primary schools, to increase enrollment capacity by about 158,000; 30 new
lower secondary schools, to increase enrollment capacity by about 24,000
students; the construction of a new technology teacher training college with a
total capacity of 800 at Nazareth; improvement to a college of teacher
education; and, rehabilitation of a junior college of commerce;
(b)  A quality improving component emphasizing improvement of the quality of
educational services through curriculum development, staff training and
supervision, and mass media applications, including: 10 APCs, a training center
for the Ministry of Education staff, assistance to curriculum development, and
the provision of 11 transmitters for education broadcasting; and,
(c)  A support service component to increase operational effectiveness by
strengthening essential support services through planning and development for
the PMO and MOE. The project also included provision for school equipment,
water supply, a new chalk production unit, vehicles, and technical assistance
and fellowships.
3.  The project objectives were fully consistent with the education policies and
strategies of the ten-year plan, which included Universal Primary Education (UPE) to be
achieved by the beginning of the next century, the creation of conditions of geographic
and gender equity in access to educational services, the improvement of quality through
appropriate teacher qualification, especially for science teaching, and, improvement of
curricula, adapting them to the country's needs. Objectives were also in line with the
Bank's strategy for the education sector in Ethiopia, which in turn was the result of a long



2
association and dialogue, which had been established and maintained through the years
with the country.
4.  The project was demanding on the Borrower, particularly on the implementation
unit. Though clearly structured and well designed, the project included complex and
numerous procurement activities, and the implementation of civil works dispersed in the
territory. The three major components had in total over 20 sub-components, with a large
number of items, all requiring procurement of some kind, and including hundreds of
construction sites (450 sites for the primary schools) scattered all over the country. Most
schools were located in very remote and scarcely accessible areas, as they were meant to
serve the most disadvantaged populations. The Borrower, and in particular PMO had
earlier been proven to be capable to cope with complex projects. However,
implementation of the project was carried out during the unrest the country was
experiencing with the civil war and the deterioration of the economy. The construction of
schools and thcir supervision by the PMO encountered serious communication and
security problems. Several project locations had to be resited. The Bank did not act
promptly to tackle the emerging situation with adequate measures.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.  Most of the project components have been completed and some have started
operating:
(a) The new college of technology in Nazareth started operating in the year
1993/94. Once fully operational it will produce 300 technical and vocational
teachers annually, contributing to the development of necessary manpower.
(b) The new teachers training college at Assella will increase the annual output of
trained teachers by 600, improving the quality of primary education in the
region.
(c) The expansion of Kotobe College of Teacher Education will improve the
quality of secondary school teachers, and reduce their shortage by training an
additional 200 teachers annually.
(d)  The rehabilitation and extension of the Junior College of Commerce has
already contributed to alleviate overcrowding, while provision of equipment
and library facilities will improve quality.
(e) The creation of 20 APCs, compared to 10 APCs planned during appraisal, will
contribute to improve quality in primary education through better school
supervision, evaluation of teacher training programs, and use of teaching aids.
(f) The mass media component has expanded ten fold in its capacity for education
broadcasting. With the renovation of studio buildings still being undertaken it
will contribute to an increase in the quality of educational broadcasting.



3
6.  The support service component has completed the new EMPDA headquarters, and a
regional furniture production and workshop maintenance facility, which are now all in use.
It has also provided computers and technical assistance for capacity building to the
Planning Service and other agencies of MOE. The chalk production unit is complete but
is not functioning yet.
7.  However, there was some uncertainty as to (a) the quantitative targets attained by
the project with respect to construction of 450 primary schools and (b) the nature of
project financed activities carried out for curriculum development. Information received
vanied from one source to another.
8.  Construction of the Primary Schools. The implementation report prepared by the
technical team of the MOE indicated that all of the 450 primary schools were fully
completed by June 1993, the closing date of the project. However, field visits by the Bank
completion mission in two regions (Oromo and Tigray) indicated that both regions have
only completed some of the schools, whilst a number remained in various stages of
completion. These are now being completed by the respective regional governments with
non IDA funds. There was also confusion as to the type of construction materials used on
each school, and the relative proportion of the costs to be shared between the Government
and the community. Construction materials ranged from "chika" (mud) walls (about 250),
concrete blocks (about 76), bamboo walls, and combinations thereof The mission
requested the PMO to review the status of completion of each primary school with the
regional authorities and provide information on the location of schools by region, wereda,
and village site; date of completion or status of construction; and costs. The additional
information provided by PMO in October and December of 1994 indicated that out of 450
primary schools, construction of about 402 primary schools had been completed by June
1993 (Table 5(b)); 21 were completed by June of 1994, and the remaining 25 was
expected to be completed by May of 1995 using government funds. The MOE confirmed
that all the 402 schools completed under the project are currently operational, with a total
enrollment of 149,000 primary students compared to the additional enrollment of 158,000
expected at appraisal.
9.  Curriculum Development. The central element of the quality improvement
objective of the project is curriculum development. It included funds for the
commissioning of professional writers, for the production and testing of new textbooks,
teachers guides and instructional materials, and for subject related workshops and
seminars. The type of activities carried out and the actual number of textbooks prepared
were hard to assess, as there was some degree of discrepancy between the information
stated in the evaluation report prepared by the MOE, and the information given to the
mission during review work. The additional information provided by MOE in October of
1994 suggests that several activities were carried out by ICDR in three distinct areas
between 1986 to 1993. First, it carried out a pilot of the curriculum of the primary schools
in 70 experimental schools on 15 different subjects for Grades 1 to Grades 8. Second,
about 27 textbooks were developed on regular curriculum of which 12 were for
secondary schools through commissioning of writers, symposium and workshops. Third,
for the development of local teaching materials it supported the training and ongoing work



4
of 102 Awraja Pedagogical Centers, which had earlier been financed by IDA. The impact
of these activities, however, is not yet evident in the system.
10. The project appears to have largely achieved its objectives. However, there was no
impact evaluation study nor a systematic monitoring of achievements to specific
components. Only when all implemented facilities are fully operational, the new teachers
in place, and the new curricula in use, will it be possible to determine if the quality and
equity objectives of the project have been fully achieved. Nevertheless, it is evident that
with all the components as completed, the country will have increased its potential for
improving the education system (paras. 24 and 25).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
11. The project experienced serious delays and constraints during its implementation.
After five years from effectiveness, the credit had disbursed only about 30 percent of the
funds. The original closing date (June 30, 1990) had to be postponed three times to allow
for completion of most of the project components. Eventually the credit was closed three
years and nine months after the originally agreed date to accommodate the ERRP
component, and with substantial re-structuring having occurred to some project
components (March 1994). Several factors contributed to delays and other problems.
Some of these factors were beyond the Government's control: the civil war that ravaged
many areas in the country, severely cutting communication, making insecure a large
number of the project sites, and weakening the overall country economy; and the
prolonged and reiterated droughts that caused famine and destitution especially among the
rural population, and that contributed to crush the morale and enthusiasm of those
responsible for implementing the project.
12. Other factors were subject to Government control, namely: (a) the lack of
counterpart funds. Although the Bank, on account of the economic deterioration of the
country, had reduced the ratio of counterpart funding from the original 40 percent to 31
percent, and eventually to 15 percent, the MOE in the first five years of project
implementation was unable to obtain the necessary budget, and the PMO was unable to
pay the Government's share to contractors; (b) the unavailability of construction materials
where most of the material had to be imported; (c) cumbersome procurement and
inefficient import procedures that discouraged potential bidders; (d) poor facilities at the
port of entry, resulting in loss of imported goods; and, (e) inefficient contractors where the
award for construction of all major civil works went to inefficient state enterprises,
because the private contractors were discouraged and excluded from bidding; (f) failure by
Government to coordinate the action of many agencies with implementing responsibilities;
and, (g) shortage of technical staff in the PMO. The core team of PMO, which included
the project manager, coordinator, architect, accountant, and other support staff, had
proven capability and experience acquired in previous projects. However, the demanding
implementation of the project suffered from a lack of other experienced staff, especially
accountants.
13. Finally, some factors affecting implementation of major components were under the
control of other Government implementation agencies, namely EICMA, EMPDA and the



5
PMO. The EICMA, in particular, was responsible for the physical implementation of
schools within the agreed time schedule by using the force account method, and by using
agreed materials. Its performance proved inefficient: the quality of construction in many
cases (especially "chika" (mud) walls for primary schools) was poor resulting in continuing
maintenance problems; the construction program remained unimplemented by the original
credit closing date; and, most important, it provided inaccurate implementation and
completion reporting. The PMO who had the overall implementation and coordination
responsibility was not responsive to the physical and quality implementation of 450
primary schools.
Implementation Record
14. The project went through the following modifications:
(a)  The number of lower secondary schools were increased from 30 to 33, the
additional 3 to be financed through funds resulting from currency fluctuation.
The Sixth Education Project retained 23 LSSs for completion by the closing
date. The construction of 10 LSSs was transferred to the Seventh Education
Project since civil works was delayed by heavy rainfall in 1992/93;
(b)  Provision of water supply to 10, out of 20, secondary schools was transferred
to Education VII for the same reason;
(c)  Equipment for Assella TTI was partially transferred to Education VII for
procurement;
(d)  Of the original 10 APCs, 10 new APCs were added, to be financed through
surplus funds, following the increase in number of awrajas from 100 to about
350;
(e)  A 40 kW radio transmitter to be installed in Asmara was canceled due to the
civil war;
(t) Radio stations at Gondar and Ogaden, originally not included in the project,
were provided, and auxiliary generators were provided to all broadcasting
locations;
(g)  A Staff Development Center was provided at MOE, instead of the upgrading
originally planned, in consideration of the space needs of MOE.
15. The estimated cost of the project was US$ 109.6 million. The IDA credit of SDR
67.3 million, equivalent to US$ 70.0 million, was expected to finance about 72 percent of
total project costs, net of taxes. Disbursement on the original project components was
US$ 64.9 million, representing 93 percent of the initial dollar amount of the credit. The
last disbursement took place in November, 1993. However, due to changes in the value of
SDR against US$, the proceeds of the credit increased to US$ 93.3 million by 1993. Out
of the additional proceeds of about US$ 23.3 million, the IDA concurred to earmark US$



6
15.0 million to finance the education components of the Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Project (ERRP, Cr. 2309-ET). A new disbursement category, Category 9,
was created to allow disbursements on ERRP components until October 31, 1994, six
months foliowing the final closing date of March 31, 1994. The last disbursement for
Category 9 took place in October, 1994, and the total disbursement for ERRP under the
project was US$ 3.9 million. The total disbursement of the credit is US$ 68.8 million,
which is equivalent to SDR 50.8 million. The undisbursed balance of the credit is SDR
16.5 million, equivalent to US$ 24.5 million, which was canceled.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
16. Several elements would indicate that the project is likely to be sustainable, despite
serious budgetary constraints Ethiopia has to face in financing the education sector. In the
financial year 1993/94 the Government increased the allocation to the education sector
from about 9 percent in previous years to about 13 percent of total government
expenditure. The 1993 Sector Strategy Paper specified that following financial year
1993/94, the recurrent budget for education would not be less than 20 percent of the
Government recurrent budget. Salaries of the teachers have been increased by about thirty
percent in FY94/95. The teachers pay scale at each grade is now one-step ahead of other
civil servants.
17. Other policy developments will have a positive impact on the sector as a whole, and
will favor the sustainability of the project. The New Education Policy which establishes
the delegation of power and responsibilities to manage education to regional governments,
emphasizes cost-sharing and cost-recovery particularly at higher levels of education, and
the change from the present 6-2-4 to the 8-2-2 grade system, that will slow progression
into lower secondary, thus allowing more resources to go to improve quality at the
secondary levels.
18. Risks in terms of sustainability concern the technology college in Nazareth, as it will
generate high recurrent expenses mainly due to teacher salaries, student full boarding
costs, and high operational, sophisticated equipment and maintenance costs. The recent
Government cost-recovery policy which allows retention of part of the funds collected by
the institutions should reduce such risks. The Government is also considering, after a few
years of specialized technical teachers training, to open the center's services also to the
private sector, and entering into partnership with private enterprises (for instance training
of trainers, training for specialized technology skills). Government is also encouraged to
seriously study making the college a regional center of excellence.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
19. Project identification was consistent with the Government's education policy, aiming
at improving equity and quality, and strengthening technical education, and was in line
with the Bank's strategy for the development of education in the country. During
preparation assistance was given to the Borrower in assessing issues of project design.
Four technical missions were fielded to discuss project design and implementation
mechanisms. The quality of staff was consistent with the needs and covered all project



7
components, including economic analysis, basic education, technical education, curriculum
development, mass media education, architectural expertise, and accountancy. The same
expertise was utilized during appraisal.
20. Bank performance at project appraisal cannot be rated as satisfactory. The Bank
cooperated closely with the Government in this phase, but it seems that it failed to
properly evaluate the many problems and requirements inherent to the project complexity,
namely the difficulty to implement civil works at hundreds of locations in very remote
areas, the demanding supervision and monitoring task for the project management without
adequate staffing and means of transportation, and the consequent unrealistic
implementation and disbursement schedules. The latter, as specified in the SAR, was
overly ambitious and not in line with the historical country's disbursement profile. The
provision of counterpart funds was also determined without proper evaluation of the
country's general economic situation, and the ongoing civil war.
21. Supervision was regularly conducted. However the spacing of supervision missions
was too wide during the crucial period 1985-88, with one supervision each year, when the
slow disbursement and the huge problems the project was encountering due to the civil
war and the drought would suggest a more intense, closer Bank monitoring of the
situation. In the following years supervision became more frequent. Issues were promptly
assessed and appropriate measures proposed. Useful professional advice was always
given to the Government and to the project implementation staff. The use of Aide-
Memoires to support efficient PMO implementation, and the use of a jointly agreed
Sequential Procurement Processing and Monitoring Schedule (SPPMF), proved
successful. The performance ratings were generally appropriate. However, supervision
missions paid inadequate attention to the implementation of two major project
components: 450 primary schools, and the curriculum development. Significantly, those
two components show the most unclear and controversial implementation results.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22. Borrower performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The PMO was a
strong and experienced management and implementation unit, that had proven its merits in
previous projects. It was helpful in providing assistance to the preparation and appraisal
teams. Government showed its commitment to the project. Borrower performance
during the implementation stage could be divided into two distinct periods: the first five
years 1985-90, and the last 3 years of project implementation (1990-93). After five years
from effectiveness only about 30 percent of the credit had been disbursed due to the
difficulties the project was experiencing: lack of local funding, shortage of construction
materials, slow procurement and inefficient construction work. The Government
unfortunately did not take appropriate action as requested by circumstances. In the
following years, Borrower performance improved steadily and was definitely satisfactory.
The Government became very determined to eliminate all obstacles to complete the
project. By its closing, disbursement reached 99 percent of the original approved credit
(OAC) in US$ terms, of which more than 50 percent occurred in the last two years. All
major credit covenants were complied with.



8
23. The performance of some of the implementation agencies of the Borrower, in
particular of EICMA who carried out the construction of primary schools under force
account, was not satisfactory. EICMA proved inefficient in implementing the construction
program and was inaccurate in reporting implementation progress. The PMO, especially
during the first five years of project implementation, suffered from shortage of staff,
especially accountants, lack of local funds and of appropriate transportation, and from the
Government's rigid application of inefficient procurement and import regulations.
Nonetheless, it was always helpful in assisting supervision missions, and responded well to
the highly demanding new implementation stage. After 1990 its performance in project
supervision, however, was not always adequate to the implementation requirements, and it
appears that it relied heavily on reports from EICMA. In particular, PMO failed to closely
monitor the physical and quality implementation of 450 Primary Schools and of 23 LSSs,
and it had little knowledge of the sites, number of schools and state of completion at each
site. It also conducted inadequate monitoring of the Curriculum Development component.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.  Overall, the project outcome for Ethiopia could be considered as quite satisfactory.
Tne project indeed has made a difference on the development of its institutions, on
enhancing the quality of its educational services, on sound formulation of its policies and
on improving its enrollment. The major positive impact of the project was institutional
development, partly because a large number of educational institutions have either been
established or reinforced through project support. For example, The Center for Education
Staff Development (CESD), the new training facility for the staff of MOE being fully
functional, has enhanced professional competence of more than 600 administrator and
decision makers in a variety of courses and seminars. The teachers training reinforced
through support to major institutions (such as Kotebe, Assella) are contributing to
improve quality of instructions, nationwide. The new college of technology at Nazareth,
known as Productive Technology Teachers Training College (PTTTC), holds a promise to
become a premier regional training institution. The doubling of the pedagogical centers at
the awraja level (sub-districts), known as Awraja Pedagogical Center (APC), led to a
more efficient school supervision, and a better evaluation of the teachers instructional
program. The expansion of the Junior College of Commerce (JCC) has reduced
overcrowding and improved quality of training. Installation of I 1 new transmitters and 7
studios has enabled broadcast's of educational instructions to a large number of schools
over a longer period. The 402 primary schools built under the project have provided
additional enrollment of 149,000, while the 23 lower secondary schools will accommodate
14,000 additional students. However, one of the main objective's of the project,
expanding the capacity, geographical equity and effectiveness of primary and lower
secondary education, fell short of being fully achieved. As noted earlier, the full program
of construction of primary schools in disadvantaged areas, and curriculum development
were only partially completed by the extended closing date of the project, June 1993
(paras. 7-10). Moreover, in some cases the quality of construction is poor and already
deteriorating. Furniture, equipment and educational materials have been mostly procured
and delivered to sites, including those reprocured due to loss at the Assab Port during the
period of civil unrest. Technical Assistance and fellowships were, with a few exceptions,
utilized, though about 20 percent of the fellows did not return.



9
25. To conclude, the overall positive outcome of the project, in particular for
institutional development, is due to the resolute policy and financial and implementation
actions taken by the TGE during the last three years of the project life (1992-1994).
Among its new education measures designed to reform and revitalize the education sector
are: decentralization of decision making, management and organization for primary and
secondary education to regional governments; choice of mother tongue as the medium of
instruction in primary schools; expanded access to basic education by increasing provision
of primary schooling -- to be divided into 4 years of basic and 4 years of general primary
schooling; correcting regional and gender imbalances by giving special assistance and
resources to deprived areas, and increasing the participation of females both in education
and the teaching profession; and introducing cost sharing to upper secondary and higher
education. During this period, the TGE also increased resources earmarked for
development of education by allocating about 18 percent of the recurrent budget and 9
percent of the capital budget.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
26. The Association plans to monitor the performance of the project within the
framework of the recent education policy that will decentralize to the regional
governments the responsibility for the primary and secondary schools, the TTI, the APCs
and the radio transmitters, while the central government will be responsible for the higher
education institutions. With the aim to maximize project benefits the Association plans to
conduct, in accordance with the regional education authorities, a follow-up review of
some selected project schools to determine the degree of their contribution in reducing
regional and gender discrimination, the adequacy of their teachers, and the quality of new
curricula. Meanwhile, the PMO will review the operational status of all project primary
schools and lower secondary schools, including the respective recurrent costs, and the
impact of the activities carried out under curriculum development, including testing and
evaluation results of the new textbooks produced under the component.
27. The following key indicators for project monitoring will be adopted:
*   regional governments participation to education budget allocation;
*   mechanisms of cost-recovery;
*   recurrent and unit costs projected for the PTTTC;
*   number of trained technical teachers employed;
*   enrollment ratios to monitor geographical and gender equity;
*   utilization factor at the teacher training institutions;
•   enrollment and output at the teacher training institutions;
*   adoption rates of the new curricula at project schools; availability of new
textbooks to pupils;
*   hours, quality, and coverage of educational radio transmissions;
*   maintenance of the new institutions.
28. The Bank will continue to follow closely the development of the education system in
Ethiopia. Follow-up projects aiming particularly at improving quality and equity would be



lo
desirable. The time frame for an impact evaluation will have to take into account the time
needed for graduating at least the first batch of students at each project institution. It is
suggested that an OED evaluation be conducted in 3 years time.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29. Important lessons were learned from the project, which are relevant for similar
education projects in Ethiopia:
(a)  Site Selection. The objective of "Geographical Equity" has to be addressed
realistically. When most of the project components are scattered all over the
country, in hundreds of locations with minimal or no communications, it is
essential: (i) to obtain assurance that each location is accessible; (ii) to establish
a congruous and realistic implementation time; and (iii) to provide the
implementation unit with appropriate transportation and other supervision
means. It appears that site selection was done as a desk exercise. Project sites
with difficult access were moved to other locations at a later stage.
Communities which had little say in decision making were greatly disappointed.
(b)  Time Horizons for Civil Works. The time projected for physical
construction should be realistic, and should take into account factors such as
weather, natural calamities and availability of construction materials. Apart
from security problems, it was known that the PMO was also involved in other
projects financed by other donors and could hardly comply with the timing
established.
(c)  Counterpart Funds. The Government's financial obligations and the
deterioration of the economy were not properly evaluated. Discussing
Government priorities in assigning funds is essential. It might be necessary to
adjust the share of Government's contribution, and even revise the project
scope.
(d)  Procurement and Import Regulations. Both were a serious handicap for the
project. Implementation started moving when Government decided to make
local regulations more flexible.
(e)  Disbursement. The disbursement schedule, as specified in the SAR, proved to
be unrealistic. It was overly ambitious and not in line with the country's
disbursement profile.
(f)  Coordination of Responsibilities. Many Government agencies --PMO,
EICMA, EMPDA, ICDR-- were involved in different areas and with various
degrees of responsibility. Coordination was not always easy nor efficiently
done. A firm agreement on each agency's responsibility, and a strict
Government control of its compliance should have been obtained at appraisal
and during negotiations.



11
(g)  Risks. Known risks should not be overlooked. The country was at war, many
regions in the country were off limits. Large projects that are difficult, not
only to implement but also to supervise, should be avoided.
(h)  Supervision and Monitoring. The Bank's direct site supervision and
monitoring of the implementation process is a normal procedure. It should be
waived only when the successive supervision missions are confident that they
could be made responsive for their supervision work and would remain
accountable for their reports.



12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Substantial    Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
A. Achievement
of Objectives
Macro policies                                                                 xx
Sector policies                   xx
Financial objectives                                                           xx
Institutional development         xx
Physical objectives                             xx
Poverty reduction and             xx
other social objectives
Environmental objective                                                        xx
Public sector management                        xx
Private sector development                                     xx
Likely      Unlikely      Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability         xx
Highly     Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                  xx
Preparation assistance                          xx
Appraisal                                                      xx
Supervision                                                    xx
Highly     Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                    xx
Implementation                                  xx
Covenant compliance                             xx
Operation (if applicable)
Highly     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Overall                        xx
Outcome



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose               Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Education I            Expand secondary,              1966       Completed
(84-ET)                technical and teacher                     in 1972.
US$ 7.2 million        education.
Education ll           Assist teacher and             1971       Completed
(243-ET)               agricultural education;                   in 1979.
US$ 9.5 million        improve quality and equity
of secondary education.
Education m            Assist rural education,        1973       Completed
(417-ET)               science teaching, textbook                in 1980.
US$ 10.0 million       and materials production.
Education IV           Expand basic and non           1975       Completed
(553-ET)               formal education, train rural             in 1981.
US$ 23.0 million       development specialists, and
improve social science
teaching in universities.
Education V            Improve quality and            1981       Completed
(1141 -ET)             relevance of primary                      in 1985.
US$ 35.0 million       education, expand
enrollment and adult
literacy, and train high level
manpower in veterinary
medicine.
Education VI           Expand and improve the         1984       Completed
(1520-ET)              quality of primary, lower                 in 1994.
US$ 70.0 million       secondary and technical
education.
Following Operations:
Education VII          Improve basic, secondary       1988       Restructured
(1873-ET)              and higher education, with                1993.
US$ 70.0 Million       emphasis on agricultural                  Revised
equipment.                                closing date
is Sept. 30,
1996.



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                 1982                     May, 1982
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                    1982/1983                October 1982
Appraisal                      1983                     July 1983
Negotiations                   1984                     June 7-8, 1984
Board presentation             1984                     September 11, 1984
Signing                        1984                     December 14, 1984
Effectiveness                  1985                     March 15,1985
Midterm Review/Intensive       n.a.                    July 1992
Supervision
Project Completion             December 31, 1989        June 30, 1993#
Credit Closing (Cat. 1-8)      June 30, 1990            June 30, 1993
Credit Closing (Cat. 9 -- ERRP)   _'March 31, 1994
# Most of the project components were completed except those financed under the ERRP
component.



TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLION)
FY          85      86      87      88      89      90      91      92     93         94         Total
Appraisal          2      12      29      46      69      70                                            70
Estimate
Actual                     2       6      13      25      29     36      44      58        69           69
Actual as %        0      17      21      28      36      41     51      63      83        99           99
of Estimate
Date of Final                                                                           10/04/94
Disbursement
TABLE 4A: DISBUJRSEMENT STATUS
70
60   Signing                                             /Wm c
(12/84)                                                                   A             Repayn,enl
50               Effectwveness                                          /A(15
(0                    (3185)                   A'                         A'
2   40                                       flFinal Closing Date
-I                                                                                  (3194(
~~~~~ 30                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~A- -A  rigiinal Closing
fl/   ~~A-Dale (61901
20                                       /A
10
*Z*S*S W~~~~~~~~Euctio Sctr                    ros  Scos             CC00



16
TABLE 5(A): KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implem ion                 Estimated                     Actual
Indicators in SAR
1. Direct Education
A. Number of primary       Build 450 four-classroom   402 schools constructed (Table
schools built, equipped    primary schools.       5(b) attached) - 90% of target.
and in use
B. Number of kits          Support manufacture of     6,000 kits assembled and
assembled and delivered   6,000 primary school science  delivered - 100% of target.
kits.
C. Number of LSS built,    Build 30 LSS (target at    23 LSSs built and
equipped and in use    appraisal) + 3 added with    10 LSSs transferred to Edu.
surplus funds.             VII- 77% of target
D. Proportion of designated   Provide instructional   Equipment installed and in use
equipment installed for 7  equipment for 7 HSS.   - 100% of target.
HSS
E. Number of schools with   Provide safe and adequate    20 schools provided with water
new water supply in    water supply for 20 LSS.   supply - 100% of target.
operation
F. New TTI built, equipped  Construct one primary     Completed -100% of target.
and in operation       Teacher Training Institute
(TTI) at Asella.
G. Expanded facilities built  Expansion and improvements  All works completed and
and in use at Kotobe   at Kotobe College of Teacher  equipment installed and in use
College of Teacher     Education.                 - 100% of target.
Education
H. A new college of        Build and equip a new      New college (PITTC) built,
Productive Technology    college for about 800    equipped and operational
Teacher Training College  students at Nazareth.   - 100% of target.
(PTTTC)
- Number of staff trained  Provide 20 p/y of staff  10 trained staff in service -
and in service at PTTTC   training prior of initial  4 on study, 6 did not return
operation of the college   -40% of target.



17
Key Implementation              Estimated                      Actual
Indicators in SAR
I. Expanded facilities of   Build and equip an expansion  All expanded facilities built and
Junior College of       of the JCC to accommodate   in use -- 100% of target
Commerce (JCC)          280 additional students.
- Number of JCC staff    Provide 6 p/y of fellowships   6 trained staff in service; 1 did
trained and returned to    for JCC staff.           not return -- 80% of target.
service
J. HEMD Staff trained and   Provide 18 p/m of           6 staff trained: 5 in service
returned to service     fellowships for HEMD.       1 did not return -- 80% of
(fellowships)                                       target.
2. Quality Improvement
A. Number of Awraja         Construct 10 APCs.          20 APCs built and in use
Pedagogical Centers                                 -- 200% of target.
(APCs) built, equipped
and in use
B. Provide a training center   Build and equip a training  CESD completed and in use
for MOE                 center.                     - 100% of target.
C. Number and nature of     Provide funds for support of   Activities were carried out for
activities carried out by    materials production,  (a) primary curriculum;
ICDR (Institute for     seminars, workshops and     (b) production of textbooks;
Curriculum Development  commissioned writers by the   (c) local teaching materials by
and Research, which was  ICDR.                      APCs.
called National
Curriculum Development
Center (NCDC) at
appraisal time), and
number of staff weeks of
training provided



18
Key Implementation               Estimated                     Actual
Indicators in SAR                                                               l
D. Number of transmitters    Provide an additional 10-kW    10 transmitters installed and in
installed and in use    radio transmitter to each of    use (Sidamo (1); Eritrea (1);
11 Department of            Wollo (1); Gojam (2);
Educational Mass Media      Hararghe(1); Illubabor(1); Shoa
(DEMM) stations.           (2); Gamo Goffa(1))
-- 90% of target.
- New facilities for    Expand DEMM headquarters  All facilities built and in use
DEMM headquarters       facilities.                 -- 100% of target.
built and in use
- Number of new DEMM   Build 7 local studio buildings  4 buildings fully built and in
buildings built and in use  for DEMM.                use -- 60% of target.
- Survey on existing    Carry out field strength     Survey completed -- 100% of
transmission network    survey on existing           target
completed and report    transmission network.
delivered completed
3. Support Services
A. Specialist on computer    Provide 2 p/y of computer  Specialist provided by other
system analysis on post   systems analysis to the MOE.  donor; Fund unutilized.
and performing
effectively
- Equipment delivered,    Provide computer hardware    All equipment provided and in
installed and in regular    and software, and other  use -- 100% of target.
use                     equipment to the MOE.
- MOE staff trained and    Provide 47 p/m of         1 long term trainee and 1 short
returned to service     fellowships and in-country    term trainee on post, and
training to MOE staff on    2 staff did not return
computer systems and their   -- 50% of target.
use.



19
Key Implementation               Estimated                      Actual
Indicators in SAR
B. Construction and use of   Build and furnish a new     New building constructed and
the headquarters building   headquarters building for the  in use -- 100% of target.
for EMPDA                Educational Materials
Production and Distribution
Agency (EMPDA).
- Execution of designated  Provide 3 p/y of specialist  All specialist services and 10
program of specialist   services and 12 p/m of       fellowship executed -- 100% of
services and fellowships   fellowships to strengthen  target.
management and procurement
capabilities of EMPDA.
- Number of new trucks   Purchase 5 trailer trucks for   All 5 trucks purchased and in
in service, and quantity    delivery of school books and   use -- 100% of target.
of books and materials   material by EMPDA.
delivered on schedule
- Provision of spare parts  Provision of spare parts for    All spare parts provided
according to the        educational equipment        -- 100% of target.
designated schedule      maintenance and repair.
C. New chalk production     Build and equip a chalk     New chalk production unit not
unit built and in        production unit to replace the  yet functional; needs equipment
operation and meeting    existing one.               to be installed and power
education system                                     supply -- 80% of target.
requirements for chalk
D. Provision and operational  Provide workshop buildings,  All buildings and equipment
use of workshop building  equipment, vehicles and    provided -- 100% of target.
for regional furniture   curing shed for 5 Regional
production units         production units.



20
Key Implementation                Estimated                       Actual
Indicators in SAR
E. Facility for MOE vehicle  Construction and equipping    Built and in operation -- 100%
maintenance built and in   of a vehicle maintenance and   of target.
use                      repair facility for the MOE
- Execution of designated   Provide 3 p/y of specialist  All specialist services and
program of specialist    services and 5 p/y of         fellowships provided; staff on
services for vehicle fleet   fellowships to support    post -- 100% of target.
maintenance              improved operation of the
vehicle fleet and the new
facility.
F. Effective management of   Provide support for efficient   Support provided for
project implementation   operation of the PMO.         management of project
implementation -- 100% of
target.
- Project coordinator on    Provide 4 p/y of Project   4 p/y of Project Coordinator
post                     Coordinator services.         Services provided. -- 100% of
target.
- Administrator on post    Provide 4 p/y of Technical    4 p/y of Administrator
Assistance Administrator     provided -- 100% of target.
services.
- Civil works coordinator  Provide 4 p/y of Civil Work   Provided by other donor.
on post                  Coordinator specialist
services.
- Qualified clerk of     Provide 40 p/y of clerk of    Provided from MOE funds.
works on post            works specialist services.



21
TABLE 5(B): NUMBER OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS COMPLETED BY REGION (1986-1994)
Year/Region            1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
1.   Tigray                               - -9                             -----  -4
2    Afar                                            --- 1   ---3                  ---4
3.   Gojam            ----3   ----1   ----5   ----2   ---2   ----I   ----I  ----7
4.   W. Gojam                        --I   ----3   ----1           ----1   ----7
5    N. Gondar        ----I          ----3   ----5   ----6         ----2   ----7
6.   S. Gondar                       ----3   ----5          ----2   ----2   ---6
7.  N. Showa                                 ----1          ---8           ----3   ---I
8.   N. Wollo                 ---I           ----5                  ----1   ---7
9.   S. Wollo                        ----4   ----2          ----7          ----8
10.  Arsi                            ----1                  ---14
11. Ormiya                           ---1           ---1   ---11                   -1
12. Ormiya                    ----3   ---2   ---10   ----6   ----1         ---I
(lilubadar)
13.  Wollega                         ----4   ---6   ----8   --1  ----2   ---2   -2
14.  West Shoa                               ----2                                 -1
15. West Haperge                                            ----2   ----1   ---I
16.  Nipt Borena              ----2   ----8   ----8                 ----1
17.  Negele Borena                                  ----2          ----1
18. Ogaden                           ----4   ----5   ---4   ---3   ---3
19. Benshangule                      ---- 1   ----6   ----I  ----7   ----4
20.  People Sidamo            ----I                                        ----1   --3
21. North Omo                        ----I  ---10   ---10   ----2   ---2   --10
22.  South Omo                               ----I   ---1          --2   -2
23.  Gurage                           -1                4                  ---3   ---5
24.  Keffa                            ----5   ----5         ---2   ---4
25.  Gambela                  ----1   ----I   ----5   ---1   ---5          ---1
26.  Harar                                                  ----5
27.  Dipedawa         ----4                          ---1                  ---2
28.  Eritria                  ---9   ----4          ----5   ---19
Total         4      16      43     90      62     93      25     69      21
Total as of June 1993 is 402 schools, however, the MOE has constructed an additional 47
pfimary schools with the support from regional governments, leading to 449 by
1994/1995.



22
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Project          Indicator              Expected                  Actual
Component                                                           12/94
Primary schools  Increased          From Academic Year       149,000
enrollment capacity   94/95 + 158,000 students
l LSSs          Increased           From Academic year       14,000
enrollment capacity   94/95 +24,000 students
PTTTC           Annual enrollment   From Academic year       Diploma = 303
rate                96/97 on:
800 technical teachers
(400 in two-year diploma
and 400 in four-year
degree);
Annual output rate   300 technical teachers  Degree = 169
(100 from degree
programs and 200 fromn
diploma programs);
Utilization factor  Close to 100%            Close to 79%
JCC             Annual output rate   From Academic Year      200
94/95 +280 students
Curriculum      Adoption rates of    From Academic Year      - Tryout curriculum in 70
Development    new curricula by the  94/95 on: all 265       experimental primary
system             textbooks covering 14     schools on 15 different
subject produced by the    subjects for Grade 1 to 8;
project in use          - 27 textbooks of which
12 were for secondary
schools;
- Local teaching materials
for 102 Awraja
Pedagogical Centres.
TTI             Annual enrollment   From Academic year       500 primary teachers;
and output rates    94/95 on 600 primary     92%
teachers;
Utilization factor  Nearly 100%              Nearly 90%.



23
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study        Purpose as defined at        Status        Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Survey on     Provide information about   Completed.       No impact
existing       existing facilities.                        evaluation done.
transmission
network.



24
TABLE 8A: THE PROJECT COSTS
(USS MILLION)
Apprais__                  Actual
Categoy          Govi.   IDA      Tota    Govl.   IDA        Total
1. Civil Works           20.4   30.5    50.9    11.5    34.4    45.9
2. Fumiture               2.1     4.0      6.1      1.4      4.7     6.1
3. Equipment & Vehicles    4.6    16.0    20.6      7.1    19.4    26.5
4. Technical Assistance   0.9         2.6  3.5      1.0      3.2     4.2
5. Fellowship             0.4     14       1.8      0.3      2.5     2.8
6. Operating Costs        0.}    0.3       0.4      0.1      0.6     0.7
including Curriculum
Development
7. Inital Deposit
8. Contingency           11.1   15.2    26.3        -        0.1     0.1
Total              39.6   70.0   109.6    21.4    68.8    90.2
9. ERRP*                   -     15.0    15.0       -        3.9     3.9
* Note: Created in FY92 to finance education component of the Emergency Recovery
Project under Cr. 2309-ET from the gains due to change in value of SDR. Out of US$
15.0 million allocated to ERRP, US$ 3.9 million had been disbursed due to slow
procurement processing.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(USS MILLION)
Source                  Planned                Final (Actual)
(at Appraisal)
IDA                               70.0                     68.8
Govermnent                        39.6                     21.4
Total Project Costs               109.6                    90.2



25
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Calculation of economic rate of return or cost-effectiveness in achieving project
objectives: Not Applicable.



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section   Covenant Type    Present       Original     Revised             Description of Covenant             Comments
Status    Fulflllment  Fulfillment
l_______                                    Date         Date
2.02       Financial                    March                     Opening of Special Account.
1986
2.03       Procurement      C                                     Procurement of goods and civil works shall
be governed by Schedule 3 of the credit
agreement.
3.02       Project         C            Ongoing                   The borrower shall: a) maintain the PMO
Implementation               since 1984.               within MOE; b) employ PMO staff; c)
Arrangements                                           furnish to PMO adequate funds.
3.03       Institutional    C           Ongoing                   Employed qualified consultants and
specialists.
3.04 (a)   Procurement     C            Ongoing                   Adequate provision for the insurance of the
imported goods.
3.04 (b)   Procurement      C           Ongoing                    Goods to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the project.
3.05 (a)   Project          C           Ongoing                    Submission to IDA of plans, specifications,
Implementation                                         reports, contracts documents, and
Arrangement                                            procurement schedules.
3.05 (b)   Project         CP           Ongoing                   The borrower shall: a) maintain records and
Implementation                                         monitor the progress of the project; b)
Arrangement                                            enable IDA to supervise the project's
activities; c) provide IDA with necessary
information.
3.05 (c)   Financial       C                                      Preparation of a completion report.
3.05 (d)   Monitoring      C                                      Publish description of contracts.
3.06 (a)   Monitoring      C            May 1992                  Submission to IDA of a working plan for
the following fiscal year, by April 30, each
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  y e a r.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ya r



Section   Covenant Type    Presnet      Original     Revised            Description of Covenant            Comments
Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
3.06 (b)    Monitoring        C         October                  Submission to IDA of the final work plan
1992                   for the current fiscal year, by August 31,
each year.
3.07        Project          C                                  Provision of land and rights in respect of
Implementation                                         land as required by the project's activities.
Arrangement
3.08     Environmental      NC         October                 Ensuring that the dust emission of the chalk  Chalk unit not
1992                   production unit be acceptable for workers'    yet
heaIth.                   functional.
To be
checked under
Ed. VII
4.01 (a)     Financial        C         Ongoing                     Maintaining appropriate accounting
practices.
4.02 (b)     Financial        C         Ongoing                   The borrower shall: a) maintain separate
accounts on the basis of statements of
expenditures; b) retain until one year after
the closing date all records of expenditures;
l_________                                                         c) enable IDA to examine such records.
4.02 (c)      Project         CD        Ongoing                   The borrower shall: a) have the accounts
Implementation                                        audited; b) submit to IDA not later than six
Arrangement                                          months after the end of each year a certified
copy of the auditing report; c) furnish to
IDA all information concerning accounts,
l______________________________           ___records, and  expenditures
Legend: Present Status:
C      Complied with                      CP    Complied with partially
CD    Complied with after delay           NC    Not complied with



28
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title          Description and Comment
on Lack of Compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational
Manual Statements.



29
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
(weeks)
Stage of           Planned             Actual
Project Cycle
Through Appraisal          20                 20
Appraisal-Board            25                 25
Board-Effectiveness         2                  2
Supervision                18                 30
Completion                  5                  6
TOTAL                      70                 83



TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of       Month/   No. of   Days in    Specialized Staff   Performance   Types of
Project Cycle     Year    Persons  the Field  Skills Represented      Rating      Problems
Status
Through Appraisal  Feb 1982      1        14     Educ. spec.
Jan 1983      2         14     Educ/Arch.
Apr 1983      3        21      Educ/Arch/Econ
Jun 1983      1         7      Arch.
Appraisal through   Jul 1983     7        21     Educ/Econ/Arch
Board Approval    Aug 1983       1         7      Arch.
Feb 1984      1         7      Educ.
Board Approval    N.A.
through
Effectiveness
Supervision       Oct 1984      2          7     Educ./Arch                1       Launch
Aug 1985      3        10      Educ.(2)/Arch            I       Implem.
Aug 1986      1         8      Educ.                    I       Implem.
Aug 1987      1         7      Educ.                    1       Implem.
Feb 1988      3         7      Educ.(2)/Arch.           2       Implem.
Oct 1988      1         5      Educ.                    *       Implem.
Mar 1989      2         7      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
Nov 1989      2         5      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
May 1990      2         7      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
Nov 1990      2         6      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
Jul 1992      2         5      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
Feb 1993      2         8      Educ./Arch               2       Implem.
Jun 1993      2         8      Educ./Arch               1       Implem.
Dec 1993      2         7      Educ./Arch               I       Implem.
Completion        June 1994     4          7     Educ./Arch                S
* Form 590 did not provide rating status.



3'
Ethiopia: Education VI (Cr. 1520-ET)
Implementation Completion Review Mission
Aide-Memoire - June 30, 1994
INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission from the World Bank (AF2PH) led by Abdun Noor (Divisional Portfolio
Manager, and Task Manager of Education VI and VII projects- the Cr. 1520-ET and Cr. 1873-
ET), visited Ethiopia from June 15 to July 1 1994. The mission consisted of Frederick Walker,
Implementation Specialist (June 13-23 1994);Taverekere Srikantaiah, Information Management
Specialist (June 21-July 1 1994); R. I. Gopalkrishnan, Senior Procurement Specialist (June 23-29
1994); Mario Cecere, Agricultural Educator, Consultant and former World Bank Staff (June 13 -
30 1994) and Ms. Laura Frigenti, Economist, Consultant (June 13-16 1994).
2.    The mission reviewed with the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE), the status of
completion of the Education VI Project (Cr. 1520- ET); the progress in implementing the
Education VII Project (Cr. 1873 ET) following its restructuring in July of 1993; the progress of the
remaining education components of the ERRP (Cr. 2531 ET) now being financed from Cr. 1873
ET; and initiated discussions with the TGE on utilization of PHRD grants for financing
preparation activities for the longer term human resources development program in Ethiopia.
3.     The mnission undertook extensive field visits: the College of Dryland Agriculture at Mekele;
the University of Agriculture at Alemaya; the Productive Technology Teacher Training College at
Nazareth; and a few primary schools, lower secondary and secondary schools at the Oromo and
Tigray regions. It met His Excellency Negussie Yibas, Vice Minister of Ministry of Education;
Mr. Fekade Teffera, Manager Project Management Office; Mr. Amde Selassie Jemberie, Team
Leader, Study Team of MOE for the Implementation Completion Report; and senior officials of the
Ministry of Education, Regional Governments, Ethiopian Colleges and Universities. Everywhere
the mission was met with a spirit of cooperation and professional assistance, which is gratefully
acknowledged.
4.    This aide-memoire and its attached anmexes record findings of the mission and the
understandings reached with the Ministry of Education. It is subject to confirmation by the
Management of the World Bank shortly after the return of the mission to Washington.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW
5.    In assessing the status of project completion the mission reviewed the ICR prepared by the
Technical Study Group appointed by MOE, undertook field visits, and met with senior officials of
the MOE and of Regional Governments. The project represents a notable effort towards
improvement of the educational services in Ethiopia. It was, and still is, in line with the country's
educational policies and strategies towards increasing access to basic education better geographic
and gender equity in access to educational services, and improved quality.
6.    Many of the project's components are already operational, thus contributing to the equity
and quality objectives set at appraisal, and in particular: increased educational opportunities,
especially at primary level in remote and disadvantaged areas, through new primary schools;
increased and improved training of technical and vocational teachers trough the new PTTTC in



32
Nazareth; increased primary teachers training through the new TTI in Asella; increased and
improved training of secondary school teachers through the expansion of the Kotobe College of
Teacher Education; improved commerce training through the rehabilitation and extension of the
JCC; more efficient and effective school supervision and teacher training evaluation through the
creation of several APCs; and the expansion of mass-media education.
7.     Together with its satisfaction for the project accomplishments, the mission wishes to
express its concern for important issues it observed in the implementation of some project
components, especially with regard to the achievement of the desired educational objectives:
(a)    Primarv and Lower Secondary Education. The project included 450 new primary
schools and 23 JSSs, scattered all over the country. Most of these schools are reported to
have been completed and operational. Additional information is necessary as to the
completion of some schools in some regions. The mission has requested PMO to review
the status of completion of those institutions together with the regional authorities and with
EICMA, and to provide the Association with the outcome of such review by August 1994.
The review should include inception and completion dates of all completed schools and
respective costs. For the unfinished schools the review should provide (i) the status of
completion, (ii) the date of completion, and (iii) the contribution by MOE and IDA for
each school.
(b)    Curriculum Development. This component was central to the quality
improvement objective of the project. It provided funds for the comnmissiomnng of
professional writers, for the production and testing of new textbooks, teacher guides and
other instructional materials, and for subject-related seminars and workshops. Some
degree of discrepancy exists between the number and type of activities carried out under
this component as stated in the ICR, and the information given to the mission during its
review work. It is recommended that PMO reviews with the ICDR staff: original
textbooks, syllabi, teacher and student guides and other instructional materials produced
by subject and level, books that already existed and were reviewed and reprinted, number
and professional qualification of writers hired for what task and length of respective
contracts, number and type of texts tested and schools where they were tested, evaluation
of such testing, rate of adoption of each text and other materials, itemized costs. The
PMO will provide additional information on this by August 1994.
(c)    PTTTC. The college has fine facilities and technologically valid equipment. It has
great potential to become a center of excellence, provided it is staffed with high quality
staff. High recurrent costs are envisaged for the Center. Cost-recovery and other
measures are recommended to guarantee sustainability of the institution. It should be
considered offering specialized training to technical staff of private firms, and to make the
center a regional training institution.
(d)    JCC. The college has received 25 computers, all with no hard disk. The
possibility should be studied to remedy this shortcoming by upgrading the computers
through the education VII project funds. The computer center is inadequately staffed.
(e)    Kotebe TTC. The mission noted that 20 computers provided to the college have
had no hard disk. The same measure as for the JCC is recommended. Construction



33
quality is generally poor. The site works are seriously delayed, with significant
inconvenience for students and staff in moving in the campus.
(f)    Chalk Production Unit. The unit is completed and the equipment and machinery
delivered but not installed. The electricity company will not connect power until the exact
amount of power needed for production is determined. Any further delay in making the
unit productive represent a considerable economic loss.
8.    Lessons leamed. The project was no doubt complex, in terms both of scope and number of
beneficiary agencies involved, and of the number and remoteness of construction sites. On the
other hand it is the World Bank's policy to operate not just to bring education to a few communities
at a time, but to have a system development approach aiming at eradicating the danger of future
illiterate generations. In such situation, risks of less than satisfactory implementation is a
possibility. To minimize such risks, it will be necessary in future to maximize the supervision and
monitoring capabilities of the implementation units, in particular by extending responsibilities to
the regional administrations as appropriate, and by reorganizing and reinforcing the central project
office ( see paras. 21-23).
NEXT STEPS
9.    The Govemment, in addition to routine project implementation, will:
(a)    provide additional infomiation on status of completion of 450 primary schools and
on curriculum development by August 1994(para. 7);
(b)    a procurement plan validated by PMO and options for altemative procurement
arrangements by July 31 1994 (para 17);
(c)    provide organizational arrangements and operating procedures of the Text Book
Revolving fund by July 31 1994 (para 18);
(d)    draft bidding documents and region-wise civil works plan for basic education
facilities by July 31 1994 (para 19);
(e)    a proposed altemative implementation strategy for a limited program for primary
school maintenance and construction by October 31, 1994 ( para 20);
(f)    provide MOE proposal on regionalized project implementation arrangements by
August 31, 1994 (para 21);
(g)    provide audit reports on Education VI and VII by August 1994 ( para 24);
(h)    provide time bound action plans on those components classified as
"developmental", by October 1994 and subsequently prepare revised working
papers taking into account the technical observations of the missions dated
February 1993, July 1993, and June 1994, the new education policy, ( para 11);
and
(i)    provide its view on the ICR within six weeks of receipt of the completed report.



34
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT'
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EI)A EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. 1520-ET)
CHAPTER I
Executive Summary: Borrower's Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction
This summary presents the main conclusions of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Sixth IDA Education Project (Credit 1520 0 ET), produced for the Borrower, the
Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE), by the Project Management Office (PMO) of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and submitted to the International Development Association (IDA).
The report was produced by a Technical Study Team, im March-May 1994, appointed for the
purpose of reviewing and evaluating the implementation of the Sixth IDA Education Project. The
ICR Technical Team was coordinated by Ato Amde Selassie Jemberie and assisted by a short term
consultant, Ms. Maureen Woodhall. Annex 14 gives the membership of the Technical Study
Team.
Tlhe Project
The credit of SDR 67.3 rmillion (US$ 70.0 million equivalent) was approved on August 7,
1984, to support the Government of Ethiopia's educational objectives of expanding access to
education, alleviating shortages of trained manpower and improving the quality and equity of the
education system.
The credit became effective on March 15, 1985 and was closed on June 30, 1993, three
years after the closing date originally agreed (June 30, 1990). The last disbursement took place on
October 31, 1993, by which date the total disbursement was US$ 64.9 million, which represented
97% of the amount of the credit, as originally negotiated. However, as a result of fluctuations in
the US$ value of the SDR, the total credit was increased to US$ 93.5 million, which meant that
some further items could be financed by the additional funds. Part of the credit (US$ 15.0 million)
was transferred to the Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (ERRP) to rehabilitate
war-damaged schools, after the prolonged civil war that ended in 1991. When the ERRP closed on
March 31, 1994 total disbursement of funds transferred from the IDA Education VI Project was
US$ 7.5 million, and the combined disbursement from Education VI and ERRP was US$ 72.4
million. This left an unutilized balance of US$ 20.5 million, from the revalued credit amount of
US$ 93.5 million, and this balance was canceled.
The total cost of the project was US$86.3 million, of which the IDA Credit financed
75.2% and the Government 24.8% (including taxes).
I     The full report of the Borrower is available in Africa Files. Since this report was prepared in
May 1994, some of the data presented, in particular relating to project costs, differ from that of the Project
Implementation Assement of this ICR, which indicates the latest position.



35
A.    The Oblectives of the Prolect
The Sixth Education Project was intended to contribute to the overall
development  objectives  of Ethiopia  by  increasing  access  to  education,
particularly at the primary and secondary school levels, improving the
geographical equity of distribution of basic education facilities, increasing
the quality of education and overcomlng shortages of trained manpover that
severely constrain development efforts. The project consisted of three
components: (a) a direct education component, concentrating particularly on
primary and secondary education and teacher training (b) a quality improvement
component, concentrating on curriculum and staff development and educational
broadcasting and (c) a support service component whlch aimed to strengthen the
capacity of the Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
(EMPDA), the MOE Planning Service and Project Management Office (PMO).
The direct education component of the project aimed at expanding
capacity, improving quality and equity of access to primary and secondary
education and overcoming shortages of qualified manpower by means of:
a     construction, equipping and furnishing of:
-     450 primary schools
30 lower secondary schools (LSS)
(. 3 financed by the additional funds)
-     I Teacher Training Institute (TTI);
-     1 Productive Technology Teacher Training College;
*     production and distribution of;
-     6,000 primary school science kits
-     teaching equipment for 7 higher secondary schools (HSS)
(+ 5 financed by the additional funds)
*     provision of vater supply to 20 secondary schools;
expanding and rehabilitating Kotobe College of Teacher Education
and Junior College of Commerce.
The quality improvement component consisted of:
a     constructing, equipping and furnishing:
-     10 Awraja Pedagogical Centers (APCs)
(+10 financed by the additional funds)
-     A new Staff Training Center for the MOE
r     Improving curriculum development through production of textbooks.
library books, teacher's guides, syllabl and other teaching aids;
*     expanding/enlarging 11 one kw medium vave radio transmitters to
10 kv transmitters and renovating seven studio buildings for
school broadcasting (*1 new transmission station. 2 transmitters
and 1 new studio, financed by the additional funds).
The support services component included:
I     cons::uc.;-.g,  equ'ppin;  and  '.:nlsh'ng  a  new  Ileadqu.rtc3
building, cnzlk production uni:, reginal 4urn:ture pr3du:-.i--.i
units and vehicle maintenance workshop and g2rage for EMPDA
-2-



36
I     providing training, technical assistance and essential equipment for the
MOE Planning Service and PMO.
The objectives of the oroject were, at the time of appraisal in 1984, and stil'
remain today, in line with the broad socio-economic development of the country, anc
consistent with educational demand and human resource requirements. They ar,e alsc
consistent with the New Education Policy, recently adopted by the TGE.
B.    Achievement of Obiectives
At the time of writing this ICR (April, 1994) most project components have beer
fully completed and some of the remaining or uncompleted items, totalling US$10.E
million, have been transferred to the IDA Education VII project, (Credit 1873 ET) for
completion  in the next year.
When all project components are fully complete and operational the followinG
objectives will be achieved:
(a)   450 new primary and 23 lower secondary schools (LSS) have been built anc
equipped, which will increase student enrollment  by 158,000 and 18,4CC
respectively, thereby expanding educational opportunities for primary anc
secondary school age children, particularly in remote areas. (10 LSS have
been transferred to Education VII).
(b    The provision of 6,000 science kits, teaching equipment and materials for
12 HSS and water supply for 20 LSS have significantly increased the quality
and efficiency of these schools.
(c)   The establishment of Assela TTI will, as of June, 1995 when its first
teachers are trained, increase the output of primary school teachers by 6CX
annually, contributing to primary school expansion and improvements ir
quality.
(d)   Nazareth Technical College has now opened and when it is operating at full
capacity about 300 technical and vocational teachers  and technicians will
be produced annually (100 in 4-year degree programs  and 200 in 2-year
diploma programs), contributing to the country's manpower development.
(e)   The expansion of existing facilities, and the creation of new dormitories
and a gymnasium at Kotobe College of Teacher Education has already enablec
the college to improve quality and reduce overcrowding, accomrodating 20C
additional students who will be assigned in secondary schools that noi..
suffer from unprecedented shortages of teachers.
(f)   The rehabilitation and extension of the Junior College of Commerce has
already eased the long standing congestion and overcrowding of existinc
facilities. Additional equimnent and staff training has resulted ir
significant improvements in quality and increased efficiency. The nes
library facilities are not yet complete but are expected to be read)
shortly and will substantially enhance the college's quality.
-3-



37
(g)   The  creation of 20 APCS  in various  regions has effectively
facilitated the provision of school supervision, evaluation of
teacher training programs and use of teaching aids, thereby
contributing to quality improvement in primary schools.
(h)   The  new MOE  Staff Training  Center  is now able  to  conduct
seminars, workshops, short-term training and orientation courses
for professional or administrative staff, working both at the
headquarters and in the regions. To date some 500 participants
have attended a course of training at the center, which will
significantly improve the quality of MOE services.
(i)   The National Center for Curriculum Development (NCDC) produced
school textbooks, supplementary reading materials, teachers'
guides and syllabi for primary and secondary schools, thus
substantially contributing to more effective teaching and quality
improvement. About 265 materials and books are currently in use.
(J)   The  addition of  10 kw.  transmitters  to 11 existing  I kw.
transmitters has expanded educational broadcasting capacity,
contributing to more and better primary, secondary and adult
education. The renovation of 7 existing studio buildings. that
are  currently about 75% complete,  and the construction  and
equipping of one idditional radio transmission station and
broadcasting  studio)  will  also  help  raise  the  quality  of
educational broadcasting when they are operational.
(k)   The establishment of a nev Headquarters for EMPDA, accommodating
273 staff on one campus has tremendously improved the efficiency
and quality of the work of the Agency, though minor works remain
to be completed.
(1)   The creation of a vehicle maintenance and repair workshop and
garage at EMPDA. has enabled the MOE to service its fleet of 700
vehicles  cost effectively.
(m)   The 5 furniture production units established in the regions are
now supplying furniture for primary schools and helping to
alleviate serious shortages of school furniture.
(n)   The new EMPDA Chalk Production Unit, with its modern facilities
and equipment, will produce more and better quality chalks and
will satisfy the demand for chalk of the whole country, when
fully  operational.  It  is  hoped  to  export  any  surplus  to
neighbouring countries and thus generate income.
(o)   Technical assistance and fellowships for staff training, both in
Ethiopia and abroad, together with short and long-term training,
seminars, workshops and orientation courses conducted in various
departments and institutions during the implementation of the
project have significantly contributed towards the capacity
building and manpower development of the project institutions.
(p)   The prov'-'cn cG  vehicles :c different 'epartmwnts aniJ agencles
of the nOE tas ,tea-:ly increased the efficiency of distrib-.ion
of educational materials, furniture and equl¢ient to the regions,
-6.-



38
particularly  for rural  communities where  transportation  Is a
major problem and it has facilitated better communication and
effective educational administration, both at the headquarters
and in the regions.
C.    Malor factors affectfnr the orolect
During implementation the project faced many bottlenecks, constraints
and major problems which resulted in a three year extension of the project.
These problems included:
- Lack of counterpart/matching funds, partly as a result of the distorted
prioricies and policies of the previous military government;
- Man-made and natural catastrophes. including drought, famine and civil
war which culminated in the overthrow of the previous regime in 1991
and establishment of the TGE;
-  Shortages   and  unavailability  of  construction  materials,  which
contributed to a lack of competitive bids for civil works and many
implementation delays;
- Excessive regulations and bureaucratic delays during the previous
regime, leading to incompetence, inefficiency or disinterest on the
part of contractors, and unwieldy port and customs clearance procedures
which caused delays in procurement;
- The civil war and disruption in 1991 caused the loss of many project
items at Assab Port, and these had to be reprocured. causing both cost
over-runs and further delay;
- The need to build schools in remote areas led to cosunication and
transportation problems;
-  Shortages of technical staff in the PMO led to delays in submitting
audit reports; these shortages were made worse by the fact that the PHO
is responsible for management of all projects and there were several
overlapping projects, vith different donor requirements, during this
time.
D.    Project Sustainability
Like other developing countries, particularly in East Africa, Ethiopia
faces serious resource constraints in financing education, but there are
several positive factors likely to increase the sustainability of the project.
The TGE made an unprecedented increase in the share of the national budget
going to education in the last financial year (1993/94), by making an
allocation of 13% of total Government expenditure and 5S of the GDP (compared
with only about 9% and 3.6%, respectively, between 1984/85 and 1989/90). Slov
economic growth will seriously limit  the amount of funds available for the
education sector. but education now has a much higher priority both at central
and regional government level than under the previous regime.
Twc Lnajcr pclicy Je elopztnts by the TGE will have positive Inpects fo
the 3us;aLnaoiiity of the prc,ect:
-5-



39
(I)   Devolution  of  Powers  and  Responsibilities  to  Rezional  Self
Governments
The new policy of decentralization vill transfer responsibility for
finance and management of primary and secondary schools and TTI to regional
governments, which give a high priority to education and will encourage the
involvement and support of local communities in financing school maintenance.
(ii) The New Education Policy
The TCE has approved a New Education Policy that aims to revitalize
education and increase its relevance and quality. The new policy emphasizes
the need for cost-sharing and cost recovery, particularly at higher levels,
will promote cost reductions through increased efficiency and lower wastage
and will encourage schools and colleges to increase income generation. The
project institutions should benefit from this change of policy.
E.    Bank Performance
The  Bank  performance  in  the  Sixth  Education  Project  was  very
significant, as it had been in the previous   five IDA financed education
projects. Moreover, the Bank's input in the project identification and
preparation of the Sixth Project was rooted in its past assistance, In terms
of the institutional capacity building rendered by the Bank over 28 years. The
Bank's assistance in the preparation of this project was related to an
overriding principle of the Bank's objectives, which is to assist member.
countries in their own institutional capacity building.
At the appraisal stage, the Bank was very meticulous and paid special
attention and consideration to the contents and formats of the project
proposal submitted by the Borrower. Every project component was thoroughly
reviewed and discussed with relevant technical and administrative officials
of the MOE, as well as other government authorities. The project's technical,
institutional, economic and financial aspects were comprehensively appraised.
Conditipns to be met before credit effectiveness were minimized; risks
foreseen were identified and suggestions for overcoming the risks were made.
The half-yearly supervision missions of the Bank have proved very useful
and effective for project implementation. Though the duration of the missions
was usually limited to one week, and did not allow Intensive field visits,
particularly of components sited in remote areas, there was useful discussion
during all supervision missions of problems and new ideas, constructive
suggestions and technical issues were raised and better Implementation
strategies were proposed and shared.
There were other important ways in which the Bank helped to support the
Borrower's implementation activities, including the special account facility,
increases in the local disbursement ratio and willingness to Increase the
amount of the credit in response to fluctuations in the USS value of SDR.
On the other hand, the fact that the Bank declined the Borrower's
request to extend the closing date of the project beyond 8 years, as a result
of the Bank's new policy, has caused the cancellation of USS17.7 million. In
:!.e  past,  the  Bank  was  able  to  raiitrair.  Its  overridir..  p:inci;;t of
flexibili,y by adopting a case oy case a:sntsment of proje.t 'mp'cmentaticn.
If this had been followed in this case, and the Bank had'granted at least one
-6-



*                40
further year's extension, it would have permitted the Borrower to complete the
project components under implementation by utilizing the remaining credit
(USS17.7 million) that had not been disbursed, and is now canceled.
The positive side however, is that since the Bank and the Borrower had
mutually and constructively assessed the consequence of not extending the
project life beyond 8 years, they agreed that those project components that
were uncompleced or not started under the Sixth Education Project (totalling
US$10.8 million) would be transferred and completed with the resources under
the Seventh Education Project (Credit 1873 ET). This means thac the major
objectives of Education VI can be fully attained.
F.    Borrover Performance
Ethiopia's experience in project preparation and implementation extends
over quarter of a century. beginning with the First Education Project in 1966.
During this long period of relationship, the Bank has supported the MOE in its
endeavor of institutional capacity building. Thus, when It started preparing
the Sixth Education Project, it had considerable experience  i.7 project
identification, preparation and formulation, and was able to prepare this
project very effectively.
The performance of the Borrower vith regard to project implementation
has been very remarkable, taking into account all those adverse factors
described above. Particularly remarkable was the progress achieved in the last
2 years. Because of the exceptional problems and conditions arising from a
prolonged civil war and other disasters, only 44% of the original credit of
US$70 million had been disbursed by June 1990, the original date for closure
of the project. Tet by October 1993, vhen disbursements finally closed. 97%
of this original figure of US$70 million had been disbursed.
There were certain shortcomings which could have been avoided, but which
served to overstrain the efficiency and effectiveness of the PMO performance,
notably the non-existence of a procurement specialist, the shortage of
accounting staff and the lack of adequate vehicles for site supervision.
Despite the extraordinary negative factors and uncertainties that
affected the implementation of the project, particularly during the first 6
years, the performance of the MOE was commendable and exemplary. During this
difficult time some project components were on the verge of being either
abandoned or deferred to an uncertain period of. time. Yet by the time the
project closed most components were complete and a total of US$68 million (97%
of  the  original  credit  of  CSS70 million)  had  been  disbursed.  It  is
particularly striking that more than half of the total credit was disbursed
in the last 2 years of the project, and less than half in the first 6 years.
G.    Assessment of Overall Outcue
The construction of the major project components has been completed and
most are in use, with the exception of some institutions awaiting outstanding
finlshing works or furniture, and those items transferred to Education VII.
The quality and workmanship of the construction work has proved generally good
and acceptable.   Most of the furniture, equipmenc and other educational
mdte:ial3 have  beenA  fnilly  r:c'c:red  a -d               z :r  ,;e"  .o  the  respective
institutions. cx:_ept   oc some inscits:'oj..s th.e are :t!l - ._-.eivLng Items at
the time of writing this report.
-7-



41
It is too soon to make a conclusive evaluation of the project outcome.
as many of the project components have come into use very recently, while
others  are  still only partially operational.  However,  there are  strong
indications that the project will have significant impact on educational
quality, efficiency and equity, as well as contributing to the expansion and
fair geographic distribution of primary and secondary education, which will
undoubtedly increase the participation of girls at the primary and secondar)x
levels.
The construction of 450 primary and 23 lower secondary schools in the
rural communities is estimated to increase the enrolment by 158,000 and 18,400
respectively, and in the long run this will contribute towards better economic
performance of the most disadvantaged sectors of the society. The new
Technical College at Nazareth, ITT at Assela and the expansion of capacity at
Kotobe College and the Junior Commercial College will help overcome manpower
shortages and the curriculum development activities of NCDC and the 20 APCs
will improve quality.
Thu-s. despite various adversities that affected the project and caused
delays in implementation, the project has been mainly executed as stipulated
in the SAR and DCA. Even the risks foreseen at appraisal, and other new
handicaps that developed during implementation, have been carefully handled
without jeopardizing and distorting the objectives of the project. While there
were both time and cost overruns, as a result of unprecedented constraints
described in detail in the ICR. in general the implementation has triumphed
over many obstacles, and the project's objectives vill be very largely
realized.
H.    Future Overation
The situation in which the project was appraised and the present context
are very different. There have been major policy changes, resulting in
decentralization, democratization and privatization, and a New Education
Policy has been agreed and adopted. These new trends will profoundly affect
the future operation of the project components.
The regional governments will be responsible for operating the new
primary and secondary schools, the TTI, APCs and local radio transmitters and
broadcasting studios. Central government will have responsibility for higher
education, including Kotobe College and the Junior Co=ercial College, and for
national services including the MOE Training Center, NCDC and EMPDA.
This sharing of responsibility for the future operation of the project
components and new facilities will have implications for monitoring, and it
is Important to establish appropriate indicators for monitoring the effects
of the increased capacity and the strengthening of curriculum and staff
development supported by this project. The ICR suggests a vide variety of key
Indicators for future operation and conitoring, including:
-  amount  of budget  allocated by the regions  and communities  to the
project schools;
-  the gross (or net) enrollment ratio, by level and region and enrollment
in the p:o.e;  ;2,h 3;
-  numbers of stude^-.s who drop-out or repeat grades, by level and region;
-8-



42
number of teachers  trained in project institutions and assigned to
primary and secondary schools.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
A number of lessons can be dra.rn from this ICR, regarding project
preparation, imple=entation, the role of the Bank and the Borrower and the
operation of projects in the future. These can be summarized under three
headings:
Lessons for the Bank
I It would be more effective, efficient and flexible if future Bank
support  to  education  in  Ethiopia  could  be  financed  under  a
sector/program approach, rather than the project approach used in the
past. There is now adequate institutional capacity, both in MOE, PMO
and  institutions,  to  implement  projects  with  limited  supervisory
control and without unnecessary bureaucratic procedures.
I The Bank should take into consideration all the factors affiecting a
project  when  considering  time  extensions  and  allow  the  Borrower
sufficient time to complete the project. The determination of the
closing date of a project, and its extensions, should be treated case
by case.                                                              I
I It is commendable that the Bank has been able to increase the local
disbursement ratio  and provide the Borrower with a special account
arrangement, to alleviate the Borrower's financial constraints and
expedite timely implementation of the project. However, there Is a need
to streamline an unwieldy replenishment and disbursement procedure
between PMO and the Disbursement Division/Unit of the Bank.
I The time limit of 6 months after each fiscal year, for the submission
of audit reports, is too short and has proved unrealistic in all six
Bank financed education projects.
I Frequent changes of mission architect should be minimized, to ensure
continuity and effective feedback in projects.
Lessons for the Borrower
I The preparation of a project proposal can be fully undertaken by the
MOE, which has accumulated considerable experience in its seven Bank
financed projects, as well as other projects supported by various Donor
Agencies.
*  The Accounting Section of the PMO. which is charged with financial
control of projects for all Donor Agencies, should be strengthened with
adequately qualified staff to expedite and achieve efficiency in
disbursement and to keep systematic accounting records that facilitate
auditing. The appointment of private auditors should be encouraged,
when Government auditors are over burdened.
t  .he TG^'s new pco;c, of de-entralization ar.d d=vo'jrion '  powers and
rtsponsibilities t: regi_-.al gs)vernments mean3 that more suI,erviscry
and control activ'->es of civil works projects will be undertaken by
-9-



43
the?respective regional and local governments through their architects
and engineers. A manual/ set of guide-lines which has been prepared and
distributed by the MOE should be follcwed both by the Ministry and the
Regional and local Governments to ensure consistency.
On grounds of cost and the relevance of training, as well as problems
of losing fellows who study abroad but do not return after graduation,
it would be preferable to design and encourage more in-country or in-
house short and long-term training to enhance skills, techniques and
attitudes of staff. Such courses should be designed and organized by
the Center for educational Staff Development (CESD) of the MOE and the
Graduate School of Addis Ababa University.
*  More  cost  effective  and  efficient  procurement  and  delivery  of
furniture, equipment, and educational materials should be encouraged by
greater use of 'package procurement", limited international bidding
(LIB), international shopping (IS) and other changes in procurement
procedures.
Lessons for the Future Ooeration of the Project
The future operation of the facilities financed by the project will
depend on the capacity of regional and local governments, supplemented
by  community  support  and  involvement,  to  provide  the  necessary
resources. Because of the relative disadvantage and poverty of many of
these regions and communities they may need support from the central
government,  in  terms  of  both  financial  transfers  and  technical
assistance.
It is essential that adequate provision should be made, in terms of
both finance and manpower, for the proper maintenance and repair of
equipment and facilities procured under the project, in order to
protect  the  country's  investment  and  ensure  efficient  and  cost
effective utilization in the future.
-10-



i



34'                 36'                  38    /              40                   42                  44                   46                   48
ETHIOPIA
-16'                                             f      ERITREA                          SEA                                                                                   16-
0    SELECTED TOWNS
!®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
(                                                                        -         STATE/REGION (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
- /\*-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SUDAN  '                ~The State/Region nomes are per Article 47
- 14°          SUDAN                           rTIGPAY                                                                    of the Constitution of Ethiopio                      140_-
t             \    ~~~~~~~~MEKELE      
GULF OF
- 12'                           @   \TtA                                                 AFAR                                                      ADEN                       12-
g  >               ~~~~~~~AMHARA              )                 DJI B'OTI
KOMBOLCHA f2ake Ab/
t  OS f { (RKO
10,                JE                                                                                                             lo--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i P                          ~~~~ADDI     e                  AA  
NEKEMPTI             ABABA                            HARAF601 
o s* 2 G~~~~~~~~ELEMSO  '
r.5         %  ~METU                      7-  
-8°   i GAMBELLA                                             ,ASSELA
JIMA0                  L.-. ake Ziway  ,82. 
\                   cflf8ALS  ~~~~~~~~KOFIf=ELC    OROMA/
N                                                                                                                          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The boundories. colors,      SEP                                              ROBE                              SOMALI                          ,/        SOM.ALIA
denominations and any                                                                                     ,                                                                 4f
-    other inforrmotion shw         mthln4n)Lw                                                           -5                                                                   6'-
on this map  do  not    .
imply, on the port of    \
The World Bank Group,L
any judgment on the legal
status of any territory                                MO
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.D    -
KILOMETERS 0   50  100 150 200 250 300 350 400
C.4)                                                                                                                                                                               4]
I                                  KEOYA                                                                                          MILES 0      50     100'   150    200    250   4      ..
UGANDA                                ' TURKANA 642                                                                     44'                  46'                  480












