Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C iA /S,4r-
Repot No. 4948a-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
ETHIOPIA
August 8, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
I This document bas a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may  Ot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Birr
US$1.00                =         Birr 2.07
US$0.483               =         Birr 1.00
GEOGRAPHICAL DIVISIONS
Region: (16, including Addis Ababa and one special
administrative unit)
Awraja: (106)
Wereda: (588)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF        -  African Development Fund
APC        -  Awraja Pedagogical Center
CHE        -  Commission for Higher Education
CPSC       -  Central Planning Supreme Council
CSTC       -  Community Skill Training Center
DEMMF      -  Department of Educational Mass M4edia
EMPDA      -  Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
EWWCA      -  Ethiopian Water Works Construction Authority
HSS        -  Higher Secondary School
IDA        -  International Development Association
TCC        -  Junior College of Commerce
Kebele     -  Urban Dwellers Association
LSS        -  Lower Secondary School
MOE        -  Ministry of Education
NCDC       -  National Curriculum Development Center
NLCCC      -  National Literacy Campai-n Coordinating Committee
NSS        -  National Sample Survey
PMfO       -  Project Management Office
PPAR       -  Project Performance Audit Report
PPF        -  Project Preparation Facility
SCMS       -  School Construction and Maintenance Service
SIDA       -  Swedish International Development Agency
SOE        -  Statement of Expenditures
SSEPC      -  School Science Equipment Production Center
TTI        -  Teacher Training Institute (Primary Level)
TYPP       -  Ten Year Perspective Plan
UPE        -  Universal Primary Education
Zemetcha   -  Development Through Cooperation Campaign
GOVERLNMfENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SIXT EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting . ..................................  1
Development Objectives . ..................................  1
Manpower and Employment ...................................   2
Recent Developments and Prospects ...........................  3
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview .................................                       3
Prevailing Conditions .     ..................................  4
The Role of the Bank in Education Development ..............  . 7
Female Participation ......................                     9
Role of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector ...........      9
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives ..................................................  10
Direct Education Component       ...................................  11
Quality Improvement Component    ...............................  13
Support Service Component .................................... 15
Summary of Technical Assistance Activities ........ ..........  17
Environmental Impact         .................... 17
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost           ............. 18
Financial Plan                       ..     20
This report is based on the finding£ of an appraisal mission which visited
Ethiopia in July 1983. The mission consisted of Messrs. R. M. Durstine
(Educator, Mission Leader), J. C. Laederach (Architect), S. Futagami (Media
Specialist), Mesdames R. G. Brandenburg (Economist) and A. Vaughn
(Technical Assistance Officer), and Messrs. J. S. Harris (Technical Teacher
Trainer, Consultant) and R. W. Lewis (Accounting Systems Specialist,
Consultant).
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theirofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation ........................................ 20
Procurement . . ........... so..* ... Poo*...........  ... ..... 23
Disbursement ....................................... 24
Auditing ..... ......................................   25
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits      ........................................ 26
Risks ............................................... ........ 26
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................... 27
ANNEX I - Education Tables and Charts
Table 1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Primary Level Enrollments, Teachers, Schools
3.  Secondary Level Enrollments, Teachers, Schools
4.  Rates of Participation in Schooling
5.  Listing of Post-Secondary Institutions
6.  Post-Secondary Education Enrollments and Graduates
7.  Indicative Projections of Student Enrollments and Teacher
Requirements
8.  Qualitative Measures of Education System Performance
9.  Promotion, Repetition and Dropout Rates, Primary Schools
10.  Examination Results at the End of Grades 6, 8 and 12
11.  Qualification Level of Teachers
12.  Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Government Expenditure and
Education Expenditure
13.  Unit Expenditures on Education
Chart 1.  Ministry of Education Organization Chart
2.  Commission for Higher Education Organization Chart
3.  Education Enrollment Pyramid - 1981/82
4.  Structure of the Formal Education System
ANNEX  II -  Educational Services by Level and Type
ANNEX III -  Criteria for Selection of Location for Primary Schools,
Secondary Schools and Awraja Pedagogical Centers
ANNEX  IV -  Summary of Specialist Services and Studies
ANNEX   V -  Project Cost and Schedules
Table 1.     Project Cost Summary
2.     Smmary Accounts Cost Summary
3.     Summary Account by Project Component
4.     Implementation Schedule
5.     Indicators of Project Implementation
6.     Schedule of Disbursement
ANNEX VI  -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
MAP IBRD No. 18058-ETEIOPIA



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:       Ethiopia
Amount:         SDR 67.3 milllon (US$70.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Education
Terms:          Standard
Project
Objectives
and-
Description:    The proposed project will support the Government's educational
objectives whIch are designed to alleviate the shortages of
trained manpower that are pressing constraints on its ability to
Implement investment programs necessary to achieve economy-wide
growth over the long term, and also to Improve the quality and
equity of the educational system. In this respect, the proposed
project will expand the capacity, effectiveness and geographical
equity of primary and lower secondary schools, Improve the
quality of education primarily through curriculum development
and training programs, and strengthen educational support
services.
Risks:          Based on past experience with education projects in Ethiopia,
the rlsks are expected to be minimal. The principal risks
relate to possible delays in the provisLon of adequate staff to
fully utilize the facilities to be provided under the project,
and to possible delays in the construction of primary schools
and of buildlng maintenance due to a shortage of qualified
technical and managerial staff. To help reduce these risks, the
Government has prepared plans satisfactory to the Association
for staffing the facilities, and the project will provide for
necessary technical assistance.



-~1 -
Zstisated Project Costs:
USS Million
Local     Foreign     Total
COMPONE!NT                                 - 
A.  Direct Education                      34.3        34.0        68.3
B. Quality Improvement                     4.2         4.4         8.6
C.  Support Services                       2.4         4.0         6.4
Total Baseline Cost                   40.9        42.4       83.3
Physical Contingencies                3.6         4.1        7.7
Price Contingencies                   9.4         9.2       18.6
Total Project Cost                        53.9        55.7       109.6
Taxes and Duties                          11.9         -          11.9
Total Project Cost (net of taxes and
duties)                               42.0         55.7       97.7
Financing Plan:                                  USS million
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                                14.3        55.7       70.0
Government of Ethiopia                    39.6         -         39.6
TOTAL                                     53.9        55.7      109.6
Eatimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year            FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual:                     2.0    10.0    17.0    17.0    13.0    11.0
Cumulative:                 2.0    12.0    29.0    46.0    59.0    70.0
Rate of Return:            Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4948a-ET, dated August 8, 1984.



ETHIOPIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA - 1981/82
GENERAL - 1982
Area                                                   1.2 million km2
Population                                            32.8 million
- Rural                                               28.1 million (86%)
- Urban                                                4.7 million (14%)
Population Growth Rate                                 2.5% p.a.
Employment                                            10.4 million
- Modern Sector                                        0.4 million (4%)
Adult Literacy Rate                                   53%
Per Capita Income                                     US$140
EDUCATION (1981/82)
Gov't Schools      All Schools
Enrollment in Primary Schools                   2,051,100         2,374,400
(Grades 1-6)
- as a percentage of the 7-12 age group             40.7%              47.1%
Enrollment in Lower Secondary Schools             219,800           248,700
(Grades 7-8)
- as percentage of the 13-14 age group              14.4%              16.4%
Enrollment in Higher Secondary Schools            231,900           238,500
(Grades 9-12)
- as a percentage of the 15-18 age group             8.4%              8.6%
Academic Year                                         September - July
EDUCATION FINANCE (1981/82)
Government Expenditure on Education as a
Percentage of Total Government Expenditure         11.1%
Gcvernment Expenditure on Education as a
Percentage of GDP                                   2.9%
Recurrent Education Expenditure as a Percentage
of Total Government Recurrent Expenditure          13.2%
- of which Ministry of Education                    10.7%
- of which Higher Education                          2.5%
Capital Education Expenditure as a Percentage
of Total Government Capital Expenditure             6.1Z



I. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Ethiopia, with a population estimated at 32.8 million in 1982 and
a land area of 1.2 million km2, is the third most populous country in
Africa. The central part is plateau about 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea
level. The rest consists of a vast complex of mountains and plateaus,
rising from plains in the east and cut diagonally northeast to southwest by
the Great Rift Valley. The rugged terrain is a serious obstacle to
economic development. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy,
contributing about 50% of GDP, 90% of exports and 85% of employment.
1.02      No demographic census has ever been carried out in Ethiopia.  The
best information about population comes mainly from the National Sample
Survey Second Round (NSS II) of 1969-1971, which covered over 80% of the
population (excluding Eritrea and nomadic areas). A national census Is now
being prepared and enumeration will take place in 1984, so the demographic
profile of the labor force can as yet only be assessed from the NSS II and
various multipurpose national sample surveys. Estimates made in the course
of preparing the Ten Year Perspective Plan (TYPP) placed the economically
active population in mid-1982 at about 12.4 million, of which 10.4 million
were classified as employed with approximately 0.4 million of those in the
to the Government's economic and social objectives modern
sector.l/ The residue was classified as either unemployed and seeking work
or underemployed. It is generally believed that there is considerable
underemployment among agricultural workers, and that unemployment in urban
centers may be as much as 25% of the labor force, particularly in the under
25 age group with little or no work experience.
Development Objectives
1.03      Since the revolution in 1974 there have been marked changes in
the country's political and economic structures and institutions. Until
1974, the Government was highly centralized, but subsequently a number of
reforms were introduced to strengthen regional and local administration.
Ethiopia is divided into 16 administrative regions (including Addis Ababa),
106 awrajas and 588 weredas. In 1975 the Government redistributed rural
and urban property. In the rural sector former commercial farms were
nationalized, and the sale of land was prohibited. In addition, the
Government encouraged the organization of Peasant Associations, about 50 in
each wereda. These, about 25,000 of which have been created to date, form
the nucleus of local government. In conjuction with Government's rural
1/ 10.6% of modern sector employment is in agriculture, mining and
quarrying, 22.9% in industry, and 66.5% in services.



policy, a proclamation in 1975 set forth Government ownership of urban
lands and provided for the establishment of urbar dwellers' associations
(kebeles). These have become focal points for development activities and
political participation in urban areas. In 1975, all private primary and
secondary schools were transferred to public ownership and operation. The
following year, another proclamation provided the legal framework for
community representative management committees to administer all schools.
1.04      Despite the Government's efforts toward development, including
prudent financial management in recent years, the country's economic growth
has been rather slow. However, since the second half of 1978, when the
Government achieved substantial control over the security situation and was
able to turn its attention to revitalizing the economy, Ethiopia has made
significant progress in overcoming economic disruptions caused by
institutional changes and military hostilities. Since 1979, several
Development Through Cooperation Campaigns (Zemetchas) have aimed at raising
agricultural and industrial output and improving the marketing and
distribution system. GDP grew at about 5.3 percent and 5.6 percent in real
terms during the years 1978/79 and 1979/80 respectively. Major
contributions to this growth performance came from agriculture. This short
but substantial improvement suffered a setback in 1980/81 and 1981/82. The
growth of real GDP slowed down to 3.2 percent and 2.5 percent respectively
during these years, owing largely to the drought and to the low level of
total investment as a consequence of constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. The annual development campaigns are prepared by the
Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC), which supervises the achievement
of the quantitative targets for production, investment and financial
operations in the public sector, and the establishment of prices according
to the Government's economic and social objectives.
Manpower and Employment
1.05      Modern Sector.  Although reliable information on the demand for
and supply of skilled manpower is not available, evidence of the types of
skills in short supply may be inferred from discussions with Government
officials and from information on the requests submitted by Government
ministries and public and semi-public corporations over the last three
years. At the professional level, there are skill shortages of personnel
in virtually every field, most particularly of electrical engineers,
accounLants, economists, administrators, biologists and chemists. Although
the supply situation with respect to engineers has improved since 1979/80,
only about 40%, 28%, and 43% of the demands for civil, electrical and
mechanical engineers respectively were met in 1981/82.
1.06      There is a persistent shortage of accountants.  For example, in
1978/79, out of the total request for accountants, only 21Z of the number
required were available for recruitment (paragraph 2.14).
1.07      Rural Sector.  In the rural sector there is little data which
links employment to education. However, Ethiopia's development strategy
includes a commitment to invest in rural areas and to expand and improve
specialized training programs for agriculture, cooperatives, local



- 3 -
administration and health services. The level of education in rural areas
has been meager, and the educational profile of the rural population is
concentrated low on the primary school scale. The overall picture of rural
employment indicates about 13 million peasant households organized within
the peasant associations, service cooperatives and producers cooperatives.
A recent survey estimates about 10,500 persons employed on state farms.
Settlement schemes for about 50,000 persons also provide opportunities for
employment. Rural cottage and handicraft industries contribute to
employment, though largely on a supplementary or seasonal basis.
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.08      The economic structure of the population has undergone
substantial changes. Rural dwellers have been organized into peasant
associations, and there has been steady growth of cooperative
organizations. Non-farm rural employment is also growing through
artisans'cooperatives. In the modern sector, large scalc industrial
concerns with more than 50 employees increased from 61 in 1961 to 228 in
1981. The range of modern sector occupations has grown significantly, and
employment of expatriates has been much reduced. Total modern sector
employment is now about 0.4 million, and the participation of women has
increased.
1.09      The modern sector has been transformed from a privately owned
operation to a largely public system, although it is the Government's
policy to allow the expansion of both private and public enterprises.
The Government has taken a number of steps since late 1982 to arrest the
deteriorating economic situation. First, the planning focus was shifted
from a ten-year perspective to the short term, the aim being to prepare
two- and three-year public investment programs. More recently, the
Covernment has emphasized revitalizing agriculture and the need to restore
confidence among private entrepreneurs in small scale industry, thus
drawing them into the mainstream of development. The need to attract
foreign investment has been recognized, and legislation passed to encourage
it regarding establishment of joint ventures. Finally, there have been
radical changes in the labor and employment markets. First, an excess of
demand became an excess of supply of persons with secondary level
education, which is viewed by the Government as a temporary problem of
"mismatch".  Second, Ethiopia has experienced an upward movement of
educational and other qualifications through the levels of employment, as
the supply of manpower has increased in relation to demand.
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      Since 1974 the Government has undertaken continued development of
educational services covering all levels from basic through university
education (Annex I, Tables 2,3) including an extensive program of adult
literacy and skill training. Enrollment ratios in primary, lower secondary
and higher secondary schools grew from 19%, 8% and 3X in 1973/74 to 47Z,
16% and almost 9% respectively in 1981/82 (Annex I, Table 4). Much effort



- 4 -
was made in that period to provide basic education equitably over all parts
of the country. Peasant and urban dwellers associations have been
mobilized to assist the organization, construction and operation of many
aspects of educatlon and training. The above enrollment ratios, however,
even though substantial Improvements over the past, remain among the lowest
in the region.
2.02      Although the next ten-year development plan ls stlll In the
process of review by the Government, its overall objectives are known to
lnclude universalization and equity in the provlslon of basic education,
combined with adjusting enrollments at the subsequent levels to national
manpower development needs. The plan Is expected to take reallatic account
of existing financial constraints on the rate of educational development.
The Government also recognizes that rapld quantltative expansion has been
achieved partly at the expense of quallty and is taking measures toward
qualitative improvements through curriculum development (paragraph 3.13)
educational materials production (paragraphs 3.03, 3.18, 3.21) and teacher
trainlng (paragraphs 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.11, 3.12).
Prevailing Conditions
2.03      Government Policies for Education.  The expected major policies
and strategies for development of education in Ethiopia under the next
ten-year plan are: promote national welfare and Improvement of the living
conditions of the population; facilitate the most rapid rate of development
feasible In provision of educatlonal services; eradicate illiteracy;
develop a system of polytechnic education through grade 6 and eventually
through grade 8; create conditions of geographic equity In access to
educational services; strengthen the teaching of science and technology,
linking theory to practice In a practical orientation to the world of work;
expand training facilities for middle level technical and scientific
manpower; provide continulng education to assure the dlrect Impact of
education on development and on the welfare of the people; maintain quality
through appropriate support services, systems of evaluatlon and In-service
training; and promote self-reliance and productivity within educational
lnstltutions and throughout the education system as a whole.
2.04      The objectives listed above are conslstent with the path of
development which has been established by the Government for education in
recent years. This consists of a broad response to the requirements for
educational development at all levels. The resulting program, though
ambitious in its simultaneous attention to a wlde range of urgent
development Issues, nevertheless represents a comprehensive overall
response to those issues, with which the Association is in basic agreement,
and which has been assisted by previous education projects. The problems
of management, coordination and decreased quality which naturally arise
under such conditions are expected to be transitory in nature, and the
Ministry of Education (MOE) has undertaken also to address them as part of
its total education sector development program.



- 5 -
2.05      Structure of the Education System.  The system of formal
education consists of a six grade primary cycle (ages 7 through 12), a four
grade lower secondary cycle (ages 13 through 16) and a two-grade higher
secondary cycle (ages 17 and 18) (Annex I, Charts 1 and 2). (This 6-4-2
system, which in now under development, has evolved from an older 6-2-4
system, and the tables of Annex I reflect the old structure.) Teacher
training is provided in support of this general education system. A small
but growing number technical and vocational schools exist as well, as do
two universities and a system of junior colleges (Annex I, Tables 5, 6). A
brief summary of this formal education system is given in Annex II.
2.06      Economic and Social Demand.  It is the Government's plan to
establish universal primary education (UPE) for the first six grades as
soon as practically feasible (paragraph 3.03). This will not be approached
within the next ten-year plan period, for which a primary school enrollment
of 5,248,000 is projected for 1993/94 (Annex I, Table 7). This enrollment
implies a 67X enrollment ratio, based on the Bank's most probable case
scenario for population growth, and UPE by about 2010. With declining
fertility, this date might be advanced to 2005. On the longer term, eight
grades of education are the eventual target for UPE. Beyond eighth grade,
the intention is to provide education and training only in direct response
to labor market requirements.   Though these have not yet been explicitly
determined, they are expected to be extensive and complex, and to grow
rapidly as the economic development of Ethiopia progresses. That
development will also be served by the steps toward UPE, because an
inceasingly modern society will require higher basic skills of its populace
generally.
2.07      Quality of Education.  Many qualitative aspects of education have
suffered in the course of quantitative expansion (Annex I, Tables
8, 9, 10, 11). Rapid growth of educational opportunities in the rural
areas has often led to the use of inferior physical facilities. The trend
toward basic schooling for all has brought large numbers of students into
the system and has increased average class size significantly-from 46 in
1973/74 to 63 in 1981/82 at the primary level. Enrollment growth has
increased the demand for teachers, so that unqualified teachers in primary
schools now number more than 30%. The MOE is undertaking to resolve these
problems by a number of means. Provisions for schools (paragraphs 3.03.
3.04, 3.08) and teacher training programs (paragraphs 3.05, 3.06, 3.07)
continue to be given priority emphasis. Upgrading of teachers already in
service is also provided for (paragraphs 3.05, 3.11, 3.12). The
preparation of new curricula, materials and teaching methods designed to
meet the country's developmental needs is being carried out in a
coordinated way (paragraphs 3.03, 3.13, 3.18).
2.08      Curriculum Development and Instructional Methods.  Development of
new curricula and instructional materials has been an ongoing process since
the 1974 revolution. It is likely to continue into the indefinite future,
as materials for all subject areas and levels of primary and secondary
school are written, tested, revised, and entered into general use according
to a phased program. At present, 70 Ethiopian educators working on 19
subject-area panels prepare textbooks and related materials in Amharic,



-6-
using contents and approaches designed to fit the needs of students. These
materials are tested in 70  experimental schools  prior to revision and
production for general use (paragraph 3.13).
2.09      A central aim of the curriculum development effort is to convert
to a system of referred to by the MOE as polytechnic education, in which
all studies would have a practical orientation to the extent possible.
This would include not only instruction in manual skills, but also an
applied problem-solving orientation wherever possible. This approach is
intended for eventual general application in grades 1 through 8, and
application in more specialized forms in grades 9 through 12. It is
consistent with the country's overall development needs and is being
incorporated in the curriculum development support provided under IDA
projects.
2.10      Pre-service teacher training (paragraphs 3.05, 3.06, 3.07) is
adapted to the needs of the new curricula, according to projected
enrollment levels (Annex I, Table 7). Teachers already in service are
trained to use the new curriculum materials in summer vacation workshops at
the primary teacher training institutes (TTI) (paragraph 3.05) and by
in-service courses at the awraja pedagogical centers (APC) (paragraph
3.11).   Some 7,500 participants had taken part in the workshops from 1977
through 1982/83. Over 10,000 teachers and school directors received short
courses at the APCs in the same period.
2.11      Management, Administration and Finance.  All aspects of operation
of the education system at the primary and secondary levels, including
technical/vocational and adult education, are the responsibility of the MOE
(Annex I, Chart 3).  The Ministry's brief includes: construction,
maintenance and operation of school facilities; provision of teachers,
headmasters and inspectors; preparation and/or provision of curricula,
books, equipment and supplies; and overall system planning, management,
staff training and budgeting. Increased operational efficiency and
sensitivity to local needs are being sought through decentralization of
certain administrative functions to the regional and awraja levels. The
regional education officers now have full responsibility for implementation
of regional budgets, for all aspects of personnel management and for
education statistics collection. The awraja education offices assist in
some of these tasks, form a link with community organizations and, through
the APCs, provide for training of school staff and other educational
personnel at the local level (paragraph 3.11).
2.12      Responsibility for coordination and development of post-secondary
education rests with the Commission for Higher Education (CHE), a semi-
autonomous body which is governed by a Higher Education Council chaired by
the Minister of Education (Annex I, Chart 4). The CHE has direct executive
control over six institutions and coordination functions for the
universities and other post-secondary institutions. The CHE is still in
the process of developing the capabilities needed to carry out its varied
and complex responsibilities (paragraph 3.09).



2.13      The cost of operating the education system is primarily the
responsibility of the central Government, though local resources are used
in partial support of literacy, skill training and primary education
programs. Recurrent expenditure on education in 1981/82 amounted to 13.2%
of the Government total for recurrent expenditures. Teacher salaries,
which are in line with other civil service salaries, have been frozen since
1975. As a result of the salary freeze and domestic inflation, real
earnings of professional and technical personnel in the public sector have
been considerably eroded in the past few years, despite salary increments
through promotions. While this salary freeze has led to a reduction in
income disparities and has contributed towards containing inflation, it may
also have caused negative effects in terms of loss of motivation and lack
of incentives for skilled manpower. The Wage Board has been set up by the
Government to look into these matters but has not finalized its
recommendations as yet. Capital expenditures were 6.1% of the
corresponding Government total. Education used 11.1% of the Government's
funds overall, a level which is among the lowest in the region. Total
expenditure on education amounted to 2.9% of GDP (Annex I, Table 12). The
recurrent cost of UPE for grades 1 through 6 alone would, however, call for
an addition of more than 8% to Government recurrent expenditure at present
unit cost levels (Annex I, Table 13), so that achievement of that goal
would represent a heavy financial burden and is not expected to be
accomplished in the near future (paragraph 2.06).
2.14      Accountancy Training.  Because of the importance of properly
maintained and audited accounts to implementation of development projects,
provision of trained accounting personnel at all levels is a major concern
to the Gcvernment (paragraph 1.06). Training at the bookkeeper level is
provided in some secondary schools. Diploma programs for accountants are
given by the Junior College of Commerce (JCC) (paragraph 3.08) and by the
extension program of the University of Addis Ababa. Degree programs are
offered at the Universities of Addis Ababa and Asmara.
The Role of the Bank in Education Development
2.15       IDA Education Projects.  The Association has provided support to
five education projects in Ethiopia. The first, signed in 1966 and
completed in 1972, assisted the expansion of secondary, technical and
teacher education and the diversification of curricula at various levels.
The second, signed in 1971 and completed in 1979, helped teacher and
agricultural education, with a modest expansion of secondary education
while improving its geographical distribution and quality. The third,
signed in 1973 and completed in 1980, provided assistance to rural
education, the teaching of science and the production of textbooks and
instructional materials.  The fourth, signed in 1975 and completed in 1981,
assisted implementation of a program for expansion of basic and nonformal
education, training of specialized rural development personnel and the
consolidation of teaching of social sciences at the university.
2.16       The First Education Project (Credit 84-ET for US$7.2 million)
was implemented reasonably well, although the closing date was postponed 18
months. Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 620, dated February
1975, concluded that its quantitative targets were met or surpassed, but



- 8 -
that in many project schools the new curricula had been only partially
introduced. Equitable access to schools was a less important criterion at
the time, and most of the schools were placed in urban or semi-urban
areas. In the Second Education Project (Credit 243-ET for US$9.5 million),
the project content was modified using savings from technical assistance to
expand and re-equip workshops and science facilities in 31 existing
secondary schools, resulting in a three-year delay of the Closing Date.
PPAR No. 3257, dated December 1980, concluded that the project had met or
exceeded its quantitative goals, but that qualitative progress had been
hampered by trained teacher shortages and delays in provision of equipment
to schools. Implementation took over eight years, owing mainly to
dislocations during and following the revolution and to changes in project
content. Implementation of the Third Education Project (Credit 417-ET for
US$10 million) was completed in December 1980. In it, the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church Training Center was deleted, and 180 Community Skill
Training Centers (CSTC) were provided instead. This revision, inter alia,
delayed the project by two years. PPAR No. 4571, dated June 1983,
concluded that the project was generally satisfactory. The Fourth
Education Project (Credit 553-ET for US$23 million) achieved its objectives
of expanding education and providing a maore balanced distribution of
educational opportunities, based on a new curriculum, especially in rural
areas, according to the Project Completion Report issued in March 1983.
Other components of the project reinforced this thrust towards rural
development. The construction of the College of Social Sciences, following
the construction of the College of Science under the Third Education
Project, greatly strengthened the University of Addis Ababa. No PPAR Has
yet been issued.
2.17       The Fifth Education Project (Credit 1141-ET for US$35 million
equivalent) was signed in June 1981. It is designed to improve the quality
and relevance of education, to increase school enrollment and adult
literacy, to ensure balanced educational opportunities and to provide high
level manpower for veterinary medicine. This project is progressing with
no major problems. Though achievement of construction targets is somewhat
behind, it is expected that the slippage will be made up. An important
accomplishment has been an improved accounting system established in the
Project Management Office (PMO). It is expected that the project will be
successfully completed on schedule, in September 1985. The support of the
Association for educational development accords with the overall strategy
of assisting the Government to develop the manpower needed to improve the
efficiency and productivity of both the public and the private sectors, and
to lay the basis for long-term, economy-wide growth.
2.18       Lessons Learned.  Experience from the implementation of past IDA
supported education projects has special importance for appropriate design
and implementation of later projects. Principal among these lessons are:
(a) the need to balance supply of educational facilities with the
prospective availability of properly trained teachers; (b) the importance
of flexibility in the location of schools and in other details of
implementation, so as to respond to the needs of the borrower while
complying with the requirements of the Association; (c) the need to
encourage motivation and involvement of the local population in the
development, support and use of new educational facilities; (d) the



essential role of an adequate school maintenance system; and (e) the
difficulties in implementation and supervision in a multi-faceted project
involving various ministries and implementing agencies. All of the above
points have been given appropriate attention in design of the proposed
project.
2.19       Lending Strategy for the Education Sector.  The Association has
made major contributions to policy formation, institution building and
system development for the education sector in Ethiopia. The first sector
review, completed in 1972, which was supported by the Association under the
Second Education Project, encouraged the Government to evaluate its
educational programs and actively seek a sound educational policy, whereby
overall equity of school access and relevance to the country's
socio-economic needs could be promoted. The Association has supported the
resulting strategy of balanced development of education through provision
of expanded physical facilities, training of personnel and development of
measures to improve instructional quality. In the latter regard, the IDA
strategy has been to fill gaps in the Government's program through support
for manpower studies (currently being carried out), education planning,
curriculum development and the production of teaching aids. The concurrent
development by the Government of a managerial and planning infrastructure
has enabled it to formulate and execute coherent programs of educational
development. Another sector review is currently being carried out.
Female Participation
2.20      Female participation in the formal education system in 1981/82
was as follows: at the primary level females represented about 35% of the
total enrollment, at junior secondary level 36% and at the senior secondary
33%. The MOE strongly encourages women to enter TTIs, and that policy has
resulted in increasing female participation from about 5% to over 30% in
the last ten years. It is expected that the provision of student places at
primary, secondary and post secondary institutions under the proposed
project will increase the female participation rate, along with overall
quality improvement. Female employment in Ethiopia has also made progress
over the last ten years. Women's employment at the technical/professional
level has increased from 11% of total female employment to 18%, clerical
from 14% to 22% and sales 6% to 13%. While total employment has increased
42% over the ten-year period, female employment has increased 172%. This
increased participation in the labor force can be related to parallel
increases in the enrollment of girls in the education system. Female
enrollment in the period 1975-1982 in primary and junior secondary schools
grew at about 15% p.a. and in senior secondary schools at 18% p.a.
Role of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector
2.21      The Bank Group has provided the major assistance to Ethiopia in
development of their education sector in the past ten years. Other donors,
notably UNDP and UN specialized agencies (i.e., UNICEF, UNFPA, and Unesco),
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics (USSR), German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the
European Economic Community (EEC), are also continuing their assistance.
Major areas of support are: (a) UNDP - training of primary and secondary



- 10 -
school teachers, production of primary school science equipment and
technical assistance to basic education; (b) UNICEF - support to
development and implementation of new primary curriculum materials,
upgrading of primary school teachers and provision of technical and
material assistance to basic education; (c) UNFPA - financial and material
assistance to the Mother and Child Health Program through the National
Literacy Campaign and other adult education programs; (d) Unesco - study
grants and provision of printing paper for literacy programs; (e) SIDA -
materials for community self-help primary school construction (paragraph
3.03), paper and technical assistance for project implementation;   (f)
USSR - scholarships, equipment and teacher assistance to polytechnic
education and equipment for vocational schools; (g) GDR - experts for
curriculum planning services, inspection, and instructors for teacher
training institutes; and (h) EEC - construction of APCs, in-service
programs for secondary school technical/vocational teachers, development of
literacy courses, and support for correspondence education. The Planning
Services office of the MOE has been efficiently coordinating donor
assistance for the education sector in collaboration with the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). This coordination has built on the strengths and interests
of the various donor agencies. IDA support to the education sector has
interfaced with the activities of other donors particularly in primary
school and APC construction, and in curriculum development.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      Shortages of trained manpower severely constrain Ethiopia's
development efforts and its ability to implement the investment programs
necessary to achieve economy-wide growth over the long term. Although the
Government has achieved much in recent years, enrollment ratios at all
levels of education are still very low in comparison with those in other
countries at a comparable stage of development. In addition, educational
opportunities have been skewed towards the urban populace, curricula have
not yet fully adapted to the country's cultural and economic needs, and the
availability of qualified teachers has fallen short of needs. The proposed
project would continue the efforts being made under the Fifth Education
Project (paragraph 2.17) to correct these deficiencies, to improve the
quality and equity of the education system, and to expand educational
opportunities particularly at the primary and secondary school levels. It
would respond to a variety of requirements within the Government's
stratgegy for education and manpower development (paragraph 2.03) and take
account of the activities of the many other donors involved in the sector.
In support of formal education development, the project will include: (a) a
direct education component aimed at expanding the capacity, effectiveness
and geographical equity of primary and lower secondary schools, together
with the training of teachers for those schools; (b) a quality improvement
component emphasizing improvement of the quality of educational services
through curriculum development, staff training and supervision, and mass
media applications; and {c) a support service component to increase
operational effectiveness by strengthening essential support services.



- 11 -
Direct Education Component
3.02      Support to the expansion and improved geographical equity of
basic education facilities would be furnished through provision for 450
primary schools and 30 new lower secondary schools (LSS), 6,000 primary
school science kits, instructional equipment for seven higher secondary
schools (HSS) and water supply for 20 secondary schools. Expansion of
teacher training capacity would be assisted by an additional TTI and one
secondary technical teacher training college, as well as by improvements to
an existing secondary teacher training college and the Junior College of
Commerce, and by technical assistance to strengthen the CHE.
3.03      Primary Schools.  The proposed project would provide for 450
additional units of four-classroom primary schools, which would increase
enrollment capacity by about 158,000 students, based on a 75% level of
double shifting. The schools would form part of the Government's program
of achieving UPE, now estimated by the MO0E for early in the next century
(paragraph 2.06). School construction toward that objective has been
carried out both through community self-help, using building materials
supplied by the SIDA, and by construction using Government resources under
past IDA projects. The IDA funded schools have been built in remote rural
areas where self-help construction was deemed not feasible. This division
of effort would continue in the proposed project. Locations of project
schools would be selected according to agreed criteria given in Annex III.
Support would also be provided for 6,000 primary school science kits by the
Schools Science Equipment Production Center (SSEPC). Such kits are already
in production by the SSEPC, based on thoroughly prepared and tested
designs. The proposed project assistance would make a substantial advance
toward the eventual goal of one kit for each primary school.
3.04      Secondary Schools.  The proposed project would include 30 new
LSS, toward the goal of one LSS in each wereda. The increased LSS capacity
would be some 24,000 students based on 63% double shifting, and the
location of these schools would be determined in accordance with agreed
criteria so as to increase equity of access (Annex III). Under the double
shift plan, students spend 216 days annually in school or working on
community projects. The aim is to provide them with practical experience,
to ensure better utilization of facilities, and to allow student and
teacher participation in economic development campaigns. The schools would
each consist of nine classrooms, administrative space, and a service module
incorporating facilities and equipment for a science laboratory, a metal
and wood workshop, an electricity workshop, a home economics unit, a
library and related facilities. In addition, quality improvement for
higher secondary education would be supported through provision of
instructional equipment to seven new and existing HSS in selected urban
areas. Furthermore, many existing and planned secondary schools lack the
adequate water supply which is essential to their effective operation. The
proposed project would thus include provisions for water supply to 20
secondary schools (well drilling or connections to town water lines, pumps
and water storage tanks), according to a list to be supplied by the
Government and agreed by the Association.



- 12 -
3.05      Teacher Training.  The proposed project would provide assistance
to: (a) primary teacher training; (b) lower secondary teacher training
(paragraph 3.06) and (c) productive technology teacher training (paragraph
3.07). One new primary teacher training institute would be provided, with
an enrollment capacity of about 600. The projected 600 annual graduates of
the ten-month course would help meet the critical need for primary school
teachers. The TTI facilities would also be used for inservice training
programs during the two-month summer vacation, to upgrade untrained
teachers, supervisors and directors. Boarding facilities would be provided
for the entire student body. Simple and basic housing facilities for about
50X of the staff of the proposed TTI would also be included. A site at
Assela in the region of Arsi has been chosen by the Government for this new
institution (paragraph 5.09).
3.06      The Kotobe College of Teacher Education, located on the outskirts
of Addis Ababa, is the only institution presently devoted solely to
training teachers for the LSS. A consistently high demand for these
teachers is indicated by Annex I, Table 11. Most of the college buildings
are over 30 years old, with an enrollment of 1,000 in facilities designed
for 700, and in great need of modernization. Limited expansion and
improvements under the proposed project would make it better able to
accommodate its enrollment and would increase productivity from the present
level of about 350 graduates yearly through the reduction in drop-out
resulting from improved instructional conditions. Emphasis would be on
upgrading the training of language, physical education and mathematics
teachers. The component would include civil works, equipment and
furniture.
3.07      The proposed project would provide for a new productive
technology teacher training college, which would train teachers in
practical subjects for the secondary level. It would be located at
Nazreth, about 80 kilometers south of Addis Ababa, in a zone of industrial
and agricultural growth. This college would serve the needs of existing
secondary technical schools for teachers, as well as supporting the
evolving emphasis on practical subjects in primary and secondary education
(paragraph 2.09). Most such teachers presently have inadequate abilities
in practical skills instruction, because they were trained at general
teacher training facilities with limited practical workshop capacity. The
proposed college would have a capacity of about 400 in two-year dijploma
programs and about 400 in four-year degree programs. Once fully
operational, its targeted annual output of trained teachers would total
some 300, with 100 from degree programs and 200 from diploma programs.
Graduates would be prepared to teach automotive, drafting, woodwork,
metalwork and electrical technology. Students would spend over 50X of
their instructional time in study and practice relating to their skill
areas. Facilities to be provided would include boarding for about 800
full-time students and 31 staff housing units. Twenty man-years of
fellowships would also be provided to assure the availability of a
qualified staff of department heads by the time of operation of the
college. At negotiations, the Government provided a plan, satisfactory to
the Association, for staffing the college, using both available personnel
and those who are being or will be trained abroad.



- 13 -
3.08      Junior College of Commerce.  Funds would be included to expand
and rehabilitate the JCC (paragraph 2.14) to accommodate about 280
additional students, including a new library. The project would also
support six man-years of staff training for instructors.
3.09      Technical Assistance to the CHE.  Technical assistance and
training would be provided for institution building for the CHE, which
coordinates a ] post-secondary education activities and has direct
responsibility over most of those institutions not dependent upon the
University of Addis Ababa (Annex I, Table 5). The CHE lacks a full
complement of appropriately trained staff to meet its extensive
obligations.  This subcomponent would provide three man-years of specialist
assistance to reduce those deficiences, especially in management of the
planning and implementation of higher education development, 18 man-months
of fellowships in manpower and education planning, and a limited amount of
office equipment and vehicles.
Quality Improvement Component
3.10      Activities to improve the quality and instructional effectiveness
of both formal and nonformal education programs will be supported under the
proposed project by four subcomponents, in addition to the qualitative
aspects inherent in those items described above. The four include ten new
APCs and a new Training Center for the MOE, support for the activities of
the National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), and equipment and other
assistance to the Department of Educational Mass Media (DEMM).
3.11      Awraja Pedagogical Centers.  Local responsibility and authority
in management of the education system are being encouraged by devolution
of a number of technical functions to offices in the 106 awrajas which
cover the country. Within that context, the APCs are staffed and equipped
to provide school supervision, coordination, in-service teacher training,
program evaluation, assistance in curriculum modification and development
and use of teaching aids, research and other operational support services
to schools at the awraja level. The APCs are also the distribution points
for new educational materials. Ninety-seven APCs are now operational, some
of them in temporary quarters. Forty were provided for under the Fifth
Education Project, and the proposed project would provide finance for ten
more. Selection of the location of the remaining APCs would be according
to agreed criteria (Annex III).
3.12      MOE Training Center.  The MOE carries out an extensive program of
short-term training courses for its instructional and administrative
personnel. Some 3,000 participated in 1982/83 and more than 9,700 are
scheduled for 1983/84. Much of this training is done in Addis Ababa at
substantial cost for lodging, meals and transportation. The proposed
project would finance a training center in Addis Ababa, including dormitory
and dining accommodations for 200, three man-years of specialist services
to support initial operations, and physical space for the computer
facilities to be provided under this project (paragraph 3.17). In addition
to providing classroom and living space more economically, effectiveness of
the training is expected to improve because of reduced local transportation
time and the opportunity for trainees to use evening time for discussions
and group work.



- 14 -
3.13      Curriculum Development.  The changes in Government policy and
social orientation which have taken place since 1974 have made necessary
major curriculum revisions in all subject areas and at every level of the
education system. During the past seven years the NCDC has produced 277
titles (paragraph 2.08). The process of developing, testing and
implementing new curriculum materials continues on an ongoing basis under
an established timetable, with the objectives of Implementing a systematic
course of general polytechnic education (paragraph 2.09) and raising the
standard of education by making the instructional process more effective.
The NCDC also has responsibility for educational supervision, evaluation
and research, and administration of the APCs. Production of the materials
written by the NCDC is the responsibility of the Educational Materials
Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA) (paragraph 3.18). The
activities of the NCDC have been supported in various ways under the Third,
Fourth and Fifth Education Projects. The proposed project would continue
that support by providing funds for commissioned writers, for production of
curriculum materials, for curriculum evaluation, and for workshops and
seminars for experimental schools, primary and secondary schools, and APC
staff.
3.14      Educational Mass Media and Adult Education.  The DEMM, formerly
the Educational Mass Media Service, operates 11 one-kw medium-wave radio
transmitters which were provided through the Fourth Education Project. The
principal purpose of this network is school broadcasting, and its air time
is taken up with major subjects in the primary grades and with some
urgently needed subjects (e.g., agriculture, civics, health) for adult
education. Complying with requests from teachers and adult education
leaders, the DEMM intends to increase its air time for both schools and
adult education. Other Government agencies, notably the Ministries of
Agriculture and Health, also wish to use DEMM's network, particularly in he
evening. One-kw transmitters, however, have a severely reduced effective
radius in the evening because of interference. The proposed project would
provide the DEMM with 11 ten-kw transmitters to enlarge greatly the present
coverage and more than double the airtime. Each of the DEMK's existing 11
transmission antennas and transmitter buildings are designed to accommodate
these additional transmitters; the Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority
and the International Telecommunications Union have already allocated the
radio frequencies for all these transmitters; electricity is available at
all 11 sites. Nationwide educational broadcasting has been in operation
for some 20 years, in Amharic plus four local languages. The available air
time is now totally used, and it is expected that the expanded system would
also be fully occupied with formal and adult education activities.
3.15      In addition, the proposed project would provide office
facilities for the Department of Adult Education, which at the same time
would release needed headquarters space for the DEMM, and renovation of
seven small studio buildings annexed to local education offices near the
transmitter sites. The equipment to be installed in these studios was
supplied by the Fourth Education Project. These buildings and equipment
would facilitate local radio program production, especially for adult
education. Audio tapes and other materials would also be supplied. If the
linkage among the transmitters via off-air relaying proves feasible for
even part of the network, it is expected that the DEMN  could save



- 15 -
considerable labor and recurrent cost in implementing this subcomponent.
To explore that feasibility, a field strength survey would be conducted to
determine the effective linkage among stations with the new transmitters
(paragraph 5.03).
Support Service Component
3.16      The effective functioning of the education system and the quality
of the services it delivers depends not only on the curricula, methods,
facilities and materials used in the classrooms, but also on the management
production and delivery of those materials. The proposed project would
therefore include components to assist the provision of such support
services for the education system. These include: assistance to the MOE
for a computerized data system; the activities of the EHPDA; a transport
management and maintenance facility for the fleet of vehicles of the MOE;
and operational support to the PMO, which would implement the proposed
project.
3.17      MOE Planning Service.  Assistance to the Planning Service of the
MOE would be included under the proposed project for implementation of a
computerized data system. A feasibility study for the transition from
manual to electronic data processing has already been carried out with
assistance from Unesco, and a detailed strategy for its implementation  has
been prepared. The project will finance equipment (hardware, software,
calculators, instructional materials), fellowships and in-country training
(47 man-months), and the services of a systems analyst for two years.
3.18      EMPDA Headquarters Functions.  The EMPDA, an autonomous agency of
the MOE, has a broad range of responsibilities relating to the
acquisition and manufacture of items to be used in the schools, and
delivery to their place of use. These tasks include production of books
written at the NCDC (paragraph 3.13), of furniture (paragraph 3.22), of
chalk (paragraph 3.21) and of science equipment (paragraph 3.03). Included
also are maintenance of instructional equipment (paragraph 3.20) and
transportation of items such as those indicated above to the schools
(paragraph 3.19). The administrative offices of the EMPDA can no longer
accommodate the staff needed for the activities of the Agency. The
proposed project would provide a modest new headquarters building for the
EMPDA, to be built at a site on the outskirts of Addis Ababa which has been
selected for a number of EMPDA activities. In addition, three man-years of
technical assistance and 12 man-months of short-term study tours would be
provided to the EMPDA to strengthen its management and procurement
capabilities, especially for procuring equipment for the colleges of
teacher education (paragraphs 3.06, 3.07).
3.19      Vehicles for execution of the duties of the EM4PDA would also be
provided, to deliver books and educational materials to the schools, thus
increasing the fleet assigned to this work.
3.20      Support for educational equipment maintenance was provided under
the Fifth Education Project. This has become a major thrust of the EMPDA
and would be continued under the proposed project. Given the essential



- 16 -
role of spare parts in the maintenance and repair of educational equipment,
funds would be provided to purchase additional spare parts.
3.21      Chalk Production Unit.  The productive facilities of the EMPDA
include a chalk production unit which utilizes labor intensive methods to
produce, from locally obtained materials, all of the chalk used by the
country's formal and adult education programs. Much of the equipment now
at the unit is near the end of its useful life. The proposed project would
provide for a new facility at the site of the new EMPDA headquarters
(paragraph 3.18). This facility would provide for chalk production to
serve the country's expanding education system, and would minimize foreign
exchange costs associated with that production. During negotiaitons, the
Government provided assurances that measures will be taken in the
construction and operation of this facility to keep dust emission within
acceptable levels for worker health (paragraph 7.01a).
3.22      Regional Furniture Production.   The EMPDA contributes to the
supply of school furniture by operating both central and regional furniture
production units. The operational effectiveness of five of the regional
units would be supported by the proposed project through provision of metal
workshops and a small quantity of selected equipment and vehicles. A kiln
dryer and a shed for air curing would also be provided to the central unit
for use by the regional units. At negotiations, the Government provided a
plan, acceptable to the Association, for improvement of the management of
those units and for training their key workers in making furniture of
metal.
3.23      Transport Management.  The MOE possesses a fleet of more than 400
vehicles to carry out its responsibilities to supply and oversee the
operations of formal and nonformal education institutions and facilities
throughout the country. These vehicles are based both centrally in Addis
Ababa and at regional offices. Those based centrally, serving mainly the
EMPDA, the SCMS, the DEMM, the NCDC and the Department of Adult Education,
require both routine maintenance and minor repairs for which neither
commercial nor governmental facilities are sufficiently available. A
consultant's report prepared under the Fifth Education Project
demonstrated the feasibility of a transport management and maintenance
program for the MOE in terms of benefits from increased vehicle life and
decreased downtime. The capital and operating costs of the necessary
facilities were shown to be economically justified, provided their
introduction is accompanied by improvements in the management of fleet
operations. The proposed project would therefore provide facilities for
transport maintenance, including tools, initial spare parts and equipment,
to be located at the new EMPDA site (paragraph 3.18), in addition to three
man-years of specialist services and five man-years of fellowships and
local training to promote improved management and technical performance. A
key element would be training of mechanics and other specialists to upgrade
the vehicle maintenance program. At negotiations, the Government provided
a plan, acceptable to the Association, to develop effective management and
training for operation of the MOE vehicle fleet.
3.24      Project Management.  The PMO, an agency of the MOE established to
manage the Fifth Education Project, is now responsible for implementation



- 17 -
of IDA, ADF and SIDA projects and is being considered to become
implementation agency for all MOE-based projects. The PMO is performing
effectively in management of the Fifth Education Project. The proposed
project would provide four man-years for a Project Coordinator and
incremental operating expenses associated with the project. Vehicles, hand
tools and four man-years of specialist services for a Civil Works
Coordinator would also be provided to support the School Construction and
Maintenance Service (SCMS) in Its role in construction of primary schools
and the PMO in supervision of the construction of other buildings under the
proposed project (paragraph 5.11).
Summary of Technical Assistance Activities
3.25      Specialist Services.  About 20 man-years of specialist services
would be provided by the proposed project, as follows: (a) three man-years
to develop project management capability at the CHE (paragraph 3.09);
(b) three man-years to support Initial operations at the MOE training
center (paragraph 3.12); (c) two man-years for a systems analyst at the HOE
planning service (paragraph 3.17); (d) three man-years to strengthen
management and procurement at the EMPDA (paragraph 3.18); (e) three
man-years to support management development at the transport management and
maintenance facility (paragraph 3.23); (f) four man-years for a Project
Coordinator at the PMO (paragraph 3.24); and (g) four man-years for a Civil
Works Coordinator for the PHO and the SCMS (paragraph 3.24). Summary task
descriptions for these specialists, to be selected according to Bank Group
guidelines, are given in Annex IV.
3.26      Fellowships.  About 33 man-years of fellowships and other
training would be included under the project, specifically: (a) 20
man-years of fellowships to train department heads and other key staff for
the productive technology teacher training college (paragraph 3.07); (b)
six man-years of training for instructors at the JCC (paragraph 3.08); (c)
18 man-months for the CHE (paragraph 3.09); (d) 47 man-months of
fellowships and other training for the MOE Planning Service, (paragraph
3.17); Ce) 12 man-months of short-term study tours for EMPDA management
(paragraph 3.18); and (f) five man-years of training for managers and
technicians of the transport management and maintenance facility (paragraph
3.23). The curricula vitae and courses of study for the fellowship
recipients and trainees, including their proposed training institutions,
would be subject to review by the Association.
Environmental Impact
3.27      Other than the possible concerns for worker health because of
dust emissions in the chalk production unit (paragraph 3.21), for which
provision has been made, no negative impact on the environment is expected
as a result of the proposed project.



- 18 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$109.6 million
equlvalent, including custom duties and taxes estimatod at about US$11.9
million. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in
Annex V, Tables 1 and 2, and are sumarized as follows:
X of
Birr (Milllon)       US$ (million)    Base
Project Component            Local Forelgn Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost
1.  DIRECT EDUCATION ODHPONENTS
Primary Education       18.6    14.5  33.1       9.0    7.0   16.0   19
Secondary Education    22.4    19.8  42.2    10.8    9.6   20.4   24
Teacher Training        26.8    32.0  58.8    13.0   15.4   28.4   34
Higher Education          3.1     4.1   7.2      1.5    2.0    3.5    5
TOTAL (1)               70.9    70.4  141.3   34.3   34.0   68.3   82
2.  Quality Improvement       8.7     9.1   17.8    4.2    4.4    8.6   10
3.  Support Service           5.0     8.3   13.3    2.4    4.0    6.4    8
TOTAL BASE COST (1-3)   84.6    87.8  172.4   40.9   42.4   83.3  100
(March 1984)
4. Contingencies
a) Physical (9Z)  7.5       8.3   15.9    3.6    4.0    7.7
b) Price (20%)   19.5    19.1   38.5    9.4    9.3   18.6
TOTAL (4)                 27.0    27.4   54.4   13.0   13.3   26.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1-4)  111.6   115.2  226.8   53.9   55.7  109.6
of which taxes             24.7     -      24.7   11.9    -       11.9



- 19 -
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles have been derived from contracts awarded for similar items in the
Fifth Education Project and other Government development projects. The
proposed schedules of accommodation are functional, austere and appropriate
for the proposed project objectives. The unit cost of construction varies
from about US$110 equivalent per square meter for rural primary schools
to about US$400 equivalent per square meter for the productive technology
teacher training college. These unit costs are amongst the lowest in
comparison with similar institutions financed in other Bank Group education
projects in Eastern Africa. Furniture and equipment would be of a type
appropriate to the basic needs in the country to accomplish the educational
objectives of the proposed project. Fellowships, including cost of travel,
tuition and boarding are estimated at US$1,600 per man-month.
4.03      Duties and Taxes.  In accordance with Government regulations,
three types of duties and taxes are levied on goods and services: excise
tax, transaction tax and municipality tax. The Government supplements the
budget of its various agencies by the amount of taxation, which is
estimated at about US$11.9 million equivalent or 11% of total project cost.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, an average
of 9% has been added to the base cost. Price contingencies have been
calculated by applying, to the base cost plus physical contingencies, the
following percentage rates of price escalation in accordance with the
implementation schedule (Annex V, Table 3):
Calendar Year      1984    1985       1986   1987   1988   1989
Local (Z)          8.0        9.0    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Foreign (Z)        3.5        8.0      9.0    9.0    9.0    7.5
These annual rates have been reviewed by Bank Group Staff and have been
found satisfactory. The total price increase is estimated at 20% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies.
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works 40%; (b) locally manufactured
furniture 60%; (c) directly imported furniture, equipment and vehicles
100%; (d) equipment assembled or manufactured locally 75%;
(e) curriculum/staff development 5%; (f) professional services and project
administration 20%; (g) long term technical assistance 85%; and (h) short
term consultants and fellowships 10OX. Including contingencies, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$55.7 million equivalent or
51% of the total project cost (57% net of taxes). This high foreign
exchange component is basically the result of a high proportion of imported
equipment, construction materials and technical assistance.



- 20 -
Financial Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$109.6 million equivalent would be
financed with a Credit of SDR 67.3 million (US$70.0 million equivalent) as
follows:
US$ million
Category               Government        IDA           TOTAL
1. Civil Works                      20.4           30.5          50.9
2.  Furniture                        2.1            4.0           6.1
3.  Equipment, Mat., Vehicles        4.6           16.0          20.6
4.  Professional Services            0.7            1.1           1.8
5.  Technical Assistance             3.2            2.5           2.7
6.  Curriculum/Staff Develop.        0.4            0.6           1.0
7.  ProJect AAministration           0.1            0.1           0.'
8.  Contingencies                   11.1           15.2          26.3
TOTAL                   39.6          70.0           109.6
(of which taxes)             (11.9)           -           (11.9)
4.07      The Credit would finance about 72Z of the total net-of-tax cost
of the project, including 100% of foreign expenditure costB and 34% of the
local costs excluding taxes. The Government would provide US$27.7 million
equivalent, equal to about 28% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project,
in addition to covering the cost of all taxes (paragraph 4.03).
4.08      The effect of the proposed project on the Government budget has
been estimated on the assumptions that overall recurrent and capital
expenditures of the government will each increase at about 2% p.a. in real
terms in the coming years, and that the share of )DE expenditures in the
total capital budget will remain at about 6%, its average level of recent
years. The maximum capital budget allocation needed for the project in any
single year would account for about 5% of the overall capital budget
(FY84/85 and FY85/86). The recurrent expenditures to be generated by the
project when in full operation (1989/90) would make up about 7% of the MOE
recurrent expenditure at that time, which is projected to grow at the same
rate as total recurrent expenditure (paragraph 2.13).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01      Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a period of five
and one half years including six months for completion of payments and
withdrawals (Annex V, Table 4). The project is scheduled to be completed



- 21 -
by December 31, 1989, with a Closing Date of June 30, 1990. The
implementation schedule is realistic and takes into account the experience
of previous IDA assisted education projects.
5.02      Administration.  The PMO (paragraph 3.24) would be responsible
for overall coordination of the project. It would provide the linkage
between the Government and the Association and would coordinate the
technical aspects of implementation by the CHE. To avoid possible
overextension of the PMO's capacity and to ensure adequate implementation
resources and manpower, the Government, at negotiations, provided
assurances that the PMO would, at all times, receive the necessary
financial support and manpower resources to ensure timely implementation of
the project (paragraph 7.01b), and that the qualifications of appointees as
Project Manager, Coordinator, Engineer and Accountant of the PMO would be
acceptable to the Association. Included in the proposed project are the
following Technical Assistance, inter alia, to support its administration:
(a) four man-years of specialist services for a Project Coordinator to
assist the PMO; (b) four man-years of specialist services for a Coordinator
of Civil Works for the PMO and the SCMS; (c) 40 man-years for locally
recruited clerks of works for the PNO and the SCMS; and (d) three man-years
of specialist services to strengthen management and procurement by the
EMPDA. The above technical assistance specialists would be hired on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines for use of consultants. Hand tools and vehicles to assist
the SCMS in construction of primary schools would also be provided.
5.03      Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  To further advance project
preparation, a PPF in the amount of US$410,000 equivalent has been approved
by the Association for, inter alia: (a) architectural consultant services
for the design of the institutions included in the project; (b) technical
assistance specialists for: (i) the preparation of equipment layouts and
lists; and (ii) strengthening the management and procurement capabilities
of the EMPDA; and (c) a transmitter field strength survey. Work included
under the PPF is progressing satisfactorily.
5.04      Reporting and Evaluation.  Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Bank Group by the PMO each
December and June following Credit effectiveness. The formct would be
mutually agreed upon prior to the date of the first submission and would be
modified as deemed necessary during implementation of the project.
5.05      The MOE through the PMO would: (a) provide, by April 30 of each
year during execution of the project, a proposed work plan and estimated
financial requirements of the project for the following fiscal year, the
Association to comment within four weeks of their receipt and a financial
plan to be furnished by the Government by August 31 'paragraph 7.01c); (b)
advance fundE as required to SCMS; and (c) submit each year thereafter, an
annual report indicating actual work completed as compared with the plan.
The annual reports of SCMS and PMO will be the subject of consultations
between IDA and the Government in the course of project supervision.



- 22 -
5.06      The PMO would prepare and send to the Association for comments,
within six months from the Closing Date, a completion report assessing
attainment of project objectives, project implementation and initial
operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the performance of the
Government, the Association and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned. Indicators of the progress of project
implementation are given in Annex V, Table 5.
5.07      Maintenance.  Maintenance of primary schools is a community
responsibility. Some of the proceeds of selling produce from school lands
is used for this, as well as other local funds. The maintenance of
secondary school facilities is the responsibility of the SCMS, and that of
educational equipment is the responsibility of the EMPDA. These
units were strengthened under the Fifth Education Project and will receive
additional support under the proposed project (paragraphs 3.20, 3.24).
5.08      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering/Equipment
Procurement). A private consulting firm, selected in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, will provide comprehensive architectural and
engineering services for the new productive technology teacher training
college at Nazreth. The SCNS will provide architectural services,
utilizing standard designs, including those developed under previous IDA
financed education projects, for the primary schools, the LSS, the APCs,
the PTTI, the DEMI facilities, the chalk production unit and the furniture
production centers. The architectural and engineering services of EBCA
will provide comprehensive professional services for: (a) the new transport
maintenance facility of the MOE; (b) the renovations of and-additions to
the Kotobe College of Teacher Education; (c) the new EMPDA headquarters;
(d) the expansion of the JCC; and (e) the new MDE training center. To
assist the PMO and the SCMS in the supervision of construction of these
facilities, about 40 man-years of clerk-of-works services have been
included in the project. Finally, the Government has secured the
professional services of EQUIPRO for the procurement of equipment for the
new productive technology teacher training College at Nazreth. In
accordance with standard Government procedures and in line with
internationally applied procedures, the cost of the architectrual services
provided by private consulting firms would be negotiated as a percentage of
the cost of the works involved. The Director of the PMD would coordinate
and supervise the execution of the above services. The services of EQUIPRO
will be calculated on a man-month basis.
5.09      Sites.  Sites for the primary school, lower secondary schools and
APCs to be constructed during the first year of implementation have been
selected on the basis of agreed criteria (Annex III). The location of
primary schools, lower secondary schools and APCs to be constructed
hereafter will be selected on the same basis. Satisfactory sites for all
other institutions included in the project have been selected. Because
this land is already owned by the Governmcnt, a deed of ownership is not a
prerequisite for starting construction work.



- 23 -
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
US$ million
TOTAL
Project Element                           ICB      LCB           OTHER    COST
Civil Works                              51.9      13.5           2.1      67.5
(31.1)     (8.0)         (1.3)   (40.4)
Furniture                                 6.2       -             2.2       8.4
(4.7)      -            (1.3)    (6.0)
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles           22.6       1.7           2.4      26.7
(16.5)     (1.0)         (1.4)   (18.9)
Professional Services                     -        -              2.3       2.3
_        _             (1.4)    (1.4)
Technical Assistance                     -         -              3.4       3.4
-        -             (2.5)    (2.5)
Currriculum, Staff/development           -         -              1.0       1.0
-        -             (0.6)    (0.6)
Project Management                       -         -              0.3       0.3
-        -             (0.2)    (0.2)
TOTAL                                   80.7       15.2          13.7    109.6
(52.3)     (9.0)         (8.7)   (70.0)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Association.
5.11      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles and
imported construction materials would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for procurement except as follows:
(a)  construction of the primary schools, water supply to
secondary schools, APCs, DEMM local studios and local
furniture units;
(b)  manufacture of furniture and science kits for primary
schools; and
(c)  furniture, equipment and construction materials contracts
costing less than $ 50,000 equivalent each.



- 24 -
Item (a) Except as provided below, primary schools (paragraph 3.03), APCs
(paragraph 3.11), DEMM local studios (paragraph 3.15) and regional
furniture units (paragraph 3.22) would be procured by LCB (estimated at
US$13.5 million including contingencies and taxes, but excluding imported
materials obtained by ICB). Because of the small size and scattered and
remote sites of these works, however, and based on past experience, it is
likely that contractors will often not be interested in bidding on them.
In cases where no responsive bids are received, these works would be
constructed by the SCMS using departmental forces (force account method for
the supply of building materials, and labor-only contracts for the
construction). The water supply to the secondary schools would be carried
out by the EWWCA under negotiated contracts with the MOE (US$2.1 million
including contingencies and taxes).
Item (b) The Manufacture of the simple furniture required for the primary
schools would be carried out by regional furniture production units.
(Estimated at US$ 2.2 million including taxes and contingencies).
Standardized furniture designs and establishment of the regional production
units were assisted by SIDA, and are deemed the most cost-effective way to
obtain the austere and rudimentary furniture required. The manufacture of
primary school science kits would be carried out by the SSEPC, under a
negotiated contract with the MOE (paragraph 3.04) (estimated at US$2.4
million including contingencies and taxes). The SSEPC has been set up
specifically for the production of these science kits.
Item (c) Contracts for items under (c) would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Association (Estimated at aggregated value
of US$1.7 million including taxes and contingencies).
5.12      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction and other materials, furniture, equipment and
vehicles indicating proposed grouping and estimates of costs would be
reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award would be
required only for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent for civil works and
US$50,000 equivalent for furniture equipment, vehicles and construction and
other materials.
5.13      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used; (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preference of 15%, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers and (b) if
applicable, qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5% over prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
5.14      Disbursement would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for civil works under (1) force account, and (2) contract;



- 25 -
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for furniture, equipment, construction materials and
vehicles;
(c) 60% of local expenditures for services of consultants and
specialists domiciled in Ethiopia, 100X of foreign
expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for services of
other consultants;
(d) 100X of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for training and fellowships;
(e)  60% of local expenditures for incremental project
administration/operating costs excluding salaries; and
(f) 100% of withdrawn PPF funds.
5.15      All disbursements will be fully documented except those for works
carried out under force account, training, curriculum and staff
development, operating costs and contracts valued below US$10,000
equivalent. These would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE),
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by the Borrower at one central location and would be the subject
of an annual audit by auditors acceptable to the Association. In addition,
the documentation should be readily available for review by IDA
representatives during the course of project aupervision. The borrower
shall not submit applications for reimbursement valued below $20,000
equivalent. Based upon experience in previous IDA education projects, the
PMO has satisfactory institutional capacity to use SOE and manage the
special account. IDA disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1989 (Annex V, Table 6).
5.16      The project would be completed over a period of five and one-half
years including six months to finalize accounts and to submit withdrawal
applications. The typical disbursement profile for Ethiopia is nine
years. The previous four IDA education projects were completed in an
average of about six and one-half years. The ongoing Fifth IDA Education
Project is expected to be completed on schedule in four years. Because of
the experience developed in the past projects and the advanced status of
preparation of this project, a five and one-half year disbursement profile
is considered adequate.
5.17      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be available when needed, a Special Account would be established in
local currency in the National Bank of Ethiopia with an initial deposit of
US$0.8 million equivalent. The opening of a bank account into which the
initial amount of the Special Account would be deposited would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (paragraph 7.02).
The Government would make available its contributions for items to be
financed out of the Special Account at the same time as payments are made
out of the Special Account.
Auditing
5.18      Auditing would be required on a yearly basis for expenditures
related to the project with particular attention to expenditures reimbursed
against statements of expenditures. Auditing would be performed by the
Government's Audit Service Cooperation or other independent auditors



- 26 -
appointed in consultation with, and acceptable to the Association. Annual
audits would be provided to the Association within six months after the end
of each fiscal year of the Government.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01       The proposed project would support the ongoing Government
program of education system development, which is directed toward eventual
achievement of UPE, equity of access to secondary education, improved
educational quality and meeting labor market needs for the rapidly
developing economy.
6.02       In particular, the proposed project would provide the following
benefits: continued expansion of primary school capacity with due regard
for geographical equity; improved geographical distribution of LSS
facilities; improved educational quality through expanded facilities for
teacher training and improved curricula, instructional materials and media
systems; improvements in physical operations, by more effective provision
of instructional materials, maintenance and transport facilities; and
orientation of post-secondary education to labor market needs.
Risks
6.03       Past experience with the implementation of education projects in
Ethiopia has been uniformly good, and the overall risks of the proposed
project are minimal. Some specific technical areas of risk are indicated
in the following paragraphs.
6.04      The proposed College of Productive Technology Teacher Training
would be justified only if that institution is adequately staffed and
effectively utilized. The provision of a suitably trained and experienced
staff from the College's inception is therefore of utmost importance. To
reduce this risk, the Government provided a satisfactory staffing plan at
negotiations (paragraph 3.07).
6.05       The implementation of an ambitious program of primary school
construction (paragraph 3.03) and of building maintenance may be hampered
by the lack of a full complement of qualified technical and managerial
staff at the SCMS, as well as by rapid turnover of that staff. The
proposed project would provide technical assistance aimed at alleviating
these problems (paragraph 3.24).
6.06       The proposed component to improve the vehicle maintenance
capability of the MOE will only be cost-effective if accompanied by the
organizational changes and training needed to bring about operational
improvements in the management and utilization of the vehicle fleet. To
reduce this risk, a satisfactory plan for effective management of the
facilities was submitted at negotiations (paragraph 3.23).



- 27 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01       During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
of the following matters:
(a) assurances that measures will be taken in construction and
operation of the chalk production unit to keep dust emission
within acceptable levels for worker health (paragraph 3.21);
(b) assurances that the PMO would at all times receive the
necessary additional financial support and manpower resources
to ensure timely implementation of the proposed project,
including staffing in sufficient numbers, with key personnel
(manager, coordinator, engineer(s), accountant(s))
acceptable to the Association (paragraph 5.02); and
(c) provision, by April 30 of each year during execution of the
project, of a proposed work plan and estimated financial
requirements of the project for the following fiscal year,
the Association to comment within four weeks of their receipt
and a final work plan to be furnished by the Government by
August 31 (paragraph 5.05).
7.02      As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government would open
an IDA Special Account (paragraph 5.17) into which the initial amount of
the working fund would be deposited.
7.03      Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable bases for an IDA credit of SDR 67.3 million (US$70
million equivalent) to the Government of Ethiopia.



-  28 -                                                                         Annex I
Page I of 2
C.OMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
July  I, 1984
CENTRAL
GOVERNHENT
EXPEND ETORE   EDUCATION                           COHPLETIOlN            RECURRENT
ON EnDUCATION  RECURRENT        ADULT              RATE FOR               ItNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER               AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURFS  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SECONnARY HIGHER
BASF  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT C.NP TOTAI rCENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE             ENROLL. SCHOOL       STInENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROI.L.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (CUSS)   DEVOTEI) TO) GOVERNMENT    PRI  SEC  HI    (M)    RATIn   CYCLF                 PEP       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIo         PER         RATIn
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPEN.DITURE             f2)         (1976)   (2)          (Z)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA         (2)        (t)      TEACHER       (2)
(I)      (2)        (3)            (4)            (5)           (6)       (7)       (8)         (9)        (10)          (M.)        (12)        (13)     (14)
DEVELOPFED CoUNTRIES
AUSTRALI.A          8n     14        870       6.3 "       14.6             1__                    03X       In0         21        ---            99           73        13       20.90
CANADA              91     23 7b  q,65nb    7,7a           18.5aY       3na? 34a? 23a?   qgb         ln6x      100         21         19.9a?       100           92K       IR       22.60x
G.ERMANY  .P..      79    61.2  12,20n         '.6         9g9a         ---  ---  --       94b        R9a      10n0na      ___                     IOa           94a       ---      12.1 a
NETHERl.ANDS        79     14.0n  10,490       7.9          5.1         20   35   25       ggb?      96         95         IR         15.3          99           R2        13       12.4n
NEW ZEALAND         sO      3,2 h  6,n81b      5.5w        13.4         37   31   28    g4b           0on      0on         24         11.6         100           82        IS       25.Rnx*
SWEDEN              79      8.3  12,2sn        9,n         18.2         31   10   10       9gb        99x     IlO           58^       19.9         100           79x       IatY    36.50ny
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA            80      0.8b      72nh    6.3n         19.3         48   28   15       35b        94        74         32         22.n          33*3         20        18        i.sn
HIURUNNl            .1      4.2      235       2.8hw       19.0         43   2R   27       25         2gx       35         37        20.2           12            3X       17        1.0nr
CoMO(ROtlS          8tl     04b    260         6.5"        25.4         40   2Rb  14        ---      69X        h5         45         16.n          58           2Ix       3n        1.40
DJIBOUIITI          84      0.4      480      R.0          11.9         73   26    ...    Io         42         66         40        67.0           40           10        19        0.60
ETHIIOPIA           RI    32.8h       14fb    2.9P         38.7         45   25   20       53         42        3na        61         19.3          93a          14        44        0.45
KENYA               79    15.3       39fb    5.9"          19,0h        71   15   14       45        92         74         40         15.8          41           19        28        1.nn
l.ESOTHO            R2      14h    435b        5.5         16.q         38   32   26       53b      326x        41         48         9.6           46           21        21        1.10
MADAGASCAR          77      8.5      33n       4.Ow        24.0         53   28   19       5n         94hx      33         $5h         A.n          38           14        23        3.IOhy
MAL.AWI             81      6.1b     230b    3.5           11.4         38   14   25       25b        62        23         65          5.          12            4        21        0.40
MAtIRITIUS          80      n1.gb  1os8oh    6.n           11.5         39   40      7     s0        87         78         22b        17.1          79           45X       21        n.40
RWANDA              8n      5,nb     2nOh      3.2         21.3         62   17   11       23b        57        6 62       4n         14.n           6            4x       13        0.40
SEYCIHI.l.EiS       79      0.6    1,770       5.9         22.4a        14a  33a  to"                           --- __  ---  ---        ---                                ---      ---
SOMIALIA            Rl      4.5      280       1.5         10.5         50b  44h1  6h    5nh         22h        80h        29h        9.ob          sob          12h       22        2.00
StIDAN              80     19.2h    3ROh       3.0         ---         66   39   ...    32           %lax       68         34          1.4          44           16        16
SWAZILAND           80      0.6      76h       7.9         18.8         41   34   15       65b        79        5n         34         11.2          98           37h       18        2.50
Ti  !IA              C                                       ' .               C              h                                       11.0            lb                     a          I
:        :                                       z          ___             t                     , N      t l l i F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI*



> s         s1    1  ~~~~~~~~~~b  b 1  11                         1     4.                          x                                                                      I
SI;AZILANI)~~~~A R<     t.6       76tl      7 .9         18.R9        4 1   14    1 5     65b        79         5n          34         11.2           9Rq          37h       I18         2.5sn
TAN7.ANIA            R0(    18 .5      2611      S.q          1 7.7        4 7    1 0    1 6    79h       98h        R 7         4 1        1 1.0           19h           3        2n'        n.31n
t1f-AND)A            RI)    12.6h      3001h     ---          I h. I       ' 23h  37b  2nh      4 R        54"      6fl          3S4        ---             1 7           S        2'1        n.fin
ZAIRE                789    2 7 .      21 rIA    f il         22 n         Zq   26   25         1 5       R4v        44          42x        ---            4 1           1 Ix      27         1I. aby
ZAMB IA              81)      S 7      56hb      4. SP       I11.1         S8   2 3   22        44h       9S         Rn)         48         1 2.9          1 9           lfi       22         1.Se}
21MlRABWE            8 1      7.7b     700'h    5-.1          19.5         6 2   3 2    h       44b       9,1        SS          3 9        2n.01          RS           S1         2 3        n.5,.
VE:STERN AFR ICA
WNF 1-,Y             7t        l.4h    32n)h     h .5w        3s.n         4 3   2 1     5     1 1h       4!2        3n          4h6        14 .X     0                  1nI1      413        I .OOv
CAMvERONo            78      R.!       5sn       2 9y         I's fly      3311J   S1    f10  ~--          74V      14 v         5n'~       ll. 1a          1011         14v       2fi        i.iny
r.A.R.               79       2.2      2Rn       3 .Ray       20.6ay       _-      -                       ~5 aY                            ---                          --         -- _   _   .70ay
C:HAn)               7h      4-4       12(5      2 .4bwy      21.7b         ---  ---  ---   is             25Y       ---         77         --              ---           3XV      21         0.2nY
CoN(a0               78       1.5      670       9.nawv       27.7aY       ---  ---  ---   ____                       __Sbv                 ---             in           ---       4.1br      4.47(aY
rAB(ON               7 7     (0.6   1,420)       3. Ihy        4.4v        ---  ---  ---    ---            ---        ---        4r,hv      ---            -----~    igh                      2.ROny
GAMB1IA              7 7     n.fi      220)      13 .aw        6 .5h       46   2i    ha1 63    ob        4OhY       g;1-.t         Iy      44.7a          bn            Q hxv     17         ---
C:HAINA              76      11.3      4011      4.ny         15.5h         ---  ---  ---   ___            71hxv      -          2inv       ---             ---          36bxv     21         ---
GUTINEA              79       5.3      29(P    4 .6a-p        ---          2sa  28a  2Ra   2zn             34        3fi         3R         20.Oap         85            16        29         7.01na
IVORY WbAST          Al      8.2h   1 sn7(b    10.11          4S.n         31   46i   11      3ilb        hn         R6          43         26.n           47           lsaxv      2fi        1,90ay
LIBERIA              8R       19       520       4 .6         lq 6         41    23   24      3n          52         32          3S         2n,n           7fi          22         20         2.90
4ALI.R                        7.0h     190       4.2a         21.7A        38   21    It    In            20         60          44         15.7           66,            I        It         0.Qnav
MUIRITAN IA          78       1.6b     32nb      s.5          lfi.9        3 3   43   2S       17h        32         60          44         52.0           3n             9        25         0.37
.SIGER               78       5.2      300       4.3av        16 .6ay      52a  43a    5a       a          17        56a         41a        3R.7> a         n             2        24b        0.20Y
Nl(,ER IA            7 7    82.6       910       4.IY          9.6         ---  ---  ---   ---            ---        ---         ---        ---            ---           1 nxv     25         0.17y
SEEGeALj             7 7     5.S       450       5.n          23.0         46    34   2n       In         34bxy      ---         43hy       ---            20            10        21         2.2nbv
SIERRM  l.EONE       77       3.4      25i)      4.nh         16.nh        --    --       -     sh        37X        ---         35         25.nh          84            15X       22         0.60by
T()G0                78       2.4      400       6.5qw        26.5(l       30-a  28a  214    18            74        40          54by       38,n           52            32 bxy    48h        1.60by
UPPER VOLTA          78       5.6      18-0      3.0aw        19.3av       31    16   32    ---            I 5by,    23          53by       52.5?          19             3hxy     25         n.n2y
IATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIHPFAN
ARr,ENTINA           78    77, -7    2 ,2 1      2.7          1n.9         41a  31a  188   93b            89         52          17         ---            R7            3 1        A        23.00
RAIIAMAS             79      0.2    2,77tl       S,7          19,1         36   36    11    93hb          9q         97          24         ---            97           75         19        ---
BARBADOS             78      0,2   2,680         8.5awy       22.1a        b3a  31a  16o   ggb           IOOY        99a         27Y        19.9a          99a          78Y        20Y       ---
HotLV IA             8n      5.4       55n       4 jav        30.5a        -- _-_-  ---   61              74Y        ---         2nY        ---             --           15IY      __-       12.60Y
RRiZII.              79    116.5   1,770         3.8           6,2         51   ---  14       76          73ay       ___         23aY        4,5h          61*           15ay      14ay      12.62b
CHliII.E             76      10,9    I,R90       3.2hy        13 tnb        ---  ---  --119 lbxy                      ---        34by       ---             ---          55bxy     20by      11,90by
COLOMBIA             so     26:7b  ;:180b        3,3          25.0         35   20   20    Ftlh           7A         36          32          6.6           ---          47         20        10.02ay
CO)STA RICA          8f1      2 2b     8 I n b   8.4          31.1         40   27   33    90             93         77          33          5.5           77           40         27        14.nn
CUBA                 78      9,8       ---       8.0          II.(         ---  ---  ---   96            112bxy    98            18by       ---            98           71bxv      IS        19.02by
DOMINICAN REP.P    8n         5,3    0,30        2.q          13.n         39   21   22       68b         8n         31          5 9         3.2           94            3 n       33        16.00
ECUADOR              80       R,4 b  1,110       6,0P         36,7         45   31    16    81           105         ---         36         12.fi          R6           47         16        29.0n
FL SALVADOR          77       4-4      640       3.4h1y       23,1by       64     8   2 7    62           82bxy      32          39         ---            41            26bxy     27hy       7.90by
GUATEMALA            78       6.8    1,010      I1.7aty       12.6b        ---  ---  ---   ---            69bxy      ---         35hy       ---            69            l5bxv      I9by      S.5Uv
GIIYANA              76       n.8      630       8.1 by       13.9 by       ---  ---  ---   ---            ggbxy      ---        32bv       ---             -- _         5bxy       ---       3.nnhy
IIAITI               80       5,0b1    230       3 4w          7 gay       fi5    9     6      23b         so        20          41         19,n           fi2a           48       27         0.80
HONDURAS             78       3. 0     52n       3 5by        143 3by      62 a  l5a  Iga   60            iiqbxY     3na         41by       12.8"          fiAa          2 I"Y      19        8onnY
JAMAICA              80       2,1    1,110       6.5          13.7         37   43   20       90          98         98          40          2.3           95            81        22         R.OO
MFXICO               RO     65.5    1R890        4-'          17.na        46   39    15    92            98         53          44          9.5           86            56 bx      I        in.3o
NICARtAGUA           78       2.6b   4,lot,      3.Obw        14.0b         ---  ---  ---   g(b           11 hx      24          37 b       ---             ---          26b       30b       --
PANAMA               78       ].R b  is 55(b     5.5 bwy      21 Aby       42a  13a  13    82 b           95 by       ---        25by       11,6           R 5a          50 by     27bv      20 .4nby
PAMACUAY             79       3,0    1,14n       1.4w         14.2         42    17   20      84          83         32          2R          3.jr          76            22         12        0.70
PERU                 80      16.6    Inoo        3,6          14,3         53    15   19    80            83         56          39          9.8           A9            39        22        14.40Y
TRINIDAD & TOR.   77          11   3,10          4.8Yf8by                  48   32   20        95         98         91          30         10.57          49           fi2        24         _
URUGUAY              78       2.9   2,500        2,5           9,4b         ---  ---  ---   94            105bx       ---        24h        ___             ___          64bx       ---      I7,ROay
VENEgUELA            78      14.4    3:440       5,1Y         18,gb         ---  --A- 92                  106bx       ---        28         ---            ---           38bx       17       21.10v



I                          :, ,  s ,         :1- >. _                         .
1i UCAI.                    i,12,:i(                       :: 1, 2                         ;                                  a        :8              J          ..
ROMANIA             78    22.1   2,100         39qby         6.2y        ---  ---  ---    98          106bx      ---         21b       ---            98           P4bx      22h       1,60by
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920         2.1y         16.8y       ---  ---  --  ---             9Rby      ---         29b       ---            ---          67by      ---       24.1(by
SYRIA               78      8.6   1,170        4.4P         in.3         39   25   26       58         87hY      80          35h       ---            68           411Y      21b       12.61)
TUNISIA             79      6.4    1,130       7.oP         19.0        42   39   18        62b      lnx        8n          39b       12.8           30           3nx       3n         6.00
TURKEY              81      4.7b  1,460b       3.1          26.2         ---  ---  ---    73b         1j6cx      9a          28         7.9           51           38        2(t        6.70
YEMEN A.R.          80      6.8       420      5.opw        12.0        94      7    7      21b        37        l2a         38y       67.0           R5            1        20         1.1I)
YEHEN P.D.R.        82       2.Ob    420b    7.6             9.7         63a  14a   8a    53           61        34          25        22.0a          46           17        20         2.5,
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
Number of Countrtes:                       84                94       70   69   67        76        88         64         94         62             72          91         86       85
Range:                                      (1.4-            3,7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (8-          (15-      (32-         ('7-       Cl.1-          (6-         (2-        (8-      (0.1)1-
10.0)          45.0)  94)   46)  36)    99)           119)      99)          77)       67.0)          99)          84)        48)      29.0)
Quartiles: Upper:                            5.6            20.8      52   35   21    R8            96         79         4          2n             85           45        25        10.6
Median:                         4.0            15.5      43   27   18        52         83        60          35        12             61           25        21         3.7
Lower:                          3.0           I3.5        37   18   13       24         56        35          27         7             40           13         IS        l.n
Quartile Deviation:                          1.1             5.1     7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0         20.5       22.5        7.5        6.S           22.5         15.5       8.5         4.8
Mean:                                        4.5            16.1      46   28   18        53         75        60         36         16             60           31        21         6.9
Standard Deviation:                          1.9             7.4      13   I0    7        30        26         25          11        13             27           23         7         7.4
Median:                                      4.0            15.5      43   28   19        53        83         61         35         12             61           25        22         3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                           FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                               A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                              S * MINISTRY OF EDU'CATION (MOE) ONLY
,,,MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                       h - DATUM MORE RECENT TIIAN BASE YEAR                     T = MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONI.Y
?  DATIUM QUESTIONABL.E                                            N - CIIRRENT PRICES                                       W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
'  INCLUIDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                    P - GcP                                                   X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE  STInDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:                                                                                                                                    Z - LOWER SECONIlARY r)Nl.y
Columns I and 2: World Bank Atlas or 11RD missions.
Coluans 3 to 14: IBRD missions, Government snurces and/or llnesco Statistical Yearbook.
Comparative Educatton Data are useful In the evaluation of varlous education systems and analysis of relative stages of educational development hetwoen varioLIs
countries.  llowever, on the basis of the present data3, cross-national comparison should he approached with great cautiton.  Dlata presented In tht! above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions from government sources; the remainder are staff estimates or data fronm Unesco.  Efforts have heen made to standardize
definittons and, within limits, to check the accuracy of the data.  Nevertheless, such data are still imperfect in several respects an1 the Rank Is working to
improve them progressively on the occasion of its operational work.  In the use of these data, the follnwing qualifications should be kept In mind:
(I)  "Education" as defined in the table includes all education and training, both formal and non-formal.
(2)  'Primary  education refers to education at the first level and "secondary" education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, technical, agricultural).
(3)  "Literacy rates- (col. 6) are often obtained from c-untry censuses.  In many countries they are only approximations and it is douhtful that any uniform
definition of "literate' has been followed consisteuitly.
(4)  "Pubitc expendtture in educattion" (cols. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to educatton by public and1 quasi-public
agencies.
(5)  "Enrollment ratios" (cols. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-tine in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error in the developing countries owing to variations in the accuracy of hasic
data (i.e., age-speci:Ic population and enrollments). Enrollment figures frequently are higher than the numher of students actually In school. Over-aged
students whose inclusion is indicated by footnotes also can inflate the ratios.



-  29  -                                                                              Annex I
Page 2 of 2
CnMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
July II. 1984
CENTRAL
GOVERN4ENT
EXPENDITVRE   EDDUCATION                            COMPLETION             RECOPRRENT
ON EDUCATION  RECUIRRENT        ADULT               RATE FOR               UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
CNP PER                AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY             PRIMARY  PRIMARY       RATE FROM   SEtCtNDARY SEWND.',RY H1I;IIIR
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALIOCATED TO: RATE               ENROLL. SrCHnnL       STI'DETS EDIl'CATInN  PRI4ARY TO  ENROLL.   ,TtFNTS  F T,NRO1..
YEAR HILLS. ('IS$)   nEVnTED TO  V:OVERNMF.NT    PRI  SEC  11    (M)    RATIn   CYCLE                 PER       AS PERCENT SECONDIARY    RATIO        PER         RATIil
(1979) ''979)   E)LTCATIOt; EXPENDITURE              (2)         (1976)   (2)         (2)       TFACHER  GNP?CAPITA        (1)          (t)    TEAC)WR   l(',
(1)      (2)        (3)            (4)             (5)          (6)        (7)       (A)         (9)         (10)         (10)         (12)        (11)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA               Sl   996.0w'      30ntb    3.6           8.3         34   39   27       69h        8n        63          23          7.0          72           1A         17        1.7tl
INDONFSIA           81    150ISb      520      2.1           9.3        70   24    6        32h       9R         61          37        11.0           74           27        2h         1.7n
KOREA               82      39*3b  1,63hb    7.7w           2t.8         34   34   31       96         99        9R          43         19.0          9s           R4         1R       21,An
MALAYSIA            81      14.2b  1,788b    5.2            22.0         32w  37w  15w    60h          96ax      97          22        12.2w          87           h5.%t      19        1.7tla
PAPUA N.G.          83       3.0"     820      5.4          19.0         40   17   22                  60- hn    73a         i1a       Is.o           i5           13xz       27Z       1.00
PHILIPPINES         79    48 3b    h9nb        2.R8         14.0        64   36**,---    75h           84        65          31         7.1           89           55         36       21.00
SlINGAPORE          S0       2.4   4,420       2.7           6.7         39   40   16       83         92        82          I1         8.8           96           Si         22        R.On
snLO!ko" ISL.       80      O .2b    460       4.2Pw        in.0"       41   34   20        ---        60        At)         26        ---            is           IA        ---       ---
THAILAND            Rt    47.1        723b     3.4          20.9         59   IS   13       86b        96        ---         17         9.3           S9           29        !2         4.0n
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH           79    92.3b       9n      I.1P         10.y         SIl  17   21        2h        63__                  53         5.h                        14        23         1 .4 3
INDIA               77   659.6        2103     2.9v          9.9wy ---  ---  --    36                 79x       ---         41        ---            --           2Rx        -.-y
NEPAL               82      15.hb   15b        1.4        ---                 ---  ---      19         70        ---         38        ---            ---          21        23         3.70n
PAKISTAN            79      79.7      27n      2OnVy         5.1Y        39   26   27       24         56x       Al          48         h,.5          51           20ix       17        6.00
EUROPE. MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN          77     15.5      ---      1.7           3.7         47    19   15       12        31hy      69                                    2            A         22hy      1,nny
ALGERIA              79     18.3    1,77n      3.Rv         12.3         34a  2ha  21a      35         83Y       45a         37         7.0?          553          29v        2h        3.7ny
EC.YPT              RI    43.0h       580h    3.1aw          4.5         31a  35a  26a    44           84x       Rnia        34         9.8"a         A3a          43         19       1500a
GREECE               76      9.3   4,140       2.6w         106b         37   26   21       ---        97 bv                 2qh        h.2?          ---          79hx       ,7hy     17.Hoby
IRAN                79     36.9      ---       5.7aY        14.1av                   5 sn        llax        __          32a       ---            ---          44ax      248        4,qIay
IRAQ                79     12.6   2,710        4.3ay         6.9ay       ---  ---  ---    ---        Inny        ---        2A         ---            ---          45av      298        9,30"Y
IRELAND             81      l4b  4 48n         6.3y         II-.R"v  ___   ---  ---   g9             93         94          29        ---            9R           M1        14        11.0o
JORDAN              RI       2.2b  1,42nb    4.9w           10.2         19   44    18      70h       108"       8;          32         7.2           91           R2?        25       19n,0
LEBANON             79       2.3                            186asy                   --- 9--                 ---9i                 ---            ---          46x       ---       27 RnRy
MOROCCO             80      19.5      74n         3a        17. -        36   44   20       2R         56sV"     35          39        19.7           41           25        21         4 Stt
nMA.                 82       .9   S9206       2%8W         12.7"    ---   ---  --    n3?             71x      6h           25        __              6           11         14        .
PORTUtGAI.          79      9.8b  2,0630       3.6          22.2        50   2R   11        78         97       27           19a       12.8           RAg         4SSx       I7?       8.130x
ROMANIA             78     22.1   2,10`3       3Q.9hy        6.2       ---   ---   ---    98         1l6hx      ---         23h       __             98q ,.bx               72h       IO.60hY
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,92tl        2.1y         16.Rv        -         _---               9Ahy       ---         29h       ---            ---          67hv      ---       24,10by
SYRIA               78      8.6   11701        t.4P         1(1.3        39   25   26       58         57hv      Rn         31h        ---           6h            4lhy      21h       12.6n
TUNISIA             79      6.4    1 130       7.nP         19.0        42   39   18        62Ih      Is                     39h       12.8           3n           3nx        I"        6.00
TURKEY              RI      4.7h   1,4606b    3.1           26,2         ---  ---   ---    73b        WX         9fla        28         7.9           Si           38        21         ,.7(0
YEMEN A.R.          8n      6.8       420      %.flpw       12.0        94      7    7      21        37        123        31R        6 7.           AS            I        201        1.11I
YEME.N P.D.R        A?       ? ,,h    t0nb     7 A           9 7         6.1 a   .,,a   Ra    53       hl        1s          2%        22.w.1         46           17        20)        2.50
---     --  -- --  -- --  - - -- -- --  -- -- --  -- - - - -- -- - - -- -- --  -- --  - - -- - - -- -- - - --



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PORJECT
SECONDARY LEVEL ENROLLKENTS, TEACHERS, SCHOOLS - 1973/74 THROUGH 1981/82
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
Grades 7-8        +
Students
Total                 101,800    124,500    140,800       150,100   143,900    160,900      186,100   210,700    248,700
Government Schools    84,600    106,300    125,900        129,500   122,900    137,300      165,000   186,800    219,800
Teachers
Total                   3,200      3,800       3,900       4,000      2,347      3,900        4,640     4,820       5,450
Government Schools      2,500      3,000       3,300       3,300      2,142      3,300        3,860     4,100       4,690
Schools
Total                     420        507         555         614        659        659          706       788         813
Government                281        349         420         466        475         547         566       627         657
Grades 9-12
Students
Total                  82,300     64,300      qn,I00      131,300   135,700    163,900      185,200   216,900    238,500
Government Schools    74,700      61,100      87,900      127,800   132,400    160,400      180,800   211,700    231,900
Teachers
Total                   3,000      2,500       2,800       3,100      3,535      3,800        4,350     5,140       5,730
Government Schools      2,500      2,200       2,700        2,900     3,300      3,600        4,150     4,850       5,520
Schools
Total                     113         125        123          138       147         157         167       180         194
Government                 68         89          99          116       126         145         150       160         170
Source:  Ministry of Education                                                                                             |
'-I,
a .4



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIHARY LEVEL ENROLLMENTS, TEACHERS. SCHOOLS - 1973/74 THROUGH 1981/82
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
Students
Total              859,800    959,400   1,084,100  1,176,600  1,143,200  1,377,700  1,811,100  2,130,700  2,376,400
Government
Schools         645,000    742,900        774,100    873,300    876,500  1,059,100  1,494,100  1,798,700  2,051,100
Teachiers
Total                18,600      21,000       24,500      26,100      28,700      29,100      30,600      33,330       37,840
Governmetit
Schools          13,000      15,300        17,500      19,400      22,300      23,300      25,200      27,630      32,700
SchIools
Total                 2,754       3,166        3,707       4,100       4,286       4,862        5,198       5,822       6,208    0
Government            1,655       1,909        2,204       2,815       3,352       3,938       4,260       4,807        5,409    1
Source: Ministry of Education.
I-a,
.3X



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
RATES OF PARTICIPATION IN SCHOOLING - 1973/74 AND 1981/82
(Percent of corresponding age group)
PRIMARY LEVEL                  SECONDARY LEVEL
(Grades 1-6)            (Grades 7-8)        (Grades 8-12)
REGION                    1973/74    1981/82    1973/74    1981/82    1973/74    1981/82
Arsi                                22.8        59.1        7.7         18.0        3.0        8.1
Bale                                13.9       41.9         3.9         11.5       13         5.6
Eritrea                             27.8*       22.0       11.9*        11.6        5,5*       5.6
Gamo Gofa                           13.1        44.2        4.0         10.9        1.3        4.6
Gojam                               14.0        36.9        5.6         10.7        2.5        6.4
Gondar                              12.5        26.1        5.0          9,7        2.3        6.6
Harar                               11.0        22.1        4.5          7.1        2.0        3.7
Illubabor                           25.9       74.5         5.6         16.6        1.5        6.4
Keffa                               12.9        56.1        4.0         11.5        1.6        5.1
Shoa                                20.4       57.8         8.0         19.0        2.8        8.9
Sidamo                              13.6       66.1         5.7         18,1        1.7        6.8
Tigrai                              13.5        15.2        5,2          9.3        2.5        4.7
Weliega                             30.0       86.2         7.5         25.5        2.2       10.8
Wello                               11.7       31.1         5.1         11.2        2.0        5.7
Addis Ababa                         59.7        95.0       45.3         78.8       25.6       55.7
Assab Administrative Unit                      24.0                     10.3         -         6.5
NATIONAL          19.0       47,1         8.1         16.4       3.1         8.6
Source: Ministry of Education
Note: *Includes Assab Administrative Unit
m
IX



-33 -                         Annex I
Table 5
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LISTING OF POST-SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
Universities
University of Addis Ababa
(including Faculty of Medicine at Gondar)
University of Asmara
Agriculture
Debre Zeit School of Animal Health (CHE)
Debre Zeit Junior College of Agriculture (AAU)
Ambo Junior College of Agriculture (CHE)
Jimma Junior College of Agriculture (CHE)
Awassa Junior College of Agriculture (AAU)
Wondo Genet Forestry Institute (Other)
Alemaya College of Agriculture (AAU)
Debre Zeit Faculty of Veterinary Medicine (AAU)
Technology
Bahir Dar Polytechnic Institute (CHE)
Addis Ababa Building Institute (AAU)
Addis Ababa Municipal Technical Institute (Other)
Addis Ababa Faculty of Technology (AAU)
Teacher Training
Bahir Dar Academy of Pedagogy (AAU)
Alemaya Science Teacher Training Program (AAU)
Faculty of Education - College of Pedagogical Science (AAU)
Faculty of Education - Department of Technical Teacher Education (AAU)
Kotobe College of Teacher Education (CHE)
Commerce
Junior College of Commerce (CHE)
Source: Commission For Higher Education
Notes: (CHE) denotes institutions directly under the Commission for Higher
Education.
(AMU) denotes institutions directly under the University of Addis Ababa.
(Other) denotes institutions directly under other bodies.
All post-secondary education institutions are either directly or indirectly
under the CHE.



ETIIIOPIA
SIXTII EDUCATION PROJECT
POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS AND GRADUATES - 1976/77 THROUGH 1981/82
Field                     1976/77           1977/78            1978/79            1979/80             1980/81            1981/82
of Study             Degree  Diploma  Degree  Diploma  Degree  Diploma  Degree  Diploma   Degree  Diploma  Degree  Diploma
Agriculture
Enrollment          246      599       216      994       789   1,509        828   1,752         810   1,640        916   1,557
Graduates            25      164       125      132        89      586        94      770         319     759       N.A.    N.A.
Engiseering and
Technology
Enrollment          226       32       293      239       479      594       688      717        651      919       659      956
Graduates            39      191        44       67        44      120        116     257         143      254       N.A.     N.A.
Language Studies
Enrollment           -        -         -        -        195       -        405       -         490       -        592        -
Graduates            -        -         -        -          12      -          11      -          102       -        N.A.      -
Law
Enrollment           98       -        126       -        184       -        236       -          207      -        250        -
Graduates            24       -         15       -         23       -         44       -            7       -        N.A.      -
Medicine
Enrollment          321       -        215       -        653       -        851       -       1,002        -     1,023       115
Graduates            69       55         14      32         16      72         38       -          76        2       N.A.    N.A. >
Natural Science
Enrollment          205       -        237       -      3,143       -      3,087       -       3,117        -     3,007        -
Graduates            76       -         60        2       120        2       300       -          103       -        N.A.      -
Pedagogical
Science
Enrollment          354      540       496      743       771   1,430        521   1,679          246   1,517        205   1,685
Graduates            89      220        78      249        76      551       242      840          11      634       N.A.    N.A.
Social Science
Enrollment          406      768       662      537    3,102       688    2,866       833      2,768   1,001    3,018   1,002
Graduates            88       86       189      205       109      269       551      314          15      323       N.A.    N.A.
TOTAL
Enrollments       1,856   1,939    2,245   2,513    9,316   4,221    9,482   4,981             9,291   5,077    9,670    5,315
Graduates           410      716       525      687       489   1,600    1,396   2,181            776   1,972        N.A.    N.A.
Students
Abroad              4,244       -      4,882       -      5,336       -      6,463        -       8,213       -        N.A.    N.A.
Source:  Commission for Higher Education
Note:  Includes graduate studies
N.A. - indicates information not available
-     indicates  nil



ETHIOPIA
SIXTII EDUCATION PROJECT
INDICATIVE PROJECTIONS OF STUDENT ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
Enrollments                                      Additional Teacher
(Thousands)                                          Requirements
Primary
Teacher
Year      Primary    LSS    HSS    Tech/Voc.   Training           Primary      LSS    HSS    Tech/Voc.
1983/84    2,795      295    285.7    4.1           6.3
1984/85    2,995      338    295.9      -           6.8           4,980        1,553  496        12
1985/86    3,201      418    305.7      -           7.4           4,906        2,656  482       32
1986/87    3,421      499    315.5      -           7.9           5,176        2,719  482        22
1987/88    3,675      530    324.7      -           8.5           5,866        1,183  461       22
1988/89    3,931      556    333.9      -           9.0           5,844        1,029  461       22                   1
1989/90    4,155      596    343.7      -           9.n           5,278        1,429  381       22                  w
1990/91    4,391      632    353.6      -           9.0           5,488        1,329  385       22
1991/92    4,632      710    363.6      -           9.0           5,596        2,605  388       22
1992/93    4,937      806    375.1      -           9.0           6,892        3,141  535       22
1993/94    5,248      879    387.3    6.0           9.0           6,994        2,483  557       22
Average
Growth     6.5X       11.5%  3.1%      3.9%          3.6%
Source:  Ministry of Education.
Notes: These are provisional estimates which have not been endorsed by the Government.
The apparent oversupply of primary teacher training capacity will be used to:
a) reduce class size; b) replace unqualified teachers by qualified ones; and c)
begin to improve teacher training quality by lengthening the course in selected
cases.
I-i
1X.JH



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
QUALITATIVE MEASURES OF EDUCATION SYSTEM PERFORMANCE FOR SELECTED YEARS
1961/62    1967/68    1973/74    1975/76    1977/78    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
Survival Rate  Grades 1-6            -           -         60.4X       50.62       44.42       40.5X       40.6X        37.12
Grades 1-8           -          -           -         39.2        33.5         34.9        35.7        34.9
Grades 1-12          -          -           -           -            -         16.0        18.3        20.0
Percent Female - Primary             -           -         32  1/        -           -           -         35.9         36.4
LSS               -           -         32  1/        -           -           -          37.9        38.2
UiSS              -           -         26  1/                                          35.0         34.92/
Grade 1          26.8%        30,42         -           -            -           -           -         38.2
2          26.3        29.8          -            -           -           -           -         36.2
3          26.6        30.0          -            -           -           -           -         34.1
4          25.6        29.3          -            -           -           -           -         32.6
5          25.9        28.6          -            -           -           -           -         32.6
6          23.7        27,8          -            -           _           _           _         33.8
7          22,4        26.2          -            -           -           -           -         34.2
8          19.6        27.3          -            -           -           -           -         37.0
9          16.2        19.3          -            -           -           -           -         37.2
10          12.7        18.9          -            -           -           -           -         35.2
11          11.7        17.5          -            -           -           -           -         34.0
12          11,3        14.7          -            -           -           -           -         31.0
Grades 1-8           24.9          -           -            -           -           -           -         35.0
Female Enrollment Ratio
Grades 1-8            2.9          -           -            -           -           -           -         24.9
Grades 1-6             -           -           -            -           -           -         28          31
Grades 7-8             -           -           -            -           -           -         11          13
Percent Rural
Grades 1-6             -           -           -            -           -         58            -            -
Grades 7-8             -           -           -            -           -         14            -           -
Student/Teacher Ratio
Primary               -           -         46.1          -            -         59:1        64:1        63:1
LSS                   -           -           -           -            -         40:1        44:1        46:1
HSS                   -           -           -           -            -         43:1        42:1        42:1
Source:  Ministry  of Education and calculations derived from MtOE statistics.
Notes. 1/ 1974/75 data                                                                                                            ,
2/ Government schools only
- denotes no information
00 F



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROMOTION, REPETITION AND DROPOUT RATES, PRIMARY SCHOOLS - 1980/81
(Percent)
GRADE:
1          2           3            4          5           6
All Students
Promotion                    40.6        62.7        64.3         65.6      68.8        74.1
Repetition                   17.2        12.4        11.7         10.3        9.4        9.9
Dropout                      42.2        24.9        24.0         24.1      21.8        16.0
Males
Promotion                    42.0        64.0        65.3         67.8      70.6        81.1
Repetition                   15.8        11.3        10.5          9.5       8.6         8.5
Dropout                      42.2        24.7        24.2         22.7       20.8        10.4
Females
Promotion                    38.4        60.1        62.2         60.9      65.1        61.2
Repetition                   19.4        14.7        14.1         12.1       11.1        12.5
Dropout                      42.2        25.2        23.7         27.0       23.8       26.3
Source: Ministry of Education
H
ID X



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EXAMINATION RESULTS AT THE END OF GRADES 6, 8, and 12
(Percent)
Academic         Grade 6 Students:               Grade 8 Students:           ESLCE  Registrants:  1,
Year          Examined  Passing               Examined  Passing           with 1.4 GPA'A
1967/68           99      81                    104       63                     _
1968/69           99      61                    106       64                     _
1969/70           98      59                    104       63                    14
1970/71           99      52                    107       56                    14
1971/72          105      54                    121       60                    14
1972/73          105      56                    113       58                    16
1973/74           99      72                    115       82                    15
1974/75           90      66                    101       73                     _
1975/76           85      62                     85       61                     _
1976/77           92      68                    100       73                    28
1977/78           98      72                    101       74                    25
1978/79          101      74                    110       81                    28
1979/80          105      77                    113       83                    31
1980/81          110      90                    117       84                    21
1981/82          113      92                    120       88                     _
1980/81 ETHIOPIAN SCIIOOL LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION
Registrants for Examination
Passing    1.4 GPA 2/    2.0 GPA 2/
All Registrants 3/    -            24              8
Government Schools   93            30              12
Source:  Ministry of Education, Commission for Higher Education.
Note 1:  ESLCE denotes Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate Examination.
Note 2:  ESLCE  scores are given in terms of equivalent grade point average.  A score of 1.4
out of 4.0 is needed for university admission.
Note 3:  There were 35,365 students registered in grade 12 of Government and non-Government
schools in 1980/81. A total of 29,042 Government school students registered for the
examination; 74,621 registered in all, including mission and night school students and
private individuals.
0 



ETIhIOPIA
SIXTII EDUCATION PROJECT
QUALIFICATION LEVEL OF TEACIERS 1/
(Percent)
Total                                Males                              Feoales
Partially                          Partially                           Partially                Percent
Trained  Qualified  Untrained    Trained  Qualified  Untrained    Trained  Qualified  Untrained   Female Teachers
Primary Schools 2/                   42         25         33           41         24          35           47         25          28              22
Lower Secondary Schuols c           28        71          21            9         71          20            8         61          31              10
I1igiger Secondary Sebloola i/       36         46         18           36         46          18           36         41          23               8
Source:  Ministry of Education
Notes:  1)  Teachers with unreportad qualifications are excluded.  Theso amount to about 16% of ptimary school teachers, 17  of LSS teachers and
13% of HSS teachers.
2)  Partially qualified (primary) Includes grade 12 completers with short course training or university attendance.
3)  Partially qualified (LSS) lneludes those vith primary teacher training, university education or other post-secondary qualification.
4)  Partially qualified (hISS) includes practical subject teachers, and those with university education or other post-secondary
qualification.  These figures exclude 285 foreign teachers, about five percent of the total.
m



ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP), GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE AND EDUCATION EXPENDITURE
(Birr Millions at Current Prices)
1974/.7     1975/76    1976/77       1977/78     1978/79      1979/80    1980/81      1981/82
GDP, Market Prices                  5,524.5    6,004.0        6,826.3   7,232.2    7,961.3         8,469.8   8,805.6    9,247.9
Government Expenditures
Total                           936.9      1,105.8      1,276.1   1,680.4       1,653.6      2,001.2   2,191.1    2,374.2
Recurrent                       731.3        858.2        980.2   1,346.5       1,281.9      1,548.0   1,658.7       1,692.4
Capital                         205.6        247.6        295.9       333.9       371.7        453.2       532.4       681.8
Education Expenditures
Total                            154.7       149.9        158.0       153.9       190.2        217.6       235.2       263.9
(X of Govt. Expend.)            (16.5)       (13.6)       (12.4)       (9.2)      (1.1.5)      (10.9)    (10.7)        (11.1)
Recurrent                       139.1        136.1        138.7       142.6       161.9        185.6       199.6       222.3
(% of Govt. Expend.)            (19.0)       (15.9)       (14.2)      (10.6)      (12.6)       (12.0)      (12.0)      (13.1)  g
MOE                           121.5        123.5        120.4      120.5        136.2        152.4       163.2       180.4
(X of Govt. Expend.)          (16.6)      (14.4)        (12.3)      (8.9)       (10.6)        (9.8)      (9.8)       (10.7)
Higher                         17.6         12.6         18.3       22.1         25.7         33.2       36.4         41.9
(%of Govt. Expend.)            (2.4)        (1.5)        (1.9)      (1.6)        (2.0)        (2.1)      (2.2)        (2.5)
Capital                           15.6        13.8          19.3       11.3        28.3         32.0        35.6        41.6
(Z of Govt. Expend.)             (7.6)        (5.6)        (6.5)       (3.4)       (7.6)        (7.1)       (6.7)       (6.1)
(Education Expenditure
as X of GDP)                         (2.8)       (2.5)         (2.3)      (2.1)        (2.4)        (2.6)      (2.7)        (2.9)
Source: World Bank Country Economic Memorandum, August 1983.
Note: Some percentage totals fail to tally because of rounding.
tbax



- 41 -                            Annex I
Table 13
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIT ANNUAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
(Birr)
Lower                                 Primary   Post -
Year        Primary    Secondary    Secondary    Technical    TTI         Secondary
1973/74        81          75            279        1,816         1,213      -
1974/75        63         213            378          -             -        -
1975/76        70         200            263          -             -        -
1976/77        73         209            248          -             -      4,822
1977/78        81         240            254          -             -      4,645
1978/79        73         218            198          -             -      1,899
1979/80        57         185            170        3,016         1,526    2,296
1980/81        51         159            131        1,086         1,194    2,533
.i.s,dii82     56         139            147          610         1,098    2,796
Source:  Ministry of Education, Commission for Higher Education, World Bank Country
Economic Memorandum, August 1983.



ETHIOPIA
Structure of the Formal Educatlon System
LRIYEasITEs
KeW
O  State Ernnofio
*  Degre
{3-                                ~~~~~~N
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       COUGE t  CM^C
I  I  I    I      I           c   I          IIII                            k E
kxCOUOF-25 OM a



- 43 -                                               Annex I
Chart 2
ETHIOPIA
Educatlon Enrollment PyramId - 1981/82
POPULATION OF
STANDAUD                                                                           TOTML         STANDAo AGE
CRADE  AGE                       MALES                        FEMALES                     IN GRADE      MALE    FEMALE
12    18                                     25                                            36         309        297
11    17                  |                 3      17                                      51         319        N0
10     16                                                                                  66          330       316
9     15                                                                                    6         3         327
8     14                                                                                  107          52       337
7     13                                                                                 14          364        348
6     12                                              56                                  166         376      360
5     11                                            63                                    193        389       372
4     ¶0                        la                       7268                                        402        384
3     9                                                    16399                                     416       396
2   a                a                                                                   507 *431   413
CTIHOUSANDS)
500    40D    300    200    10D      0      100    200    300    400    500
(THOUA)
Notfs
- Enirrimenis by grads (1961/82) are cofmpred with poputlan eslimate of sotandrd oge ar grade (1980)
- GoreeTvnent &  n.gouemmerit pdmray & gnera seconry enllments ore ghen.
- Erllment moay foil to tally becoae of rounding
Ukwld  Xi*-25



- 44 -                               Annex I
ETHIOPIA
Mlntiy d Educatlon
Organkathon Chart
E|f*om NGUort    dM la   A                      1
I                                                  Muarl UNmV e
PSK~~~~~SV
_         _W.m                              -f    oonwoo
PIomi        noTmona 1                 I gEctmgcal 8'
. . j ~~I  S            I
B_O P                      C_&o 
BoAwroEuM    EoCouo
NcOW
Nae    ol dh~oOs ctr _it avh oQCS                                 Vdoob -25



ETHIOPIA
Commssilon lf Higher Educatlon
Organization Chad
r - -m 
SC~a~ a T.ctwcgy
ICh I*
SoeWSd a                             O        Ic
CoYcSnot0    1
__~~~ . __                                                                                        __I
& Mwago-nf                  Elrwdx |           |o                                                                t &
1                                                                           Cooft*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iw.40sxt
Mc~gret  &;       
Cowdot,                               s                                              CO.
. Soc~~~~~~~~~~~a^Hnhdtn                          E5t  Rek 
I  ?tsc   -'-I                                                                    I                      -          
MC_ KM S  lt%  &                                                                  _o mli kbnoWalan      V_      R   &           nli
hknatisi                                                                             kncn          tn -I   Reoc 
Infamnathon                                                                          Education             Pcn
Ift Bm-25494



-46-                          Annex II
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATIONIAL SERVICES BY LEVEL AND TYPE
Primary Schools
1.        Despite the rapid growth in the number and enrollments of these
schools since 1974, the pressure for provision of educational facilities
and services at the primary level continues unabated, because of the still
very low enrollment rates. One cause is the drive for UPE. Another is the
demand for full primary education, commencing in grade 3 or 4, by the
younger completers of literacy courses. Though the official school entry
age is seven years, and local school management committees are encouraged
to adhere to this, there are still a wide range of ages among the pupils
enrolled. The pressures of growth are strongest in the rural areas, where
only recently have geographical inequities in the provision of basic
educational services begun to be reduced. In 1981/82 there were 6,208
primary schools in operation, both of government and non-government
dependency. Of these schools, 750 have been or are being financed by IDA
credits, about 4,780 have been built by community labor using SIDA
assistance, and the rest were provided by government or community
resources.
Secondary Schools
2.        Of the 588 weredas, only 133 presently have schools equipped to
teach effectively through the grade 10 level. Of these, 62 are attached to
higher secondary schools (HSS) which also cover grades 11 and 12. The
remaining 71 are lower secondary schools (LSS) serving grades 7 through
10. The general strategy of the Government is to provide at least one
equipped school through grade 10 for each wereda, and at least one equipped
school through grade 12 for each awraja, in order to increase geographical
equity in the provision of general education.
3.        In total there are 109 equipped government 1SS.  There are 87
awrajas with one or more HSS, with a concentration of these in the major
urban centers. Provision of improved facilities for 90 LSS and 15 HSS was
made under the Fifth Education Project. An additional seven HSS are being
upgraded under a recent ADF loan. The institutional and physical planning
needed for the implementation of equity in provision of secondary education
will require a gradual restructuring of enrollments to fit more accurately
the patterns of population distribution, and especially to relieve crowding
in urban secondary schools, where very large class sizes and double and
triple shifts are common.
Teacher training
4.         The training of teachers for primary schools is carried -ut in
the TTIs, which offer a ten month course for completers of grade 12. The
course includes general professional studies, special courses in the
primary school curriculum, reinforcement of general academic preparation,
practice teaching and literacy instructor trainiLg. The annual output



47 -                            Annex II
Page 2 of 3
capacity of the existing TTIs is 5,700. This is planned to expand to 6,800
by 19&4/85 through assistance from the ADF. Training of teachers for the
secondary schools and the TTIs takes place principally at the Kotobe
College of Teacher Education (for the LSS), the Bahir Dar Pedagogical
Institute and the University of Addis Ababa. Because of accumulated
backlogs and the continuing recent rapid growth of the education system at
all levels, these teacher training facilities are not adequate to meet
demand. As a result, some teachers are hired with partial or inadequate
qualifications. At the primary level, teachers receive upgrading through
programs at the TTIs, the APCs and the NCDC.
Technical and Vocational Education
5.         Until 1977, technical/vocational education was limited to one
technical school at each of Addis Ababa and Asmara, a commercial school at
Addis Ababa (now the JCC) and a polytechnic institute at Bahir Dar. Since
then, however, two additional technical/vocational schools, offering two
years of study for completers of grade 10, have been established, and eight
more are under development. This system had a total enrollment of 2,789 in
1981/82. Funds for the establishment of four technical/vocational training
institutes are provided under the recent ADF loan. There is as yet no
appropriate source of teachers for such schools though one would be
included in the proposed project.
Post-Secondary Education
6.         This is provided by the Ulniversities of Addis Ababa and Asmara,
and by a system of 18 specialized faculties and other post-secondary
institutions, six of which are under the direct control and administration
of the CHE.  (All are subject to coordination by the CPE.)  This system of
higher education began in 1950 with the establishment of the first faculty
of what is now the University of Addis Ababa. The Llniversity itself was
formed in 1961. The University of Asmara came under Ethiopian control in
1968, after having been begun by Italian missionaries in 1958. It became a
state university in 1979. Other institutions offering four-year degree
programs are the Alemaya Agricultural College and the Bahir Dar Academy of
Pedagogy. overall, the system of post-secondary institutions enrolled
9,670 degree students and 5,315 diploma students in 1981/82. Graduates
numbered 776 from degree programs and 1,972 from diploma programs at the
end of the 1980/81 academic year. In addition, there were 11,187 students
engaged in conti nuing education programs in 1981/82.
Nonformal Education
7.          The basis of nonformal education in Ethiopia is the national
campaign for eradication of illiteracy, launched in 1979 under the Nlational
Literacy Campaign Coordinating Cormmittee (NLCCC), which integrates the
contributions of some 28 government and non-government agencies to adult
literacy training. In 1974 illiteracy was estimated at 92% in the rural
areas and at 52% in the urban areas, giving an overall rate of 87% for
persons over 10 years of age. The rate for the population as a whole was
93%. The literacy campaign is carried out in t-wo rounds per year. A total
of 13.5 million persons participated, and 7.5 million were awarded literacy
certificates, through 1982. As a result of this and of expanded primary



Annex II
- 48 -                                Page 3 of 3
education facilities, the Government now claims a literacy rate of 53%.
Maintenance of newly obtained literacy skills has been encouraged by the
establishment of over 4,000 community reading rooms, to which over 23
million books of more than 50 titles in 15 languages have already been
produced and distributed. Application of literacy slills is further
developed through community skill training centers (CSTC), which the
Government hopes to establish in each wereda. There are presently 359 of
these. The Third, Fourth and Fifth IDA Education Projects provided for the
construction of 340 of these centers. To date, some 90,000 participants
have received training, 48,000 of these in longer term training for
specific skills. the trainees are regarded as communicators of improved
productive techniques to their communities, so that a second level of
benefit is thereby also anticipated.
8.         The DEEM has established a national network of 11 regional
one-kilowatt radio transmitters, with assistance from the Fourth Education
Project. These are used as reinforcement for the literacy campaign and for
post-literacy training activities, including those linked with development
activities by other agencies, as well as to augment the formal school
system. The MOE hopes to expand this network to a two-channel system in
the next three to four years, and eventuallv to three channels.



_ 49
ETHIOPIA                     Annex III
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF LOCATIONS FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS, LOWER SECONDARY
SCHOOLS AND AWRAJA PEDAGOGICAL CENTERS
1. Primary Schools
(a) Highest priority will be given to: (i) rural areas; and (ii)
weredas with only one school. Peasant Associations will determine
actual sites for the schools.
(b) Extensions of existing schools during the coming three years will
be the entire financial responsibility of the communities, with
technical assistance from MOE, with the exception of schools in
areas where materials or expertise are not available.
(c) New locations will be planned so that they do not duplicate
existing facilities. Decisions on new school locations will be
made at the local level and will take into account education
officers' reco-mendations.
(d)  Priority for new construction will (after catering for the
provision in (a) above) be accorded to those awrajas and weredas
where participation rates are below the national average.
(e) Primary schools to be financed under this project will be in areas
of remote access where constructlon by community participation is
deemed Impractical.
2. Secondary Schools
(a) Priority for new LSS will be given to weredas which presently have
no secondary schools, and to awrajas which are below the national
average in LSS participation rate. Exceptionally large weredas and
new settlement areas may justify additional LSS.
(b) Sites selected for LSS construction shall be reviewed and approved
by the Association prior to tendering.
3. Awraja Pedagogical Centers
(a) The plan is to have a properly equipped APC in each of the 106
awraj as.
(b)  Each of the APCs to be built under the Project will be sited in the
administrative capital of an awraja where no suitable APC
facilities yet exist, so as to provide ready access to all schools
in such awraja.
(c) Where possible, the APCs will be located adjacent to, or combined
with, the District Education Offices.
(d) The sites will be selected on the advice of the Regional
Development Committee, the District Education Officer and the MOE.
(e) Sltes will be selected where essential services are available.



- 50 -
Awmt IV
Page 1 of 2
SDa EIIX: PRWEI
SM5     OF S     rEaUST IE AUs SaIDIES
Hair     Starng
Prject Elmier                7itle            HDntls      Date      Sumary Job Desciption
Tecbical Asstls            Higer Eh&zamon       24         1-85      Assist CHE to awvert
to the aE                    Pi
ix£focnti0n to bigber
edcation system
evelopmt qdinde, and
to design imfonutiom,
plJarmg and    _
system.,
cmagwoz Systemr        12         1-86     Assist CHE to set up
Specialist                               amowtproceduires and
System to i ]Dpr± its
plan for higber education
-e,  hxldn
prep aratlon. of tmof
referercie for the staff
HE Traning               Staff Devekpnmt        36        10-84      Assist in progam plarmi
Center                   Spalis                                    and desigp, proction of
traindng muerials and
estabisahnent of i  itial
ratic  of the Ceter.
Support re
activities and prepare for
evaluation of the Ceter's
work as a wdle.
ME Planing               System Analyst         24         1-85      Implement ampiterLzed
Service                                                             data processing systen;
ir-   i  tn raixd   of
Planlng Service staff.
Educational Materials        M      Speialist  12           10-84    Assist the EMEDA to
Production and                                                     establish aa effective
Dlstijixition Agency                                                         system.
Prormt               24          10-84    Assist the EbDA to
Specialist(s)                            establish an effective
system for procing Exods
and services within its
area of res      ty.



-51 -                           AnncD'
Pgm 2 of 2
mm-    startin
PrOect PlemM                 Tit'             m1,Js       Dae    Sumu, Job Deierlption
Traruat Ma_Cin           mg.m"It Spedalist    36           4-85    Aals In oItabUshmemc E
and Maiztewm                                                     aa effectivemaget
FacLUty                                                           tes fw OP           and
fa the cvd2cle
fle of the ME.
Project  w m            Project                 48        10-85    Asss X     r i
RfEil (PLID)                                                     the PIDi     avvsi
of the Project Director.
Tedbical A    osssts=   48       1084    ProvIde AfrdStrat±ue
AM ulIstratw                            Se( lm Rn  wt of the
PlaumIn Asastance
Cipwuw of the Project.
Sdool Comtructlox        Civil Woks             48        1084    Assist the SOS to
and Mairtemom           Ozcdinrtor                               coordinate matel and
Service (SWS)                                                    othEr iqxt for the
czetxsttion of primary
sdxoJs anxd otber
hdbAln f erI the
Project.



- 52 -
ETHIOPIA                               Annex V
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT                       Table 1
PRET COST SMRY
(Dirr '000)               (US$ '000)                   Z Total
______________-  __-  -   hFreign  Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Freign  Total   Exchange   Costs
A. DIRECT EDUCATION CINFONENTS
PRIART SCDOOLS                          17,779   11,815  29,593   8,589  5,708  14,296           40       17
P.SCHOOL SCIENCE KITS                      870   2,610   3,490       420  19261   1,681          75        2
LOUER SECONDARY SCHOOLS                 204032  16,586  36618   99677  8,013  17,690             45       21
EDUIPBffT FOR HIHER S.S.                  226   1190   1,416        109    575      684         84        1
WATER SUPPLY FOR S.S.                    29113   2,020   4,133   1,021    976   1,997            49        2
PRIMARY T.T.C. (ASSELA)                  49156   3,463    79619   2,008  1,673   3s681           45        4
KUTOME COLLEGE OF T.ED.                  3,007   39266   69272   1,452  1I578   39030            52        4
PRODUCME TECH. TTC (NAZRETH)            199612  25,301  44,914   9,475 12,223  21,698            56       26
JUIIOR COLL6EE OF COIHERCE               2,923   3,291   6,204   19412  1,585   2,997            53       4
TECH. ASSISTANCE   TO  CE                  200      801   1,001       97    387      484         90        1
Sub-Total DIRECT EDUCATION ChIfONENTS       70,918  709333 141,251  34,260 33t977  689237            50      82
P. DUALITY IIFROUEIIENT
?A4RJA PED. CENTERS                      3,209   29194   59403   1,550  1,060   29610            41        3
flE TRAININ6 CENTRE                      2,270   1,978   4,248  1096    956   2,052             47       2
CURRICULUff DIEELOPENT                   1,900      100   2,000      918      48     966          5        2
EDUCATIONAL MASS MEDIA                   1,315   4,843   6,15B       635  29340   2,975          79        4
Sub-Total OUALITY I'ROUDEIEIT                8,693   9,115  17,808   4,200  4,403   8,603            51      10
C. SUPPORT SERVICES
HOE PLASIIN6 SERVICE                       197   1,043   1,240        95    504      599         84        1
EIPDA HEADQURIERS FtNCTIONS              1,962   3,199   5,161       948  1,545   2,493          62        3
CHWLK PRODUCTION                           951    1,087   2,039      460    525      985         53        1
REGIONAL FURNITURE PRODUCTION              305      317     622      147    153      301         51       0
TRANSPORT HANVAEIENT                     1,124   2,289   3,413       543  P1w06   19649          67        2
PROJECT iANAGEENT                          454      406     860      219    196      415         47        0
Sub-Total SUPPORT SERVICES                   4,P993   8,342   13,335   2,412  4,030   6,442          63       8
Total BASELINE COSTS                          94,604   87,790  172,394   40s872 42,411   83,282        51     100
Phssical Contingencies                      7,530    8,358  15,889   3,63B  4,038   79676           53        5
Price Contingencies                        19,4'   199093  389,55   9,417  9,224   18,640           49      22
Total PROJECT COSTS                          111,627  115,242  226,868  53,926 55,672  109,598         51     132
June ll, 1984 13:01



- 53 -
ETHII'I
SIXTH EWCAIlN PLET                                    Annex V
S1RT  ZCCUIITS CMST gnAr                                Tab le 2
Ilirr '000                (tlS '000)                   Z Totl
Z Formig*n  l
Local  Fortibn  Total    Loca  Foruign Total   Ewetm          Costs
I. INSWE5JIET tSTS
A. CIVIL ioS
Site DhvlOPm1t                            169443  10M9M   27,405   7M943  5,29   1323             40       16
Acadosic Nd Camul                         449939  22.264  67#204  21,71O  10.756  32,465          33       39
Dkfitories                                 4.310    3.207   3.016   2.324   19549   3.873         40        5
Hsirnu                                     1.63    1.034   29709       785    523   1,309         40        2
Sb-Total CimLm                               67.317  37.516 105.333  320762 13.124  50406            36       61
B. FRITt7E
Localli Procrud                           1331   1.996   39327        643    964   1.607         60        2
W  Procured                                1.274   7pM23   99290       760  37M    4.491          33        5
Sub-Total FIRNIIIUE                           2,95   9.719  129624   19403  4.695   6.0M             77        7
C. EUIPIEIIT. rTERItSP 'EHICES
EAuimt                                     5692  21.314  349076   2,750  13,712  16A462           33       20
HIl   tools                                   21       91     112       10     44       54        31        0
Bids. Ihtrials                             1.350   4,050   5S400       652  1W957   2.609         75        3
licls                                        959   2M04    3,005       463    98M   1.452         68        2
Sub-Total WIIPIENT. HATRtILS. YIUDUS          3.023  34.271  42,593   3.976 169701  20.577           81       25
3. PIRFESIfL. SEVICS
Ardcitactwal                               1.541      436   2.027      744    25       979        24        1
simrvisiom                                   633       78     711      306     38      344        11        0
Esuip. Prommnnt                              762      230     m        368    111      479        23        1
Si-Total PUIESSI         SERVICES             2.936     794   3729   1.41B    334   14P02            21        2
E. IEIKMAL CSISTMNCE
Sieort tar TA                                  -       10      10        -      5        5       100        0
Ln term TA                                   605   3.427   4M032    m29   1,65    194             85        2
Sub-Total lEOC    ASSISTIE                      605   3.437   4P042    m2    1660   1,953            a5        2
F FELOUPS
StudyTuws                                      -       72      72        -     35       35       100        0
Long Ts FL                                    19   1,411    1.500        9    716      725        99        1
Sub-Total FELL1UINIPS                            19   1.553   19572        9    750       75                   I 1
S. URlURIM   STAF/NEVL.                       1900      100   2000       913      48      966         5        1
H. M8       _nECT  If TTIN
l.ratig  EWcu                                400      100     500      193     48      242        20        0
Su-Total PRJIECT MAIINISTRATION                 400      100     50       193    4U       242        20        0
Total INESiENIT COSTS                           84.604  87.790 172J394  40.872 42.411  B3.232           51      100
PMsical ContaMncios                           79530   8.35B  15,889   3,6381  4033   7.676           53        9
Price Cultill,ios                            19.492  19.093  33.505   9.417  9.224  1S440            49       22
Total INIIIIIS 0n11CES                         111.627  115.242 226h868  533926 5S62  109.591           51      132
=    _          -         =                           .,_
Total DAELIJ CSTS                                84.604   079790 172.394   4D0872 42.411  83.232         St      100
Phsical C.it±nmci.s                            7.530   8355  15.M89   3.633   4.0        79676        53        9
Price Contiagmrcies                           19.492  19.093  3BMSM5   9,417  9,224  13.440           49       22
Tot  PRIOECT COSTS                              111.627 115.242 226.M68  53S926 55,672 109.N9            51     132
Je  11. 184 13:02



- 54 -
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUXTII
Sumaru Account bh P
(pi rr '0001
DIRECT EDUCATION CUNPONENTS
P.SCHOOL  LOER   E2UIPNENT   NATER   PRIMARY    OT08E  PROUCTIVE  JUNIOR           TECH.
PRIMR  SCIENCE  SEMDIARY FOR HIGHER SIiVPLY FOR T.T.C. CMLLEGE OF TECH. TTC COLLEGE OF ASSISTAI
SCHOOLS  KITS   SCHOOLS    S.S.        S.S.   (ASSELA)  T.ED.   (NAZRETH)  COIMERCE         CHE
I. INVESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL UOS
Site Development                               -        -    6,331          -      3W300    19729       960     89478        759
Acdemic and Comaumal                      15,390        -   25,323          -         -   2,030       1,778    10,490      39411
Dormitories                                    -        -        -          -          -   I1923      1,370      4,723         -
Housing                                        -        -        -          -          -     966          -      1,743
Sub-Total CIVIL VMRKS                        151390        -   314654                 W 3,300   6,647    4,109    25t434      4,171
B. FURNIIURE
Locallh Procured                           3,267        -        -
ICB Procured                                   -        -    29220          -         -      655        650      4,41        595
Sub-Total FURNITURE                           3,267        -    2,220          -         -      655        650     4,641        595
C. EOUIPMENT, MATERIALS vEHICLES_
Esuipeent                                  29700   3,480    29463       1w416        033     29B      19300    11O00         955
Hand tools                                   112                       -        -                         -         -          -
Blod. Materials                            5,400        -
Jehicles                                   1,684        -
Sub-Total EAtIPRENT9 MATERIALSP VEHICLES      9,896   3,480    2,463       1,416        833     290      1,300    11,900        955
D. PROFESSIONAL SERvICES
Architectural                                  -        -      ID          -         -        -        213      1,187       205
Supervision                                  320        -      1O                            20          -         -          -
Emuip. Procurement                             -        -        -                                        -        952        39
Sub-Total PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                 320       -       280                    -       20        213     29139        244
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Short ters TA                                  _        _        _                                         _ 
Lon ter  TA                                  720        -        -          -         -        -          - D                  _
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 720        -         -          -         -                             -          -
F. FELLOIISHIPS
Studs Tours                                    -        -        -          -         -        -          -         -          -
Long Ter FL                                    _        _        -          -         -        -          -       800        240
Sub-Total FELLOiSHIPS                             _       _         -          -         -        -         -        800        240
G. CURRICUILWM STAFF/DEMEL.                       _       _         _          _         _        _          _         -          -
H. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Operating Expences
Sub-Total PROJECT AIIINISTRATION                  -                                -               -              -               -
Total INUESTlENT COSTS                          29,593   3,480   36,619       1,416     4,133   7,619       6,272    44,914      69204
Total BASELINE COSTS                             29i593   3,480   36,618       1.416     4,133   7,619       6,272    449914      6,204
Physical Contingencies                         29143      348    3,662        142       413      762        627     49451        608
Price Contingencies                            7P308   1P113    99254          62     1,147    1s688        980    10,255        859
Total PROJECT COSTS                              39,044    4,941   494533      1,620     5,693   10,069     7,880     59,620      7,671
Taxes                                          3.251     445    4,452         259       683   1,169       1,089     7,855        930
Foreign Exchange                              15P259   3,697   229338       1,361     2,770   4,583       49104    34,183      49027
June 11 1984 12:59



- 54 -
ETHIOPIA
AICOTIN PROJECT                                                                                                                 Annex V
by Project CowDnwnt                                                                                                            Table 3
(lirr '0002
DUALITY IMPROEIMENT                                    SUPPORT SERVICES
Phtszcal
TECH.     AHARJA   HOE                                WOE       EIIPDA                REGIONAL                                  Continsewns
-iSTANCE TO  PED.  TRAINING CURRICULUN  EDUCATIO8NL PLANNING HEADOUARTERS  CHALK   FURNITURE  TRANSPORT   PROJECT
CHE      CENTERS  CENTRE DEVELOPMENT MASS MEDIA  SERVICE   FUNCTIONS  PROMIUCTION PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT AANAGEIIENT   Total      p   Amount
-   39738       082          -         125         -          564          -          -        540          -    27,405   10.0  2.740
-    1,495    2520           -         626         -        1,610      1P322        300        900          -   67,204    8.9  5,951
_       _        _           _           _ -         -               -                -          -          -     98016   10.0    902
_       _        _           _           _         _            _          _          _          ._-    2,70?   10.0    271
5,233    3,402          -         751         -        2,174      1.322        301      1,440          -   105,333   9.3   9764
60        -                      -                            -         -          -                -     3,327   10.0    333
_       -      179           -          90         -          268                                           -    9.297  10.0    930
_      60      179           -          90         -          268          -          -          -          -    12,624  10.0  1P262
100      70      156           -       5.307       500          893        649        105        952          -    34,076    9.7  3,318
_        -         -         -                     -            -          -          -          -          -       112   0.0       0
_       -         -          -           -         -            -          -               -                -    5,400   10.0    540
109       _        _           _           _         -        1,043          -        169          -          -    3,005  10.0    301
209      70       156          -       59307       500        1,935        649        274        952          -   429593   9.8  4.159
_       _        _           _           _         -          113         69         40        101          -    2,027   10.0    203
_      40      151           -           -                      -          -          -                     -       711  10.0       71
.-  _            __  -  -                                                  _          _          _          _       991   10.0      99
-      40      151           -           -         -          113         69         40        101          -    30729   10.0    373
_                _-          -          10         _            -          -          -          -                   10   5.0        1
720       _      360           -           -       5            600                              720        360     4,032    5.0    202
720       -      360           -          10       552          600          -          -        720        360    4,042    5.0    202
-         -        -        ~-    -                 -         -           72          ---                             -        72  5,0         4
72       _        _           _                   188            -          -          -        200          -     1500    5.0    7h,
72                                                Is e _  18    72          -          -        200          -     1,572   5.0       79
_            _        -        -       2,000           -         _            -          _          _          _          _    2,000    0.0        0
_   .  _   _   _   _   _          _          -          -          -        500       500  10,0       50
_            _        _        _           _           _         _            _          -          -          -        SOO       50O   10.0      50
19001   5,403    4,248       2,000       6,158     1,240        5,161      2,039        622      3,413        860   1729394    9.2  15BB9
1.001    5,403    4,248      2,000       69158     19240        5,161      2,039        622      39413        060  172,394    9.2  15,889
61     540      407           -         615        87           393       204         62        29          68   15,999   0.0         0
92    1,954     520          gO         380        115         965        457         84      19025        247   389585   8.4  3.245
1.154    7,897    5,174      2.080       79154      19442       6.519      2.699        769      49733      19175   226,868   8.4  1?9134
106     070      517           -       1,097       109          910        344        154        432         62   244733   8.8  2.111
923   3,182    2.424         204       5,591     1,214        3,91d      1448         389      3,178        550   115,242    8.7 10,025



- 55 -                                   Annex V
Table 4
ETHIOPIA - SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
FISCAL YEAR (July 1 -June 30)        85              1986         1987         1988         1989        1990    |
CALENDAR YEAR                        84        1985 5      1986         1987         19           1989       90
EFFECTIVENESS/CLOSING DATES                    JANUARY 1, 1985                         June 32, 1990
A. DIRECT EDUCATION OOSTS
Primary Schools Constr.
Civil Works                        00 oo 00 00 xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture                                00 00 00 xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
P.S. Science Kits                    oo J   --  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx ME xx xx xx xx xx
Lower Secondary Schools
Civil Works                   #9  -      xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment                      oo oo #f D# -- _ xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Equipment for H.S.S.         00 f#   - -  xx xx
Water Supply for S.S.                      00 00 xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Asela P.T.T.C
Civil Works                        oo tf -  -  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment                   oo J ft         -  _      xx xx xx xx
Kotobe College of T. Ed.
Civil Works                JJ ft  --xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment            oo  o0  tt Jf  -- -y   xx xx xx_
Productive TTTC (Nazaret)
Civil Works                JJ J  -  -  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment           oo  o f    -  - _.                   xx xx xx xx
Junior College of Co merce
Civil Works        J        t   ft -    xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment        oo 00  f  JJ -  _ xx xx xx xx
B. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Awarja Ped. Centres (APC)
Civil Works                                     JJ f  _  _ xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture/Equipment                         oo 11J9Y  -- -- -a xx xx xx xx xx xx XX xx xx xx
MOE Training Centre
Civil Works                Of ff   -- '- xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Furniture, Equipment               oo ft -- -- xx xx        xx xx
DEMM New Offices
Civil Works               fJ   ft     -  -- xx xx xx xx xx
Equipsent                     00  oo #9eot*_  --  xx xx xx
C. SUPPORT SERVICES
EMPDA Headquarters
Clvil Works                         J     f -  -  -  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Chalk projection
Civil Works                        oo fJ  fJ  fe  fJ JJ     - xx xx xx xx xx xx
Equipment                             00         J ft --    xx xx           xx xx xx
Transport Management
Civil Works                    t # of JJ# If -  -xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx
Equipment                             oo 1 fJ  -  -  xx xx                         xx xx xx
CIVIL WORKS                                     FURNITURE/EQUIPMENT
//J/J  Appointment o  Consultants                      //// Appointment of Consultants
ooooo  Brlef, site selection                           ooooo Lists
JitfJ  Design - Bld document                           JttJt Bid document
---  Tender, award                                     --   Tender, award
xxxxx  Construction                                    xxxxx Manufacture, Dellvery



- 56 -                                Annex V
ETHIOPIA                                 Table 5
Page 1 of 3
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
INDICATORS OF PROJECT INPWENTATION
COKPONENT          OBJECTIVE                         TARCSTS                   INDICA-ORS
1. Direct Zducation   Expand the capacity,        A. Bulld 450 four-classroom        Number of schools
effectiveness and             primry schools.                built, equipped and In
geographic equity of                                         uae.
primary and lower
socondary schools,        S. Support manufacture of 6,000  Mumber of kits
together with the             primary school science kits. assembled and
training of teachers                                         delivered.
for thoe schools.
C. Build 30 lover secondary       Number of LSS built,
schoole (LSS).                equipped and In use.
D. Provide Instructional          Proportlon of
equlpment for seven higher    designated equipment
secondary schools.            ilstalled and In use.
Z. Provide safe and adequate      Number of schoole with
water supply for 20           new water supply in
secondary schools.            operation.
F.  Construct one primary         New TTI built,
teacher tralung institute    equipped and in
(TrI).                        operstlon.
G. Expansion and Improvements    Proportion of
at Kotobe College of Teacher designated works and
Education.                    equipment built or
Installed, and in use.
H. Build ad  equip a new          New college built,
college of productive         equlpped, staffed an
technology teacher traIning   in use.
for about 800 students.
- Provide 20 man-years of       Number of staff in
staff training prior to       traLned and in
initial operation of the      service.
college.
I.  Build and equip an expansion  Expanded facilities
of the Junior College of      built and in use.
comerce (JCC) to
accommodate 280 additional
students.
- Provide six man-years of       Number of staff
fellowships  for JCC staff.  trained and returned
to service.
J.  Provide slx man-years of       Specialists on post
speciallst services to the    and performing
CHE for project maagement.  effectively.
- Provide 18  an-months          Staff trained and
of fellowships for CHE.       returned to service.



Annex V
Table 5
- 57                                            Page 2 of 3
COMPONENT              OBJECTIVE                        TARGETS                          INDICATORS
2.  Quallty             Take steps to Improve       A.  Construct ten awraja            Number of APCa built,
lprovement.        the quallty of                  pedagogical center. (APC)       equipped and In use.
educational services
through curriculum         3.  Construct a training center   Training center bullt,
development, *staff             for the MOE.                    equipped and In use.
training and                                                    Number of staffwseks
supervisLon, and mass                                           of training provildd.
media applications.
C.  Provide fund. for support of  Number and nature of
materials production,           activities carried
seminars, workshops and         out, and number of
commissioned writer, by the   staffweeks of training
National Curriculum             provided.
Development Center (NCDC).
D.  Provlde an additlonal           Number of transmitters
ten-kw radlo transmitter to   Installed and In use.
each of 11 Department of
Educatlonal Hass Medla
(DEHO) stations.
- Expand DEM headquarters         New facillties built
facilities.                     and In us.
- Build seven local studio        Number of buildings
building  for DENN.             built and In use.
- Carry out field strength        Survey completed and
survey on existing              report delivered.
transmlrsson network.
3.  Support Service    Increase operatlonal         A.  Provide two man-years of        Specialist on poet and
effectivenes' by                computer systems analysle       performing
strengthening                   speclallt  ervices to the    effectively.
essential support               Ministry of education (HOE).
services.
- Provide computer hardware       Equlpment delivered,
and software and other          Installed and in
equipment to the MOE.           regular use.
- Provide 47 man-monthe of        Staff trained and
fellowships and In-country    returned to service.
tralng to MOE staff re
computer systes and their
use.
B.  Build and furnish a new         Construction and use
headquarters bullding for       of the headquarters
the Educational Materials      buildlg.
Production and Distributlon
Agency (EMPDA)-
- Provide three men-years         Execution of
specialist services and 12    designated program of
man-months of fellowships to  speciallst services
strengthen management and      and fellowships.
procurement capabilitles of
the EMPDA.



Annex V
rable 5
- 58 -                         *aige*T*of 3
C4MPONENT              OU ECTIVE                         TARGETS                      INDICUTORS
-  Purchase five trailer trucks  Number of noV truck.
for delivery of school books  1D service, and
and materlal by EUPDA.         quantity of books and
msterials delivered on
schedule.
-  Provslion of spare parts for  Provision of the parte
educational equipment          according to a
malntenance and repalr.        detignated schedule.
C.  Build and equip a chalk,       New chalk production
procactcon unit to replAce    unit built and In
the exslting one.              operatlon and meting
education systes
requirements for
chalk.
D. Provide workshop buildings.   Provislon and
equipment, vehicles and a      operational use of the
curing shed for regional       designated bulings,
furniture production units.   etc.
Z. Constructlon and equipping    Facillty built and In
of a vehicle maintenance and  operatlon.
repair facility for the
HOE.
- Provide three mn-years         Execution of
specialist services and five  deeignated progr_ of
man-years fellowships to       *peclallt services
support Improved operation    and fellovehips.
of the vehicle fleet and
the new facility.
F. Provide support for             Effectlve management
efficlent operatlon of the    of project
Project Management Office      lmplementation.
(WHO).
- Provide four an-years of       Project coordinator oD
Project Coordliator            poet and performing
services.                      effectively.
- Provide four an-years of       Adulnistrator on post
Technical Asslitance           and performaig
Administrator services.        effectively.
- Four man-years of Civil        Coordinator on post
Works Coordinator              and performing
specialist servicea.           effectively.
- 40 man-years of clerk of       Qualified clerks on
works speclallet services.    post and performing
effectlvely.



- 60 -
mIEIEM,T                                        Annex VI
sLPm  DoamaD5 Ab DATA AVALMXE   IS E PEECE ME
A. lbmmems ftlated to tlhe l&catim Sector
1. SecFtor Suvey of Ethiopa EiAtiui 1983, tDE, Jun 1983:
Volim 1: Th Crath of a Iarning Sodety.
Voluc 2: Policy Posiicm£ and I MD/A Crdit Propm   (Annes 1-5).
Voluz 3: Statistical Da and inulysis (hAec 6).
2. Ethlopia: Tertiay   wAtioa and Netiga Deve1i t, UDeso, October
1983 (Draft, Firat Revision).
3. Tway Yews of Ehpeie In the Refam, Radirectio  am  Exq.asio of
Educatio  Servios: The Cae of Etopia, MOE. ta 12.
4.  ctract frn dte Cearral Report of Chal=en MI Lant HalXe Hari,
Second Cagres of aE, Jamiary 1983.
5. 1974 E.C. (1981/82 Sdmol Year M!-,L    Fmti 1  Statistim, MLE,
Auwst 1982.
6. Fects anFip-m, ME, June 1982.
7. Eucation In Erhia 197-82: The Ioct of Sindish Asistac, SlM,
Jue 1983.
S. A Statistial Report an Pr y Acaton in Ethiopia  f, 1982.
9. Etoida: Eduatim Profie, The Brltibh  .d1, April 3979.
B. Doat Reate  to the Project
1. Project Pposal for knett In Mrac.acl Iletin;os, Tnrng
of P   ml and Support Servwcs. ME, June 1983.
2. IJest Bect     sat fo Cr&t for the ferwA  V of the ColL   of
Teeaher EUAtio  and  he  e_ bUshm   of Productive Teftolo'
TePhe 1T-iag r-nege at Ivreth. DE, Mms 283.
3. PLst to M/mA far Cret 2roq  for TIvst  in FAxstatinl
Instim, TraIn   of Persomel ad Supprt Serie: Data for
Irtification of Projert CQoats, ICE, Janiay 1!83.
4. Pauest to African Deuelopmt Find for Loan ThDzlg or ProjDt for
Contiudzig nLpgrdu  of the QLt of Edcatio in Et i, i,
rl~er 1982.
5.   trrimlau for TechniAal Teachr Educatio in  nLzxsra Pro&cive
,TGlE,CE, Sqebr SS2.
6. A S& ry of ActivItles ad Prospects of Futue De       at of the
/sa  Pedagcal Cnters, ME, 19P3.
7. Project Proposal for IDA (6) lon: Strnghes1v and Mq.xmg the
fmtisl Sdhool of Adid Abeob.
8. An Out1we of Tedmical Astare Fimocirg Neli of Adit Ser5ic
,  Fedeselasse Bez3td, General Mampr, Felmary 1983.
9. Vehicle Misintee Study, Ray Joigensen Associates, Inc.. !*W y983.
10. Su=uy of A      s  to MD  (6) Proje  Proposal ad Alpficatio r    of
Project YJustificatiomm, ME, F-debnmy 1,  84.
C.  'bdgPpz
1. 2-rief an 7ea      Educatio  ln Ehopia, J;s S. Parris, Septr*er 17,
2983.
2. Ethiopia: l=rovemnt of the (uieLUty of Sdxhollog ,  : to fUes.
Barbazz Seare. lar-di 3, 1983.



- 59 -
Annex V
Table 6
ETHIOPIA - SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
FISCAL YEAR  QUARTER   DISBURSEMENT ACCUMULATED UNDISBURSED
1985       3          1.0                   69.0
4         1.0        2.0        68.0
1986       1          1.0        3.0        67.0
2         2.0        5.0        65.0
3         3.0        8.0        62.0
4         4.0       12.0        58.0
1987       1          4.0       16.0        54.0
2         4.0       20.0        50.0
3         5.0       25.0        45.0
l4        4.0       29.0        41.0
1988       1          5.0       34.0        36.0
2         4.0       38.0        32.0
3         4.0       42.0        28.0
4         4.0       46.0        24.0
1989       1          4.0       50.0        20.0
2         3.0       53.0        17.0
3         3.0       56.0        14.0
4         3.0       59.0        11.0
1990       1          3.0       62.0         8.0
2         3.0       65.0         5.0
3         3.0       68.0         2.0
4         2.0       70.0



ARAB REP      .              tr                                                   le-  3  .4Ro.o.
L1BYA       OF 
EGYPT    .'.    SAUDI _
ARABIA                                                     K_.:
C$OAD                   1      -                                                              i..
I S U D A N         -              .                         r Abtb$    or 1.'
r  Add. NAdhd
rc EN! Lb.b0 I  *e            _                                     .~ NaiAb
9fF    \                                                                                    AlEoThPi
_   -__r   _~~-{SOMAIA                                           
AfRICAN '~~~DI I'11
E V              C-  A                       Sdo 8.               n h
Z A I R f   LI
c,,dt~~ _F;;,'1.                                              A s°rn t
/Y  MeS         $      ~~~~~~~Alm,> Ad ^.
'B.~~~~~~~~~~0                       S
UGANDA  I   -                              /~/-o. a.       1 
I. .-~~0
TANZANIA~~~~~~~~~~ Asmeo -iro,  -.
,,-.    Sd GoalN.' oar   SdZnl
'I.                 .a A. . -  Intb-w b'o
/  >  b     <             2         F      -   iron Mad..'
j~~~   ~~~~ i...                            V  g'b      NEmeou  zd  nr@a  
jj 5.do7° 33        A,_ Gr 0
-!- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                       *51.11.1,lzbC
Bu'tod',Ie                                                   T.nrk- 9Ao$ 
t~~
-r,                                t.*19          -    ;2ZcnhE --i                  MochaG B..N
D._-,   ._:27fe                              e    rzo_
ic-                               VsO  S.        .
Gd...| *   Tobdao                                                  . aa2  /*~1~0 Mh
D.b.oI.~ Du            ,1'                _ 30                          _.o. qp f.nh
_~~~~~~~.p4   .-                     pjm   PS.        B,.                    g.o.
4.7                                                            2.:  '
U  /A N DA  1C' t                     K, -E   N   r   A  \-   -- .n
15o                                 0. Wao6    h.h..r4-
Jo~~u  ,    *2Q          ,PSedp
'K                                        ak~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r..,
-ft.. ~ ~ ~ g.
-C. ~   ~     N
K.   E       N      Y      A    '---.            a,i
UGANDA                                                              Y     aOvl



l1RD 15058
4j6RosCer                                                                   L                                                                          MARCH 198d
tt.                                                                                                        ET H 1OP I-A
OMWMIOV                                                                                SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
U   Pnmary Teocher Training College (Asela)             *   Lower Secondary Schools
A   Korobe College of Teocher Education                 V   Woter Supply for Secondary Schoats
/J-.          S   Productive Technology Teocher Training Colleo       4   Awrojo Pedagogical Centers
9 Aiob.-                                                                                              Roads:
-  .  _  Aspholtall.weather
-   x                                                                                     Gravel, all-weather                                    0'
Rural and/or dry-weother
voe*e'                                                                                   Roods under construction:
-_o    Nroih:....>  ,                                                                                 Asphalt all-weather
Z Do_ehew-.                                                                            -r=   Grovel, all-weather
-lo C                     II.
Au 1                                                                                                 Railways
A;*                    A              \- Rivers
M,^O^;9A>^o   |          A de              \                                                      65\   Notionat capital
tAd Sto   Ed                                                 Administrotive region capitols
Ab., Ad.O    >                                                                                --I International boundories
Sb,         d.d.O-        
\MewlOe   Ad. ppAc
5mb
L.okb.l.o,. V7?IKbQ                                                                                                                                           I
fled!,.                Logic             -  DJIBOUTI
'i °C 0V>                   f                                  v
_=D~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I0u                                                            M         I               AE 
21    5        Abno;o-  ^  %  
- -e n";. f2*/07 JS5 
Solo- ~ ~    ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         A
we.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~F
J,h,.    onD,,,,DCt57                       _      / 
15"e ABEBA          A/ h.   f           ."'o
DD S~~~~~~ ABE~                                 13                                                    S     0   MA        A      L     I     A
:o       ~~,r   bwn K               u  °    t   
{ v,,0          ls&ir.h, ;         .12      M.vli...     /                                      '
No| ''   M.i.. -/^°hElst                               5Cbt'_                                |/
I         D.g.h L'                                           D.b - o---   I   ;  /
JEI hobo..                            -,                             /,th                                                                   O
N-Z-l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~E K-. 
--    - 
r                                          -/
Al..,   -                       ,..D4o .. //r
.   _   . =                                            It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS O  So    100   150   200   250   300   350  4*00
t   -'  ' J        /                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~MILES 00 100      150        200       250
S-  _-_D  -.bosol-                               / 
_.No'..t                   -.             -- /2



