Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cA? /5-) il- 
Report.No- P-3 87i 1-F I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INUERMATIONAL DEVELIOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EOUIVALENT TO SDR 67.3 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SIXTH1. EDUCATION PROJECT
August 15, 1984
| This dcument has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BanK sutiorization.  |



CU-RENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
USS 1.00   Br 2.07
Br 1.00   US$0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government:  July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND i-4EASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                        2.205 pounds (lb)
I frescula (fr)                                        17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                                     1 quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)                                      2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                                         2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (kmin                                      0.62 miles (ml)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APC             : Awraja Pedagogical Center
CHE             . Commission for Higher Education
CPSC            : Central Planning Supreme Council
CSTC            : Coomunity Skill Training Center
DEMH            : Department of Educational Mass Media
EMPDA           : Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
HSS             : Higher Secondary School
JCC              : Junior College of Commerce
LSS              : Lower Secondary School
MOE              : Ministry of Education
NCDC             : National Curriculum Development Center
PHO             : Project Management Office
SCMS            : School Construction and Maintenance Service
SSEPC           : School Science Equipment Production Center
TTI             : Teacher Training Institute (Primary level)
UPE             : Universal Primary Education
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OFCILL USE ONLY
ETIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:       Ethiopia
Amount:         SDR 67.3 million (US$70.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Education
Terms:          Standard
Project
Objectives
and
Description:    The proposed project will support the Government's educational
objectives which are designed to alleviate the shortages of
trained manpower that are pressing constraints on its ability to
implement investment programs necessary to achieve economy-wide
growth over the long term, and also to improve the quality ave.
equity of the educational system.  In this respect, the proposed
project will expand the capacity, effectiveness and geographical
equity of primary and lower secondary schools, improve the
quality of education primarily through curriculum development
and training programs, and strengthen educational support
services.
Risks:          Based on past experience with education projects in Ethiopia,
the risks are expected to be minimal. The principal risks
relate to possible delays in the provision of adequate staff to
fully utilize the facilities to be provided under the project,
and to possible delays in the construction of primary schools
and of building maintenance due to a shortage of qualified "
technical and managerial staff. To help reduce these risks, the
Government has prepared plans satisfactory to the Association
for staffing the facilities, and the project gill provide for
necessary technical assistance.
documet hus a rewicd diuuibution and MAy be used by recipients only in the performance of]
tl* cirl duties Its contents may not otwisc be disclond without World Ebunk authorintioz



-i$i -
Estimated Project Costs:
USS Million
Local     Foreign     Total
COMPONENT
A.  Direct Education                      34.3         34.0       68.3
B.  Quality Improvement                    4.2          4.4        8.6
C.  Support Services                       2.4          4.0        6.4
Total Baseline Cost                   40.9        42.4        83.3
Physical Contingencies                3.6         4.1         7.7
Price Contingencies                   9.4         9.2        18.6
Total Project Cost                        53.9         55.7      109.6
Taxes and Duties                          11.9          -         11.9
Total Project Cost (net of taxes and
duties)                                42.0         55.7       97.7
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Hillion
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                                14.3        55.7        70.0
Government of Ethiopia                    39.6          -         39.6
TOTAL                                     53.9         55.7      109.6
-             - 
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year            FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual:                      2.0    10.0    17.0    17.0    13.0    11.0
Cumulative:                  2.0    12.0    29.0    46.0    59.0    70.0
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 4948a-ET, dated August 8, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 67.3 million (US$70.0 ilIlion equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a sixth education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled Ethiopia,
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects, was circulated to the
Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's findings are reflected in the
following paragraphs. A summary of social and economic data is included In
Anne% I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        Ethiopia, with a population estimated at about 33 million In
1982, is the third most populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and
Egypt). About 85 percent of the total population is rural. The country's
Land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be broadly
divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
around 1.4 million.
4.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, accounting
for about 50 percent of CDP, 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of total
employment.  The major food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal),
maize, barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and potash. Some
petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum



reserves nave yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
oi a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Haundicrafts and small industry are operated by private owners. Domestic
trade, especially retail trade, and road transport are still largely in
private hands. Public sector control and ownership covers all of banking
and insurance, shipping, railway, airways, utilities, almost all of
large-scale manufacturing, and a large proportion of construction.
5.        With an estimated GNP per capita of around US$140 (1982) and with
a vast proportion of the population (estimated at around 60 percent) living
below the absolute poverty level, Ethiopia remains amongst the poorest
countries in the world. Over the past decade, value added in agriculture
grew at only around l.1 percent per annum, compared with a population
growth rate of 2.5 percent per annum. Problems are bound to be aggravated
by the projected population growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum. An
estimated three million people displaced by military conflicts and
persistent droughts call for relief and rehabilitation. Health services in
Ethiopia are limited and require major improvements to combat high rates of
morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality. Life expectancy is still at
a low level of about 46 years. Housing and sanitation facilities,
especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent attention.
Notwithstanding the country's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The litcracy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 Ipercent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 poercent to 47 percent over the same
period. Agrarian reforms, in addition, have led to increased food
consumption in rural areas and to a more egalitarian distribution of
incomes. These schievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1982/83, the gross
domestic product grew at an average annual rate of only 2.2 percent in real
terms.
7.        The years 1974/75 through 1977/78 were marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts which resulted in stagnation and in
some cases even declines of production in the commodity producing sectors.
The economy recovered thereafter, with GDP growth averaging 5.4 percent per



- 3 -
annum during 1978/79 and 1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or
Zecetchas) paved the way for this recovery through a target-setting and
monitoring process, combined with increased budgetary allocations to
agriculture and industry. Growth occurred mainly in agriculture, which
benefited from good weather, and from industry, through a greater
utilization of industrial capacity. The economy, however, vitnessed a
set-back during the following three years ending 1982183, with GDP growth
declining to around 2.9 percent per annum; the decline would have been
more severe but for a moderate recovery in 1982/83. The principal causes
for this set-back were droughts which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years
below 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings, which had averaged around 4 percent
of GDP in the recent past, fell below 3 percent during 1981/82 and
1982/83. In addition, inflows of official development assistance have
remained low in recent years, averaging only around US$6 per capita as
compared to over US$20 per capita for developing countries in Africa.
8.        Ethiopia also experienced a sharp deterioration in tne terms of
trade in recent years. The terms of trade index (1979/80 base) declined by
about 27 percent during the three-year period ending 1982/83, reflecting
mainly the decline in coffee prices and increased import prices. The value
of imports rose significantly in recent years while the value of exports
declined (see Annex I). Consequently, the current account deficit widened
to about 7 percent of GDP in 1981/82 and 1982/83. These external account
deficits were financed by significant increases in long-term capital,
reflecting in large part disbursements of concessional loans from various
sources, and also by a moderate increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external
debt service ratio, which had been of the order of 6 percent of export
earnings in the late 1970s, increc.aed sharply to about 11 percent in
1982/83, as export earnings declined and more debt service payments fell
due.
9.        Notwithstanding these adverse trends, govermuent fiscal and
monetary management has been prudent.  The country has a relatively
competent public service and in general, its ministries, departments and
public enterprises are well managed. There has been little evidence of
luxury consumption, and public investment levels were manageable up to
1981/82. The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for
the period 1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were
achieved in these years. But during 1982/83, the overall budget deficit
rose to a level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a
near doubling of capital expenditure and an increase in current
expenditure, reflecting in large part a government decision to settle
arrears due to parastatals in one year. The trend was similar in regard to
money supply. During the three-year period ending June 1982, money supply
increased by around 8.5 percent per year. But during the year 1982/83,
money supply increased by over 15 percent. Net credit to the Government



expanded by 68 percent in 1982/83 owing to the massive increase in
governoeat finsacing requirements. Meanwhile, net credit to the private
sector declined by about 10 percent in 1982/83. The inflation rate (as
measured by the Addis Ababa retail price index) dropped from an average of
13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 4 percent during the three
year period ending 1982/83.
10.       The Government has taken a number of decisions since late 1982 to
reverse these deteriorating trends. With a view to introducing a
short-term focus, the Government's ten-year plan is to be phased into three
sub-plans - a two-year plan, a three-year plan and a five-year plan.
Official pronouncements have stressed the importance of revitalizing
agriculture through guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved
technology to farmers; the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs
engaged in small scale industry; and the need to attract foreign investment
and tecbnology to develop the country's resources.
11.       Senior government officials were reassigned in April 1983, with
the intent of strengthening the key ministries concerned with economic
development. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic. Since
1978, a Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) chaired by the Head of
State has been responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of
economic plans, while a Council of Ministers has been responsible for
Implementation. In April 1983, the Government introduced measures that
reduced the degree of centralized planning and the authority of the CPSC,
and streamlined government institutions and authority relationships along
more traditional lines.
12.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by the Government are
steps in the right direction, there are several issues which require
attention. In regard to macroeconomic planning and management, it is yet
unclear as to how the projected levels of investment are to be financed,
given the low domestic savings rate and limited inflow of official
development assistance (para 7). While overall budgetary deficits reflect
prudent financial management, they also indicate limited success in
attracting external concessionary assistance. Likewise, with the value of
merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a
major expansion in exports and restraints on imports and/or import
substitution are called for, in order to reach a more sustainable external
current account deficit. According to the IMF, Ethiopia's real effective
exchange rate appreciated by about 37.5 percent against the currency of
major trading partners during the period January 1975 to December 1982.
The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export
incentives have tended to reduce producer margins in local currency and
have inhibited the growth of exports.



-5-
13.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, to date these have not been translated into
incentives for farmers to expand production and marketed surplus. Other
constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. All
sectors are also affected by the shortage of skilled manpower.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee), a small industrial base, and shortages of
skilled manpower. Apart from this set of unfavorable initial conditions,
the availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Government's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by the continuing deterioration in the terms of trade and by
low levels of external resource transfers. Moreover, the recent recession
in industrialized countries has inter alia inhibited the expansion of
non-coffee exports. Further, production growth in industry is running up
against capacity constraincs due to the low levels of investment in the
past.
15.       The need now is for a medium-term approach to development, and
for actions to accelerate the pace of economic growth. With a record of
generally satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to orient economic
policy towards expanding the directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, and to increase economic efficiency in the use of
resources. There is a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic
framework for the Government's forthcoming two and three year plans and to
present well balanced portfolios of viable projects, within these plans.
The financing of increased public investment would call for greater efforts
in domestic as well as external resource mobilization. The marketing
framework and incentive structure in the agricultural sector need to be
improved in order to step up agricultural growth, and the business climate
for private small-scale enterprises, particularly in industry, should be
made more favorable for increased investment, output and exports. In
general, the authorities should consider making greater and more flexible
use of macro-level policy instruments (e.g. exchange rate and wage
policies) and less use of direct, administrative controls. The attainment
of higher growth rates will also depend on raising the operational
efficiency of public enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower
shortages. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of 3-4 percent per annum over the



- 6 -
medium-term and for gradually improving the living standards of the
population provided the Government makes a concerted effort to increase
investment and to pursue policies which foster growth and development.
External Assistance
16.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group
,,as for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. The level of
concessionary aid to Ethiopia has been very low (para.7). Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by Its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development; it
has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials, and
Increased taxes significantly.
17.    According to debt information provided by the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting System, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about US$1.1 billion as of June 30, 1983. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt
service to export earnings remained low (para 8) because of the relatively
low level of external loan commitments, and the tendency of some donors to
shift to support on grant terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and
Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at SDR 26 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at
about SDR 54 million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for
Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to
support an 18-month program designed to strengthen overall fiscal
performance and help improve the balance of payments. This standby was
fully disbursed and its performance criteria were met. No formal request
for further IMF assistance has been made to date.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$702
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1984, consisting of 31 IDA
credits totalling about US$577 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and



- 7 -
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption in
new lending (para. 23). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of June 30, 1983
is estimated at about 4 percent, and IDA's at 29 percent. Their shares of total
debt service in FY1983 are estimated at about 9 percent and 4 percent,
respectively.
19.       Bark lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. Since 1973, eleven credits totalling
US$208 million have supported agricultural production and marketing, and some
attracted co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit 1088-ET of
February 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the International
Fund for Agricultural De'elopment, is assisting the agricultural minimum package
program, which represents the core of the Government's efforts to assist peasant
agriculture. A recent credit (Credit 1429-ET of March 23, 1984) is assisting
the Government to increase the country's foreign exchange earnings from coffee
exports through improvements to coffee processing and marketing.In addition, the
last four credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported educational
development. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, .md IFC
investments.
20.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although nubject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Ethiopia-s overall record compares
favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In recent years,
security problems affected three of our agricultural projects, but two of them
eventually made satisfactory progress. Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly continue
to have strong management. Financial problems, rising labor costa and
occasional shortages of construction materials have also detracted from
efficient project implementation on occasion. However, our experience has been
that the Government and the project managements have generally been successful
in resolving these problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms
introduced since 1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a
number of projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in others
detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing Project was
widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of washing stations,
whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project experienced production losses
following the take-over of some farms by peasant associations.
21.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the Bank
Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of disbursements to
undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was about equal to the
Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern Africa Region.
22.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the public and
private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for resource
mobiLization and allocation, and to increase production and exports.   In our
economic and sector work, we have been carrying out studies of the agricultural
sector, including a joint study with the Government on farmers' incentives and
marketing efficiency, and also studies of the energy, industry, education, and



- 8 -
health and nutrition sectors. In our lending work, we plan to continue
emphasizing the productive sectors and essential infrastructure to help address
the country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A second
road sector project and a second coffee processing and marketing project were
approved during FY1984, and a sixth telecommunications project was approved in
July 1984. An agricultural research project has been negotiated and will help
to expand and strengthen existing research capabilities and activities in
agriculture.  A technical assistance project to help strengthen the Government's
macroeconomic planning capabilities has also been negotiated. In addition, a
third power project is being prepared to help develop domestic energy resources
to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing economy, and a peasant agricultural
development project to help increase the productivity and incomes of small
farmers. We are making concerted efforts to arrange co-financing for proposed
projects.
Compensation
23.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in resolving
compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. Over half of the claims by
value have been settled. The Ethiopian Government has negotiated a
share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of its shares in the Metahara Sugar
Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. The Government's Compensation
Commission has settled with IFC's partner in Hetahara, a Dutch firm which had a
large claim, and with IFC's major partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese
company. A settlement with one of IFC's smaller partners in the Textile Mills
is in the process of being accepted by the parties. The Commission has recently
settled with a major British claimant, and has made an offer to a major American
claimant. The CommissIon has also settled with five or more smaller German,
Japanese and American claiLants, and has entered into negotiations with a number
of others. In addition, the Ethiopian Government and the Italian Government
have agreed on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
General
24.       Since 1974 the Government has undertaken continued development of
educational services covering all levels from basic through university
education, including an extensive program of adult literacy and skill training.
Enrollment ratios in primary, lower secondary and higher secondary schools grew
from about 19 percent, 8 percent and 3 percent respectively in 1973/74 to about
47 percent, 16 percent and almost 9 percent respectively in 1981/82. Much
effort was made ln that period to provide baslc education equitably over all
parts of the country. Peasant associations and urban dwellers associations have
been mobilized to assist the organization, construction and operation of many
aspects of education and training. Present enrollment ratios, however,
remain among the lowest in the region, even though they are substantial
improvements over the past.
25.       The system of formal education consists of a six-grade primary cycle
(ages 7 through 12), a four-grade lower secondary cycle (ages 13 through 16) and
a two-grade higher secondary cycle (ages 17 and 18). Teacher training is
provided in suppport of this general education system. A small but growing



number of technical and vocational schools exist, ircluding two universities and
a system of junior colleges.
26.       The major objectives and strategies for development of education in
Ethiopia under the next ten-year plan will be designed to promote national
welfare and improvement of the living conditions of the population; facilitate
the most rapid rate of development feasible in provision of educational
services; eradicate illiteracy; develop a system of oolytechnic education
through grade 6 and eventually grade 8; create conditions of geographic equity
in access to educational services; strengthen the teaching of science and
technology, linking theory to practice in a practical orientation to the world
of work; expand training facilities for middle level technical and scientific
mapower; provide continuing education to assure the direct impact of education
on development and on the welfare of the people; maintain quality through
appropriate support services, systems of evaluation and in-service training; and
promote self-reliance and productivity within educational institutions and
throughout the education system as a whole. The objectives are consistent with
the path of development which has been established by the Government for the
education sector in recent years, and merit the Associat"on's support.
27.       The Government plans to establish universal primary educaticn (UPE)
for the first six grades as soon as practically feasible. This will not be
approached within the next tem-year plan period (para. 32), for which a primary
school enrollment of about 5.Z million is projected for 1993194. This
projection implies a 67 perce-It enrollment ratio, based on the Bank's most
probable case scenario for population growth, and UPE by about 2010. With
declining fertility, this date might be advanced to 2005. Over the longer term,
eight grades of education are the eve-.tual target for UPE. Beyond eighth grade,
the intention is to provide education anu. training only in direct response to
labor market requirements.
28.       Many qualitative aspects of education have sr.ffered in the course of
quantitative expansion. Rapid growth of education opportunities ia the rural
areas has often led to use of inferior physical facilities. The trend toward
basic schooling for all has brought less able and motivated students into the
system and has increased average class size significantly - from 46 in 1973/74
to 63 in 1981/82 at the primary level. Enrollment growth has increased the
demand for teachers, so that unqualified teachers in primary school now number
more than 30 percent. Teacher training plans are consistent with the expansion
in student enrollments and the need to replace unqualified teachers (para. 44).
The Ministrv of Education (MOE) is undertaking some measures to resolve these
problems by: (i) co.rstructing schools and by giving high priority to teacher
training programs: (ii) upgrading teachers already in-service; and (iii)
preparing new curricula, materials and teaching methods designed to meet the
country's developmental needs. About 37 percent of the proposed project's base
cost has been devoted specifically to teacher training. As a result of the
proposed project as well as other donor programs, che percentage of unqualified
teachers is estimated to decline to about 10 percent by the end of this decade.
29.       Curriculum Development and Instructional Methods. Development of new
curricula and instructional materials has been an ongoing process since the 1974
revolution. It is likely to continue into the indefinite future, as materials
for all subject areas and levels of primary and secondary schools are written,
tested. revised, and entered into general use according to a phased program. A
central aim of the curriculum development effort is to convert to a system



- 10 -
referred to by the MDE as polytechnic education, in which all studies would have
a practical orientation to the extent possible. This would include not only
instruction in manual skills, but also an applied problem-solving orientation.
This approach is intended for eventual application in grades 1 through 8, and
application in more specialized forms in grades 9 through 12. It is consistent
1th the country's overall development needs, and is being supported by the
Ass xciatiou under the ongoing Fifth Education Project (FY1981).
30.       Management, Administration and Finance. All aspects of operation of
the education system at the primary and secondary levels, including technical/
vocational and adult education, are the responsibility of the NOE. The
Ministry's brief includes: construction, maintenance and operation of school
facilities; provision of teachers, headmasters and inspectors; preparation
and/or provision of curricula, books, equipment ard supplies; and overall system
planning, management, staff training and budgeting. Increased operational
efficiency and sensitivity to local needs are being sought through decentrali-
zation of certain administrative functions to the regional and awraja
levels. 1I The regional educational officers now have full responsibility for
implementation of regional budgets, as well as for all aspects of personnel
manageent and the collection of education statistics. The responsibility for
coordination and development of post-secondary education rests with the
Commission for Higher Education (CEE), a semi-autonomous body governed by a
Higher Education Council, chaired by the Minister of Education. It has direct
executive control over six institutions and over the coordination among the
universities and other post-secondary institutions.
31.       Primary school maintenance has been made a responsibility of the local
communities who have generally been fulfilling this responsibility
satisfactorily by virtue of their familiarity and skill in the use of local
construction materials, and technical assistance and tools from HOE. Secondary
school maintenance is being carried out satisfactorily by the Ministry of
Education's School Construction and Maintenance Service (SCS), which was
strengthened under the on-going Fifth Education Project (FY1981). Equipment
maintenance is a function of the Ministry's Education Materials and Production
Distribution Agency CE.'PDA), which was also strengthened under the Fifth
Education Project. Some additional support to further strengthen the EMPDA will
be provided under the proposed project (para. 53).
32.       The cost o' operating the education system is primarily the
responsibility of the central Government, though local resources are used in
partial support of literacy, skill training and primary education. Recurrent
expenditures in education In 1981/82 amounted to 13.2 percent of the government
total for recurrent expenditures. Capital expenditures were 6.1 percent of the
corresponding government total in 1981/82. Education used 11.1 percent of the
Government's funds overall in 1981/82, and total expenditures for education
amounted to about 2.9 percent of GDP. The recurrent cost of UPE for grades 1
through 6 would call for an addition of more than 8 percent to government
recurrent expenditures at present unit cost level. Achievement of that goal
would present a heavy financial burden and is therefore not expected to be
accomplished in the near future (para. 27).
I/ Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



- 11 -
33.       Teacher salaries, which are in line with other civil service salaries,
have been frozen since 1975 along ---h civil service salaries and are
conservative in terms of the national income level. As a result of the salary
freeze and domestic inflation, real earnings of professional and technical level
personnel in the public sector have been considerably eroded in the past few
years, despite salary increments through promotions. While this salary freeze
has led to a reduction in income disparities and has contributed towards
containing inflation which is now running at about a 4 percent annual rate, it
may have also caused negative effects in terms of loss of motivation and lack of
incentives for skilled manpower. But the salaries are generally appropriate
relative to those in other professions and therefore to alternative employment
opportunities. In the Bank's general economic dialogue, the importance of
reviving the public service salary structure and levels has been stressed. A
Wage Board has been set up by the Government and it is expected to finAlize its
recommendations in about one year's time.
34.       Accounting Training.  Because of the Importance of properly maintained
and audited accounts to implementation of development projects, provision of
trained accounting personnel at all levels is a major concern to the
Government. Training at the bookkeeper level is provided in some secondary
schools. Diploma programs for acc -untants are given by the Junior College of
Commerce (JCC) and by the extension program of the University of Addis Ababa.
Degree prog;ams are offered at the Universities of Addis Ababa and Asmara.
35.       Female Participation.  Femnle participation In the formal education
system In 1981/82 was as follows: at the primary level females represented
about 35 percent of the total enrollment, at junior secondary level 36 percent
and at the senior secondary 33 percent. The HOE strongly encourages women to
enter Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs)* and that policy has resulted in
increasing female participation from about 5 percent to over 30 percent in the
last ten years. It is expected that the provision of student places at primary,
secondary and post secondary institutions under the proposed project will
increase the female participation rate, along with overall quality improvement.
Female employment in Ethiopia has also made progress over the last ten years.
Women's employment at the technicallprofessional level has increased from about
11 percent of total female employment to 18 percent, clerical from 14 percent to
22 percent and sales from 6 percent to 13 percent. While total employment has
increased by about 42 percent over the ten-year period, female employment has
increased by about 172 percent. This increased participation in the labor force
can be related to parallel increases in the enrollment of girls in the education
system. Female enrollment in the period from 1975 to 1982 in primary and junior
secondary schools grew at about 15 percent per annum and in seador secondary
schools at about 18 percent per annum.
Role of the Bank in Education Development
36.       The Association has provided support to five education projects in
Ethiopia since 1966. Four projects have been completed and one is still under
implementation. The projects provided assistance in the expansion of basic,
secondary, technical and teacher education, science and social science



- 12 -
instruction at the university level, non-formal education, curriculum
development and diversification, agricultural and rural education, and the
production of textbooks and instructional materials. The Fifth Education
Project (Credit 1141-ET of June 1981), which is still under implementation, is
designed to improve the quality of education, to increase school enrollment and
adult literacy, to ensure balanced educational opportunities and to provide high
level manpower for veterinary medicine. Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) have been prepared for the first three education projects (PPAR No. 620,
No. 3257, and No. 4571, respectively). A PPAR for the fourth project has not
yet been issued.  The PPARs indicate that project implementation has been
generally satisfactory and objectives largely met.
37.       Lessons Learned.  Experience from the implementation of past IDA
supported education projects has special importance for appropriate design and
iWplementation of later projects. Principal among these lessons are: (a) the
need to balance supply of educational facilities with the prospective
availability of properly trained teachers; (b) the importance of flexibility in
the location of schools and in other details of implementation, so as to respond
to the needs of the borrower while complying with the requirements of the
Association; (c) the need to encourage motivation and involvement of the local
population in the development, support and use of new educational facilities;
(d) the essential role of an adequate school maintenance system; and (e) the
difficulties in implementation and supervision of a multi-faceted project
involving various ministries and implementing agencies.
Role of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector
38.       The Bank Group has provided the major assistance to Ethiopia in
development of their education sector during the past decade. Other donors,
notably UNDP and UN specialized agencies (i.e., UNICEF, UNFPA, and UNESCO), the
Swedish International Development AuthoriLty (SIDA), the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics (USSR), the German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the
European Economic Community (EEC), are also continuing their assistance.  Major
areas of support are: (a) UNDP - training of primary and secondary school
teachers, production of primary school science equipment and technical
assistance to basic education; (b) UNICEF - support to development and
implementation of new primary curriculum materials, upgrading of primary school
teachers and provision of technical and material assistance to basic education;
(c) UNFPA - financial and material assistance to the Mother and Child Health
Program through the National Literacy Campaign and other adult education
programs; (d) UNESCO - study grants and provision of printing paper for literacy
programs; (e) SIDA - materials for community self-help primary school
construction, paper and technical assistance for project Implementation; (f)
USSR - scholarships, equipment and teacher assistance to polytechnic education
and equipment for vocational schools; (g) GDR - experts for curriculum planning
services, inspection, and instructors for teacher training institutes; and (h)
EEC - construction of APCs, in-service literacy courses, and support for
correspondence education. The M0E's Planning Services Office has been
efficiently coordinating donor assistance for the education sector in



- 13 -
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, and the coordination has built upon
the strengths and interests of the various donor agencies.
39.       IDA Strategy for Basic Education.  The Association has made major
contributions to policy formulation, institution building and system development
for basic education in Ethiopia. Our support for educational development
accords with our overall strategy to assist the Government to develop the
manpower necessary to improve the efficiency and productivity of both the public
and private sectors and to lay the basis for long-term economy-vide growth. The
first sector review completed in 1972 was supported by the Association under the
Second Education Project, and encouraged the Government to evaluate its
educational programs and actively seek a sound educational policy, whereby
overall equity of school access and relevance to the country's socio-economic
needs could be promoted. The Association has supported the resulting strategy
of balanced development of education through provision of expanded physical
facilities, training of personnel and development of measures to improve
instructional quality. In this regard, the IDA strategy has been to fill gaps
in the Government's program through support for manpower studies (currently
being carried out), education planning, curriculum development and the
production of teaching aids. The concurrent development by the Government of a
managerial and planning infrastructure has enabled it to formulate and execute
coherent programs of educational development. Another sector review is
currently being carried out.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A report entitled -Ethiopia - Sixth Education Project; Staff Appraisal
Report-, No. 4948a-ET, dated August 8, 1984, is being distributed separately.
The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government with assistance
from the UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Program. The project was appraised in July
1983, and post-appraised in February 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington
from June 7 to 8, 1984. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Abdul Menan
A med, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, and included Ato Mitiku
Jembere, Head, Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
Project Rationale, Objectives, and Description
41.       Shortages of trained manpower are pressing constraints on Ethiopia's
development efforts and its ability to implement investment programs necessary
to achieve economy-wide growth over the long term. Although the Government has
achieved much in recent years, enrollment ratios in Ethiopia at all levels of
education are still very low in comparison with those in other countries at a
comparable stage of development. In addition, educational opportunities have
been skewed towards the urban populace, curricula have not been well-focussed on
the country's cultural and economic needs, and the availability of qualified
teachers has fallen well-short of needs. The proposed project will continue the
efforts being made under the Fifth Education Project (FY1981) to correct these



- 14 -
deficiencies and to improve the quality and equity of the educational system,
and also to expand educational opportunities particularly at the primary and
secondary school levels. It will respond to a variety of requirements within
the Government's strategy for education and manpower development (para. 26), and
take account of the activities of the many other donors involved in the sector
(para. 38). The project will include: (a) a direct education component aimed
at expanding the capacity, effectiveness and geographical equity of primary and
lover secondary schools, together with the training of teachers for those
schools; (b) a quality improvement component emphasizing improvement of the
quality of educational services through curriculum development, staff training
and supervision, and mass media applications; and (c) a support service
component to increase operational effectiveness by strengthening essential
support services.
Detailed Features of the Project
(a) Direct Education Component
42.       Primary Schools.  The proposed project will provide for about 450
additional units of four-classroom primary schools, which will increase
enrollment capacity by about 158,000 students, based on a 75 percent level of
double shifting. It will also provide for production of about 6,000 primary
school science kits by the School Science Equipment Production Center (SSEPC).
43.       Secondary Schools.  Thirty new lower secondary schools (LSS) will be
provided toward the goal of one LSS for each vereda. The increased LSS capacity
would be some 24,000 students based on 63 percent double shifting.  Under the
double shifting plan, students spend 216 days annually in school or working on
coumunity projects. The aims are to provide students with practical experience,
to promote better utilization of facilities, and to allow student and teacber
participation in economic development campaigns.  In addition, instructional
equipment will be provided to seven new and existing higher secondary schools
(gSS) in selected urban areas. Furthermore, the proposed project vill include
provisions for water supplies to 20 secondary schools (well drilling or
connections to town waterlines, pumps and water storage tanks).
44.       Teacher TrainLng.  The proposed project will provide training for
primary, lower secondary and productive technology teachers. One new primary
teacher training institute will be provided, with an enrollment capacity of
about 600 students in a ten month course. The projected 600 annual graduates
will help meet the critical need for primary school teachers.



- 15 -
45.       The proposed project vill also provide for a new productive technology
teacher training college, to be located at Nazreth. It will have a capacity of
about 400 in two-year diploma programs and about 400 in four-year degree
programs. Facilities to be provided will include boarding for about 800
full-time students and housing units for 31 staff. Twenty staff-years of
fellowships will also be provided to assure the availability of a qualified
staff of department heads by the time the college begins operations. The
Government has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for staffing
the college. The plan takes account of both available personnel and those who
are being or will be trained abroad.
46.       The Kotobe College of Teacher Education located near Addis Ababa is
the only institution presently devoted solely to training teachers for the lover
secondary schools (LSS). Limited cxpansion and improvements of the college vill
be carried out under the project. Emphasis will be on upgrading the training of
language, physical education and mathematics teachers. The component will
include civil works, equipment and furniture.
47.       Junior College of Commerce. Funds will be included to expand and
rehabilitate the Junior College of Commerce (JCC) to accommodate about 280
additional students, and to construct a new library. The proposed project will
also finance about six staff-years of staff training for instru'ctors.
48.       Technical Assistance to the Commission for Higher Education (CHE).
Technical Assistance and training will be provided to the CHE for institution
building. To help strengthen the CHE's capacity to plan and implement higher
education programs, the proposed project will finance about three staff-years of
specialist assistance, about 18 staff-months of fellowships in manpower and
education planning, and a limited amount of office equipment and vehicles.
(b) Quality Improvement Component
49.       Awraja Pedagogical Centers.  The Awraja Pedagogical Centers (APCs)
provide school supervision, coordination, in-service teacher training, program
evaluation, assistance in curriculum modification and development of teaching
aids, research and other support services to schools at the avraja level.
The APCs are also the distribution points for new educational materials.
Ninety-seven APCs are now operational, some of them in temporary quarters.
Forty were provided for under the Fifth Education Project, and the proposed
project will finance an additional 10 centers.
50.       MOE Traiaing Center.  The MOE carries out an extensive program of
short-term training courses for its instructional and administrative personnel.
The proposed project will finance a training center in Addis Ababa, including
a dormitory and dining accommodations for about 200 people, about three
staff-years of specialist services, and physical space for computer facilities
to be provided to the MOE under the project.



- 16 -
51.       Curriculum Development.  The proposed project will provide funds to
commission writers for the production of curriculum materials, for curriculum
evaluation, and for workshops and seminars for experimental schools, primary and
secondary schools, and APC staff.
52.       Educational Mass Media and Adult Education.  The Department of
Education Mass Media (DEMM) operates 11 one-kw medium wave radio transmitters
for school broadcasting, and air time is used for major subjects in the primary
grades and for adult education. The proposed project will finance about 11
ten-kw transmitters to enlarge greatly the present coverage and more than double
the air time. In addition, the proposed project will provide office facilities
for the Department of Adult Education, which will release needed headquarters
space for the DEMM, and also renovate seven small studio buildings annexed to
local education offices near the transmitter sites.
(c) Support Service Component
53.       EMPDA Headquarters Functions.  The Educational Materials Production
and Distribution Agency (EMPDA), an autonomous agency of the MOE, has a broad
range of responsibilities relating to the acquisition, manufacture, and
delivery of items to be used in the schools.  Construction of a modest new
headquarters building for the EMPDA will be provided under the project. In
addition, about three staff-years of technical assistance and 12 staff-months of
short term study tours will be provided to the EMPDA to strengthen its
management and procurement capabilities. Vehicles for delivery of books and
educational materials to the schools will also be provided. Support for
educational equipment maintenance was provided under the Fifth Education
Project. Maintenance has become a major thrust of the EMPDA and will be
continued under the proposed project. Given the essential role of spare parts
in the maintenance and repair of educational equipment, funds for additional
spare parts will also be provided under the proposed project.
54.       Chalk Production Unit.  A new facility for chalk production, at the
site of the new EMPDA headquarters, will be constructed under the proposed
project. This facility will serve the country's expanding educational system
and minimize foreign exchange costs associated with that production. The
Government will take measures during the construction and operation of this
facility to keep dust emissions within acceptable levels for worker health
(Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Regional Furaiture Production.  Improvements to the  operational
effectiveness of five regional furniture production units will be supported
through the provision of metal workshops and a small quantity of selected
equipment and vehicles. A kiln dryer and a shed for air curing will also be
provided to the central unit for use by the regional units. The Government
has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve the management
of the units and to train theiL key workers in metal furniture production.



- 17 -
56.       Transport Management. The proposed project will provide facilitieR
for transport maintenance, including tools, initial spare parts and equipmer.t to
be located at the new EHPDA site, plus about three staff-years of specialis';
services and five staff-years of fellowships to promote improved management and
technical performance. The Government has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the
Association, to improve the management and operations of the MOE vehicle fleet.
57.       MOE Planning Service.  Assistance to the Planning Service of the MOE
will be included under the proposed project for implementation of a computerized
data system. A feasibility study for the transition from manual to electronic
data processing of raw data on educational statistics has already been carried
out with assistance from UNESCO, and a detailed strategy for its implementation
has been prepared. The proposed project will finance equipment (hardware,
software, calculators, instructional materials), fellowships and in-country
training (about 47 staff-months), and the services of a systems analyst for two
years.
Cost Estimates and Financing
58.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$109.6 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at about US$11.9
million. The foreign exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$55.7 million, or 57 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes and
duties, of US$97.7 million. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the
Credit and Project Summary.
59.       The cost estimates are based on mid-1983 prices adjusted to May 1984,
and have been derived from recent contracts awarded under the Fifth Education
Project and under other government education projects.   Physical contingencies
averaging about 9 percent have been applied to the base cost. Price
contingencies total about 20 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated at 8
percent for 1984, 9 percent for 1985, and 10 percent for 1986 and thereafter.
For foreign costs, they have been estimated at 3.5 percent for 1984, 8 percent
for 1985, 9 percent for 1986-1988, and 7.5 percent for 1989.
60.       An advance of US$410,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
has been approved by the Association to help expedite project start-up, and is
being used to finance consultant services and technical assistance services to
begin preparation of architectural designs and equipment lists, to strengthen
the management and procurement capabilities of the EMPDA, and to carry out a
transmitter field strength survey.
61.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 67.3 millin (US$70.0 million
equivalent) will finance about 72 percent of the total project cost, net of
taxes and duties, including the foreign exchange costs and about US$14.3 million
equivalent (34 percent) of the local costs. The Gover,ment will finance US$27.7



- 18 -
aillion equivalent of the local costs, plus taxes and duties. In addition, the
Government will need to fund additional recurrent costs generated by the project
(para. 62). The financing of local costs by the Association is justified in
view of the country's poverty and low level of savings (para.16), and its
generally efficient use of resources in implementing and operating project
investments. Further justification is provided by the additional recurrent
costs which the Government will have to meet.
62.       The effect of the proposed project on the government budget has been
estimated assuming that overall recurrent and capital expenditures of the
Government will both increase at about 2 percent per annum in real terms in the
coming years, and that the share of MOE expenditures in the total capital budget
will remain at about 6 percent, its average level in recent years. The maximum
capital budget allocation needed for the project in any single year would
account for about 5 percent of the overall capital budget (FY84/85 and
FY85/86). The recurrent expenditures to be generated by the project when in
full operation (1989/90) would increase the recurrent expenditure of the MOE by
almost 7 percent, and are projected to grow at the same rate as total recurrent
expenditure (para. 32).
Project Implementation
63.       The Ministry of Education's Project Management Office (PHO), which is
currently managing the implementation of the Fifth Education Project
effectively, will have overall responsibility for project coordination and
administration. It will also provide administrative support to the Commission
for Higher Education (CHE) and the other agencies responsible for implementing
specific project components (paras. 42 to 57). The Ministry's School
Construction and Maintenance Service (SCHS) will assist the PMD in supervising
all construction work under the project, except for the construction of the
productive technology teacher training college for which architectural
consultants have been employed by PMO.
64.       The Government will ensure that the PMD has adequate manpower
resources, and that appointees to the PMO as Project Manager, Engineer and
Accountant will have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association
(Section 3.02 (ii), draft Development Credit Agreement). The PMO will also
employ a Project Coordinator (about 4 staff-years), and a Civil Works
Coordinator (about 4 staff-years) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines
(Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Project Coordinator
will coordinate the administrative activities of the various agencies involved
in the project and the Civil Works Coordinator will assist the PHO and the SCMS
in supervising construction work. Locally recruited clerks of works (about 40
staff-years) have also been included in the project to assist the PMO and the
SCMS in supervising construction work.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and imported
construction materials aggregating about US$80.7 million equivalent will be



- 19 -
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Smaller contracts for construction of primary
schools and other minor works totalling US$13.5 million equivalent will be
awarded after local competitive bidding or carried out by the School
Construction and Maintenance Service using departmental forces when no suitable
contractors are available to participate in local competitive bidding. Contracts
for furniture, equipment and construction materials costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each (estimated to aggregate about US$1.7 million) will be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Furniture and science kits for primary schools totalling about US$4.6 million
equivalent will be manufactured by the regional production units and School
Sc'ence Equipment Production Center (SSEPC), respectively, under negotiated
contract with the M)E. The water supplies for secondary schools totalling
US$2.1 million equivalent will be carried out by the Ethiopian Water Works
Construction Authority under negotiated contracts with the MOE. Standardized
sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of construction
materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and
estimates will be reviewed by the Association. Review of tender evaluation
documents prior to award will be required only for contracts above US$250,000
equivalent for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment,
vehicles, and materials. Consultants and specialists will be employed in
accordance with 8ank Group guidelines, and will have qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association. Where
ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment will
be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lover, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. In
addition, qualified domestic contractors will be allowed a preferential margin
of 7.5 percent over prices of competing foreign contractors.
66.       The Association will disburse against:  (i) 100 percent of foreign
erpenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures, and 60 percent of local expenditures for
furniture, equipment, vehicles, and construction materials; (iii) 60 percent of
local expenditures for services of consultants and specialists domiciled in
Ethiopia, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures for services of other consultants; (iv) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for training and fellowships;
and (v) 60 percent of local expenditures for incremental project
administration/operating costs excluding salaries. All disbursements will be
fully documented except those for works carried out under force account,
training, curriculum and staff development, operating costs and contracts valued
below US$10,000 equivalent, which will be made against statements of
expenditures (SOEs). The Government, however, will not submit applications for
reimbursements valued below US$20,000 equivalent. Based upon experience in
previous IDA education projects, the PMO has satisfactory institutional capacity
to use SOEs.
67.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of five and
one-half years including six months for finalizing accounts and for submitting
final withdrawal applications. The normal disbursement profile for Ethiopia is
nine years, but based upon experience developed in previous education projects
in Ethiopia and the advanced stage of project preparation, a five and one-half



- 20 -
year disbursement profile is considered adequate. Disbursements are expected to
be completed by June 30, 1990.
66.       To facilitate timely disbursements, the Government will establish an
IDA Special Account in the National Bank of Ethiopia. The Association, at the
request of the Government, will deposit into the account an initial sum of
US$800,000 equivalent, which will be used to advance IDA disbursements in
respect of eligible expenditures under the project. The account will be
replenished by the Association on the basis of documentation evidencing the
eligible expenditures (Section 2.02 (c) and Schedule 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The opening of the special account will be a condition for credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
69.       Semi-annual progress reports on implementation will be submitted to
the Association by the PMO each December and June following Credit
effectiveness. The MOE, through the PMO, will provide: (i) by April 30 of each
year during execution of the project, a proposed work plan and estimated
financial requirements of the project for the following fiscal year; and (ii) by
August 31 of each year, the final work plan for the current fiscal year which
will take into account comments made by the Association (Section 3.06, draft
Development Agreement). The annual reports of the PHO and the SCMS will be the
subject of consultations between the Association and the Government in the
course of project supervision.
Accounts and Audits
70.       Auditing will be required on a yearly basis for expenditures related
to the project with particular attention to expenditures reimbursed against
statements of expenditures. Auditing will be carried out by the Government's
Audit Services Corporation or other independent auditors appointed in
consultation with and acceptable to the Association. Annual audits will be
provided to the Association within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
71.       Other than the possible concerns for worker health due to dust
emissions in the chalk production unit, for which provision has been made
(para. 54), no negative impact on the environment is expected as a result of the
proposed project.
Benefits
72.       The proposed project will support the government's ongoing program of
education system development, which is directed toward eventual achievement of
Universal Primary Education (UPE), equity of access to secondary education,
improved educational quality, and meeting labor market needs for the developing
economy. In particular, the proposed formal education components will provide
the following benefits: continued expansion of primary school capacity with due



- 21 -
regard for geographical equity; improved geographical distribution of Lower
Secondary School (LSS) facilities; improved educational quality through expanded
facilities for teacher training and through improved curricula, instructional
materials and media systems; improvements in physical operations, through more
effective provision of instructional materials, maintenance and transport
facilities; and orientation of post-secondary education to labor market needs.
Project Risks
73.       The proposed College of Productive Technology Teacher Training will be
justified only if that institution is adequately staffed and effectively
utilized. The provision of a suitably trained and experienced staff from the
College's inception is therefore of utmost importance.  To reduce this risK, the
Government has prepared a staffing plan satisfactory to the Association.
74.       The implementation of an ambitious program of primary school
construction and of building maintenance may be hampered by the lack of a full
complement of qualified technical and managerial staff at the SCMS, as well as
by rapid turnover of that staff. The proposed project will provide technical
assistance aimed at alleviating these risks.
75.       The proposed component to improve the vehicle maintenance capability
of the MOE will only be cost-effective if accompanied by the organizational
changes and training needed to bring about operational improvements in the
management and utilization of the vehicle fleet. To reduce this risk, the
Government has prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Association, to help ensure
effective management of the facilities.
76.       Past experience vith the implementation of education projects in
Ethiopia has been uniformly good, and the overall risks of the proposed project
are considered to be minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee ;.rovided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are listed
in Section III of Annex III to this report.
79.       An additional condition for effectiveness of the proposed credit will
be the opening by the Government of a Special Account under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMNEDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 15, 1984



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
QIZ                    - 500*1. U5D1C2   :Z  SW
EZUoFIaA                            onnx  coPS CumEZ= A-RACES) I.
los-.                  (A=  M? 0STLH5TE) Db
1.9ml-6    = I97         sor lO OF 1*3*05'     MCA S-   sa
am C 0M         . s     so
.CMIL                              X1.9        .m29    1221.9                  _
AGRICCrLURAL                        574.9       591-5    593.1
o CWI    ()                     30_0         00      10.LO              I.L ;.12_9
(011G      r OaF O1L  r CIENT)       7.0        23-0     24.0               42.6                    529_0
am   IL 8 ss
poUCLAfl04.HIf-Yl*f tr7HESaM)    --0093.0    254SO00   32933-0                              -
CR8A5 PPCLATIU (-- OF 0TXL)           6.4         9.7     1:47               19.2          2S97
POPCL&?I0 Ls 105 2000 ("LL)                             57.3
srA71ma7 90PrL*2I0  (UZXLL)                            2300.5                                          -
10901.52105  CrIt OM                                                         1_                        _
Ka 2q. EB                          14.4        20.8     22                 32.                      ss8
MM SQ.  L AQR- LWID                35_0        43.0     53*9              119-2                    i 11.5
PGIC11!'Z0  -c- sT .m  c)
O-1' US                           .3.9        44.5      45.1              45.6                     41.5:
LS-" uS                            53-5        52-.     52.3               51.5                     St1.
41 AM SBUS                          2.4         2.4       2Z6               2_9                      2.9
9090.47200 09GIT  RATE(7
7t0ZL                               2_1         2.4        1 .1             2_8                      2-.
S-S        .-5       5.6               4.2                      5_2
C . KRTR RATE FED -IbS)               0.8        49.9     47.2               48.6                     47.0
eC  WA*7 1*70 (PER 7300)             28.3        25Z7     1 .1              17..                      15.2
muSS _-e_u00 wo "m                    3.3         3.3      3.3               3.2                       3.2
rA10XY  P'LA7I
*-!0n. ANNL CZ9U)                     -.    ,,
.c   c CZ 4F -ARS-ED hMN)             --
Xs: OF FOOD P600. mm CaPA
(1949-71-100)                       103.0       1010       2.0t IC             a                     91.6
CrimtA 1FPLY or
C*IOFZOs CZ oF EEQ0ZinU3?S)        91.0        8170     74.0               54.4                     96.2
P60u2   (m.U5    0OI)              72.0        49.0     59.0              49.9                     56.7
or IMICE 538*.L am P0SD          29.0        24.0      22.0 ld           18.3                     17.0
ChLD (AGS 1-S) OWE  RATE             *2.0        33.0     2S_0              23_8                      18.7
LIVS UP=. AX 52  CUt*)               36.5        41.0     44.6               "48                      51-7
i*r   07. 5_ (CR MM)               17J20       151_0    1220              117.5                    102.7
* rss TO SiPS  1W= (am
701*5                                --         4.0      4.0 I.            21.8                     35_6
Lew                                  __          __     32.0 7W            61_5                    54.1
RL                                                       z--o2_0 7         14.2                     27.3
ACCESS TO EWA DMOSAL
w:aL                                 --        14.0      14.0 f            32.0
-ass                     *_                     7.0     5.0 Or            69.2
5L                                    _         8.0      *.07T            24.8
10901*7106 Pu pWIfECIS           1004700    75740.0  S090.0IF   I    274774                        11946.3
POP  mmi         OWnS             14970.0      7U00    144 007-           339.2                    2246.9
Fo09 PM 305FAL MM
a*AL                             3000.       3060.0   3040.0 /A          L069.0                    9d6.9
taS                              =220.0       590.0    790.0              395-.2                  34.7
RO*AL                                -.    1590.0  10150.0 7             3094.0                   40L2.1
a*SSIo PE  WIt6L 33                    ..        10.6
*mw  sm OF ins0MID
70T*5 -                                         4.5
Cox"                                3.5         4.2
AI     .0 .  OF P-*SOU-                                                                                *-
70.1                                 ..          ..        .____
1a&                                 2. J                                     - 
4L                                   ..          ..        .               
AS  70 5.?. (2 oF   DL3C)
20751                                ..          ..        ..._
33*5                               56.2 r        ..       .                  -
.. . ..                                          . .. _.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
OPIA                   - SOCIAL ISICATORS DATA SDATA
CETII0fA                   cGROS (WOTEO  AV!tAGRS) to
PDWS                     (MUST NiCS ESTIMATE) lb
19gbaL     19OL   REcE               LOW IPDE AFRICA         PIZOLE TwzzNZ
vSniap/b          SOOTK Of SA*t        AFRICA S. OF SIIARA
A ZST   CEMOLUSlN  RATIOS
PILMART:  TOTAL                      7.0        16.0      46.0  1/          69-2                      9l.0
rAL                      11.o0       23.0      60.0               7a8.                      9o.5
r?N.                      3.0        LO.O      13.0               57.6                      73.6
SEmCODAY: TOTAL                      0.4         4.0      12.0               13.1                      1-4
mrL                       L.0         6.0      16.0               17.6                      Z3.7
FDqALE                    0.1         2.0      800                 8.3                      14.6
VOCAUOHAL CZ Of S CUSDMY)             20.3         4.5        __                7.2                       5.3
nLr L--EACE RIAT0
pnwrjqsa                            37.0        48.0      63.0               46.1                     38.6
SEC0SMAY                            13.0        28.0      4_0               25.9                      24.3
ADCLr LIRAC  RATE (Z)               *       _     12.8     S330         1        -.3                     35.6
PASSE5CE  CARITHCSAsD POP              0.o         1.6       1.8 h.             3.e                     20.7
IUDIO  ZEIMSMITUSAW POP                4.9         *-3       6.0               41.9                     100.8
TV E=IVERSITOCSA   PO .DP                          0.1       1.0                2.0                      18.5
SENPA.lR C(D&ILT CESIRAL
ZWTZWSrj CIRCLATI0N
PER THOUSASD PDOCLAZZO               2.1         1.1       1.7 11             5-4                     17.2
ciWA AmCAL ArTrEn CITr                  ,,          ,,        ,                 1.4                       0.3
TOTAL LAR FORM (TIOCS)              8975.0    10957-0  13523.0                    -
FUULZ (PZT)                         35.7        35-2      33.2               36.5                     33.8
AcRCOLTE (PENCEV                    38.0        40        80.0               77.4                     57.1
IIDWTRY (PNcE )                      5-0         6.0       7.0               9*                       17.4
PARTICIPATION RAZ` (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               4L7         43.1      41.1               Al10                     36.3
MALE                                58.6        56.9      54.3               5 .1                     47.6
_EU_                                31.2        29.7      27.6               30.2                     253.
ECOUGIC DLPUDE1CZ RATIO                1.0         1.1       1.2                1.2                       1.4
PERCENr Of PR%VAE ZUOE
8JUMST ED       WOLM .B. y
mIgIEST 20= OF DUSOLDs
tJZST 23 OF 0     1osLD               ..          ._.
La4ST 4GZ0 FOUSEOLDS .U                           .-
ESThZZD AWL    FOVERlY ZU CO
LDM (050 PME CAPITA)
t3w3                                  ..          ..    194.0               1681.3                    525.3
RCNAL                                 ..          ..      6).0 to           90.8                     249.0
ESTDEA.T N97ATIV POSEXT IMCIE
LEVE (US$ PE CAPTA)
calmS                                 ..          ..      77.0+0            107.7                    477.4
RE..AL                                                    37.0  k           65.0                     186.0
ESrDIATSD POIP  SUM AUSL
POWERD ICaIC LVEL (Z)
a                                     .           ..       0.0 1o           3.7
RENAL                                  ,          ,       65.0 7-           65.4
BUT. ATAI lAKE
VW APLCABLE
J 0 7 9 5
/a   be group awr_    for each ladlao r are populazeon-alghted arithgstle  _a0e.  Coerage of e_cwntrtI   owsg the
idiCtor. depend. on avalabilty of data and La not Unifor.
lb Qr1.. otharvla  noted. -.ga for 19- refer to any yr bhetea  1959 and 1961; 0.tt for 1970- betume 1969 An
1971; a" date for Wobec flcea lat ate  betwe  190 and 1982.
Ic  FAD data dffer eonsub   fru  mUmmEry of lrLc.1:ure data; /4 1371; fe 1975; /1  1975; !A  1978;  lb Mdli
Aab. caly.  /I as  10  rs an aver;    199".
I/ Estiuates differ from those in the text of the report since the Latter
refLect the findings of the Latest economic mission.
.=W. 19"



iVIdIVIShUSIFftWJ i  lllelSltiZ]ligSC~WEigJ# I l
Si ,y'N,'1 {1 in  g~~~~~~~~~ I;,itL  1tS",2t4ila



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Eeonomie Indiestors
Annual Rate of Grorth of GDP
Cross National Product In FY 1983 1/                               at Constant Factor Cost (2)
(Fiscal Years)
USS MIn      Z                      1977-81    1981    1982    1983
CDP at Market Prices           4731.3      100.0                       3.2       3.0     1.5     4.2
lnvestment                      497.3       10.5
Gross Domestic Savings           87,4        1.8
Resource Balance               -409.9        8.7
Export of Goods and %iFS        551.7       11.7
Import of Goods and NFS         961.5       20.3
%Otput in FY1983 1/
Value Added
USS min        I
Agriculture         2068.1       48.L
Industry             668.7       15.7
Services            1535.2       35.9
42T2-.      100.0
Government Finance                   Central Government
(Br.Min)          Z of GDP
FY 1983     nFT 1983     FY1980-82
Current Recepict                   1980.6         20.2         19.3
Current Expenditures               2186.7        22.3          18.5
Current Surplus                    -206.1        -2.1          0.8
Capital Expenditures               1127.2        11.5          5.3
Mmnes  Credit and Prices
'sF,,JL e l Yea1979                                      1980      1981      1982      1983 1/
Oaillion Br. outstanding end of period)
Money and quasimoney                            2063.6   2332.1    2377.6    2643.?    3040.L
Bank Credit to Central Govsrnu nt               862.3    968.1    1107.9    1180.9    1979.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Flnancial Institutions                        1222.7   1644.2    1721.8    1944.2    1741.4
(Pereontages or Iadex Numbers)
Honey as 2 of GDP                                 25.8     27.4       26.9      28.8      31.0
Anneal percentage dangas In:
Gneral Price Index                              12.9      12.5        1.9       7.3       3.8
Dank Credit to Public Sector                    12.5      12.3       14.4       6.6      67.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   34.1      34.5        4.7      12.9    -10.4
Note: All conversions to dollars In this table are at the average exchange rate during the period
covered.
All FiScal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
1/    Provislonal Data for 1983.



- 27 -
A?WEX I
Page 5 of 5
WZMaue of!P"ntz
CFlsecl Ye r )                          1981   1982       1983 11        Merchandise Exports
(Mtll5cn USS)                  (Flscal Year Average 1981-83)
USS1 Ml.       2
Exports of Goods. %TS                     554.8    519.9    551.7          Coffee             241.4        61.0
Imports of Gcoods. NFS                    793.4    881.3    961.5          Pulses              13.3         3.4
lRsource Cap (defLcit - -)               -238.6  -361.4   -409.8           Ollseeds            10.2         2.6
Rides 4 Skins       43.1        10.9
Invsstmnt Income (net)                     -6.5    -2.3      -2.1          oilseed cake         3.L 49
Private Transfers (net)                    24.7     45,3     84.9          Other               84.5        21.3
salance an Current Acct.                 -2ZC4   -3 18.4  -327.0           Total              395.9       100.0
Offidcla  Transfers (net)                  59.9     67.6    115.5          External Debt. June 30.1983  If
Private MLT Capital (net)                   0.0      0.0      0.0                                   US$ MIn
PbblIc MLT Borrowing (net)                110.4    245.4    181.6
Disbursements                          (132.5)  (278.0)  (225.8)
AoYrtSt-tion                            (22 1)  (32.6)   (44.3)          Total outstanding &
Short-tern Capital                         -6.0     18.9     -9.5            Disbursed                ttt5.0
Change in reserves                                                         Debt Service Ratio for FF1983 11
(- increase)                              59.7   -57.7      71.8                                     2
Minor Items
(incl. errors)                            -3.6     44.2    -32.4         Total Outstanding &        tt.Q
Met Foreign Assets                                                           Dtsbsed
(end year)                               118.6    178.6    107.3
Petroleum DLports                        138.7    159.1
Petroleum Product                                                         IDKIIDA Lendin  (March 31. 1984)
imports                                 27.0     14.0 
(USS KIn)
IBRD     IDA
Rate of Exchange Sinc 1973
USS1.00 - Br. 2.07                                                      Outstanding &
Br.1.00 - USS0.48                                                         Disbursed          42.5    368.9
Undisbursed          -       203.6
Ptstanditng Incl.
Undlsbursed        42.5    572.5
- not applicable
- not available
_I Provisional
April 1984



-     28-                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 198.4)
Amount
Loan or                                                                (US$ Million)
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number         Year      Borrower      Purpose                      Bank       IDA       bursed
Twelve loans and tventy credits fully disbursed.                    108.6    233.2
Cr. 603-ET      1976      Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                       27.0           4.7
Cr. 708-Er      1977       Ethiopia     Road Sector                           32.0           3.5
Cr. 707-ET      1977      Ethiopia 11  Revised Amibara                        25.0           5.9
Cr. 789-ET      1978       Ethiopia     Grain Storage & Mkg.                  24.0           8.1
Cr.1088-ET      1981      Ethiopia      Agricul. Minimum Pkg. II              39.2 2/       11.7
Cr.1141-ET      1981      Ethiopia      Education V                           35.0 7/       12.8
Cr.1275-ET      1982      Ethiopia      Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank            30.0 2,       27.1
Cr-1366-Er      1983      Ethiopia      Urban Development                     20.0 Z1       19.2
Cr.1386-ET      1983      Ethiopia      Petroleum Exploration                  7.0 7Z        6.5
Cr.1404-Er      1983      Ethiopia      Second Road Sector                    70.0 7,       69.1
Cr.1429-Er      1984      Ethiopia      Coffee Processing & Marketing         35.0 3I       35.0
Total                                                108.6   577.6        203-63
of whlch has been repaid                           66.1      4.9
Total now outstanding                                 42.50  572.5
Amount sold                          6.0
of which has been repaid           6.0               -          -
Total now held by Bank & ODA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                    42.50  572.50
Total Undisbursed                                       -       -         203.6
'1  US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/  Credits 1088-ET, 1161-ET, 1275-ET, 1366-ET. 1386-ET, and 1604-ET and 1429-ET are denominated
in SDRs (SDR 31.4 million, 28.2 million, 27.0 amllion, 18.0 million, 6.5 million, 64.9
million, and 33.2 million, respectively).
3,  Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                          Type of              Amount
Year       Obligor                              Business     Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I        Textiles      1.5       1.0         2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper          -       1.9         1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar        5.5      3.5          9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II       Textiles      0.4      0.2          0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III      Textiles      1.5      0.2          1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9      6.8         15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                   8.9      6.0         14.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   -      0.8         0.8
Total Undisbursed                                  -        -            -



- 30 -
ANNEX III
ETHIOPIA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DAIA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: About 18 months.
(b) Preparation by: The Government of Ethiopia with the assistance of
the UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Program.
(c) Initial discussions with IDA: Continuous sector dialogue since 1968.
(e) Appraisal mission departure: July 1983.
-f) Post-appraisal mission departure: February 1984.
(g) Negotiations: June 7 to 8, 1984.
(h)   .tauned date of effectiveness:  January 15, 1985
II.  Special Bank Group Implementation Action
A PPF advance of US$410,000 was approved to help expedite project start-up
(para. 60).
III. Special Conditions
Condition for Effectiveness:
(a) The Government will open an IDA Special Account (paras. 68 and 79).
Other Conditions:
(a) The Government will take measures in the construction and operation of
the chalk production unit to keep dust emission within acceptable
levels for worker health (para. 54);
(b)  The Government will ensure that the PMO has adequate manpower
resources and will employ key personnel having qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association (para. 64); and
(c) The Government will provide: (i) by April 30 of each year, a proposed
work plan and estimated financial requirements of the project for the
following fiscal year; and (ii) by August 31 of each year, the final
work plan for the current fiscal year which will take into account
comments made by the Association (para. 69).



* * |                               .z;;-a - ss r  -                   s -
J r r
., e . J
- ... ;-.; g J 3
'!          r:: *-
_- : ..              : t      i               ....                              3t,
.-. _' ..... AN, _#,: SC
11 \ 18_ , ... o^-0t,,1Q--
- _ _ --- - _ * s 4-- -- - *- * * --- - _- -- *-- * - i : ,> . 5
: _ _ _ ...... . _ . _ ' - - _ _ '_ * ' - _ * -_ ' _ * - _ | .
_ _ _ ' _ _ _ % _ s _ _ ,
- - -- --o- -- ---- '--; - -' '- -'- i -;] .- _. . -- o
j 2 t.: . :_,0
/; >$ J Jle-eeig
Xo^--< .y e X ,
|                                    g *-J         Gonae>                    } a' '-
-- S U D A N J * 9 K-
(                   @ >        r: 't '    -- * \ei      ;g    __
tc ,., ., ;, O -._.,,) r j
--  \ * w > 4 br > Dese \ ' ' J k
l -\9 >t<W w
;                    i            \n                   ,, >>oc   3V--                 /   _
i -1--; '''O4 5-5-t ---B-E
_ _ r ; /t Wrt'--^' -- ow_v-_ '
\    ;*       Xe       j/ z<- J mo  -  tJ    4    g         >           o 
|                  \                   \    O o.S f .1 SS HX  X
, \ 20 , ....... . .... CA f W e , *. V , _.
\     ,, <   __ _,,      A-b->   t    9
\ .. ,,0 \;_, om
?_._ - ........ ..... ... S
, ... .. . o ... .. - - . . ,
! ---
! , ' a o;
)             K.  E   N    Y    A   .               ........... /            /
UGANDA           ,   %                ,.                   ,,           _,,>,   ,                /



iBRD X8058
ETHIOPIA
OMr.'br                                                                               SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
*   Pr.motn Teacher `Ta-nirq Col lege (Asela            *   tower Secondary Schools
A   Kotobe College of Teacher Educarorn                      Warer Supply for Secondary Schools
*    Productre Technology Teocher Train.og College      A   Aercia Pedogoical Centers
-        '       aiihatt  11 weather
-- Grovel, oIl weo?her ~
.<_.,,-_c                                                   :1u{21~~~~~~~~~~~~Qno and/or dry weath er
Z.-,l AC
*\         ""42 3st r'id under construction
~~~'                                                                                    -  -    sf?~I,h.e
: J   r:   >                                                                      _ . .,~~~~,~  c,ve-CZ5
Not.onal cop.tol                                          ,
@    Ad-nnnitra.iw.e reg.an  n rals
e.'Jle e
?*---"C'                                          -
-         X D-UT                                          S            M   A   L   I   A
a,,                                    -                    *ft*sfl                                                                                 j
C'-'-
S's   w*  '* -1  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                                                                      ?i    A              
o44~
vi'.' S. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,  S  N    o ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ D



