Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8015-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 16, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
" Ibi documet has a resrtided dlstrMbulon and may be used by   only i  e ped mntu  of
their offiefal dutes. Its contes may no othrwis be dsodw u Wod _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Crore Taka   -   10 million Taka
US$1.00   -   Tk 32.27 (June 1989)
FISCAL YEAL
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
AUEO      -   Assistant Upazila Education Officer
BANBEIS   -    Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics
DANIDA    -    Danish International Development Agency
DGIS      -    Netherlands Directorate General for International
Cooperation
DPE       -    Directorate of Primary Education
DSHE      -    Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education
EMIS      -    Education Management Iaformation System
FD        -    Facilities Department
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
HSC       -    Higher Secondary Certificate
IDA       -    International Development Association
LGEB      -    Local Government Engineering Bureau
MLGC      -   Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives
MOE-FD    -   Ministry of Education - Facilities Department
MOE       -   Ministry of Education
NAPE      -    National Academy for Primary Education
NCTB      -    National Curriculum and Textbook Board
NGO       -    Non-Government Organization
NIEAER    -    National Institute of Education Administration,
Extension and Research
NORAD     -    Royal Norwegian Development Cooperation
ODA       -    British Overseas Development Administration
PP        -    Project Proforma
PTI       -    Primary Teacher Institutes
SIDA      -    Swedish International Development Authority
SSC       -    Secondary School Certificate
TTC       -    Teachers Training College
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO    -   United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organization
UNFPA     -   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
UPE       -    Universal Primary Education
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCLF L USE ONLY
GRIUAL  UC&TICON PROJET
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amounts         SDR 120.6 million (US$159.3 million equivalent) including
retroactive financing of US$0.05 million for expenditures
after appraisal for the staffing of the Project
Coordination Unit).
Terms:          Standard wath 40 years maturity.
Pro3ect
Descriptions    The five-year project would continue the work begun in the
First and Second Primary Education Projects (Credits
1054-BD and 1574-BD) to strengthen the primary sub-sector
through improvement of management, a simplified curriculum,
revised textbooks, and better trained, deployed and
supervised teachers. Access to primary schooling would be
increased and made more equitable by constructing or
repairing 22,000 classrooms, increasing the proportion of
female teachers, and testing the use of satellite schools
and Non-Government Organizations' (NGOs') non-formal
programs xo reach the very poor and girls. In secondary
education the project would increase quality and efficiency
by strengthening the planning, administration and
monitoring capacity of the Directorate of Secondary and
Higher Education, reforming the examinati n system,
improving textbooks and curricula, and er -sading the
existing secondary school scholarship program for poor
girls. At the higher secondary and post-secondary levels
the project would also finance Government studies of policy
and program options in higher and post-secondary education.
Benefits and
Risks:          Project benefits would be:  Primary school enrollment would
increase by about 42 per annum and new methods to attract
and retain the very poor and girls would be established.
The cost per primary graduate would be reduced due to fewer
dropouts and repeaters, and a more efficient deployment of
teachers. The relevance of primary schooling would grow
due to increased classroom application of literacy end
numeracy skills to real-life issues facing students.
Programs to improve secondary school quality and efficiency
would begin, but tangible benefits such as more relevant
learning and reduced costs would not occur during the
project period. Possible risks include continued
inefficient deployment of teachers and poor management of
classroom construction. Additionally, the Government of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoreration.



- ii -
Bangladesh (GOD) may find it difficult to continue to
resist interest group pressure to increase subventions for
private secondary school and college teachers, which may
direct resources away from priority programs in primary
education. To minimize these risks the project
Incorporates a teacher deployment policy of one teacher per
classroom and double shifts, and improves promotional
opportunities for primary school teachers to serve as a
quid pro quo for increaslig their teaching load. The
project would increase construction and maintenance
supervisory capacity. An a6ditional supervisory and
evaluation capacity, financed outside of the project by
DGIS and SIDA, provides for random field evaluations of all
project inputs. Joint arnual Government-IDA and
cofinanciers reviews of budgetary allocations to primary
education provide a forum for ensuring adequate funding of
the primary education sub-sector.
Prolect Costs:                                Local      Foreign     Total
-------(US$ million)-----
Project Component
Increased Access              92.5        34.7      127.2
Improved Quality              95.4        38.0      133.4
Institutional Development      2.4         1.7        4.1
Studies                        0.6         0.4        1.0
Base Cost     190.9        74.8       265.7
Physical Contingencies        11.3         6.7       18.0
Price Contingencies           17.0         9.5       26.5
Total Project Cost      219.2 a/    91.0       310.2
a/  Includes duties and tazes estimated at US$14.5 million.
Financing Plan:                               Local     Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)------
Financier
Government                    42.1         0.2       42.3
Sweden                        10.6         3.4       14.0
Netherlands                   10.6         3.4       14.0
UK                             4.0         1.7         5.7
ADB                           36.5        21.0       57.5
UNDP                           1.8         3.2         5.0
UNICEF                         4.7         5.3       10.0
UNFPA                          1.6         0.8         2.4
IDA                          107.3        52.0      159.3
Total                219.2       91.0       310.2



- us. -
Estimated IDA
Disbursementss
FT       91      92      93       94      95      96
__ __ (U8$ ulioB) ee-f-----e.
Arnal       18.5    26.2    46.7  42.9    23.0        2.0
Cumalative  18.5    44.1      91.4  134.3   157.3  159.3
Economlc Rate
of Returnt      Not applicable
Maps            IID  22119



- lv -
GEER WZDJAfION PROfC
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATAv........ .    vS
I.    SECTOR CONTEXTI........................   1
A. The Education Sector....                                       1
B. Sector Development Issues               .....9 * * * *....  1
C.  Sectoral Objectives and Priorities ......................   4
D.  External Financing of the Sector ..............0..........   5
E.  IDA's Role and Sector Lending Strategy ..................   6
.   TE PROJECT..................................................           7
A.  Project Objectives ......................................   7
B.  Project Description ...................................   7
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT.....  23
A.  Project Costs........ .......                                23
B.  Fimin                 an.......                        g     25
--. Implmenaton..........................   27
IV.   BENFuITS AND RISKS.....................                            35
A.  Benefitsn................................................  35
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOIOMNATION...N......................  36
TABLES IN TEXT
.1     Project Cost Summary .... ................................... 23
3.2     Fiancing Plan Summary  ty C omponent.....................   26
3.3     Procurement Methods               g.32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh
in MaylJune 1989 comprised of Messrs.JMmes. T. Schmidt (Mission Leader)%
B. Abmed, I. Appasamy, E. King, J. Lynch, 6. Sinclair (IDA)g A. Read
(Consultant); E. Berg, S. Gustafsson (SIDA); C. van Ravensuaaij (DGIS);
N. Giordano (UNDP)t S. Chu (UNDPIUNESCO)i E. Thomas (ODA)t A. than
(UNFPAIUNESCO); and W. Zaki (UNDP).



Table of Contents (continued)
1.     The Education Sector and Its Issues.........................  38
2. Zaasladedh  _ FY89 Bducation Budget ....................... 45
3.     Primary Educations...............................  46
4.     Donor Financing of lducation Sector ..........................  48
5.     Selection Criteria for N1O Grant Programs...................  49
6.     Integration of Curriculum and Textbook
Development and Teacher Education ......................... 50
7.     Teacher Supply and Demand, 1990-95 ..........................e  54
S.     Teotbcok Costs Breakdown..  ..........................            56
9.     Sumary Accounts Cost Sumary               ..........  57
10.     Summary Accounts by Project Component .......................     58
11.     Financing Plan by Suary Accounts .......................... 59
12.     Project Management ......      .............. .............  60
13.     Monitorlng, Research and Evaluation.........................  61
14.     Low-Cost Schools Option ................................. ...  63
15.     Tecbhical Assistance -- Visiting Specialists and
Through Fellowships and Placements ........................  64
16.     Disburssmet schedule ............................  68
17.     Women In Development Measures       ...............     ......   69
1s.     Selected Documents Available in Project lile ................  71
MAPS    IBID 22119:  Bangladesh General Education Project...........  73



- vi .
KS-
GEMA  EDC-ATM  PROJECT
P"laloo
official estimuat  ( l8) ..   ......Eln.....1C.91llon
Avera  ennul growth raft (1986-7) .........  ......... 2.U1
Avrag density (1M) .......... ............... .S pwo s k
Adult literay rPat  (1O))...............................2%.
Iblo .................o............ *40X
Fiwalo ...................19
P per capita (196 ...................................
EnrellnwAm (is *OM and moew oft ltitettee. (ISP)
Prlmry and Secenderi Prrs:                 Nmbder    Totl    Vale,  FPsal-         X Fuo l-
Primary (Pee-primary, classes (I-V)      4486   11075.5  0245.8   4029.7           48.61X
Xbtedaye Madrassh (cl_sse  I-V) I/       1419      18.0  1872.7    101.1           10.605
Junior Secondary (class_  VI-VIIU)        221       267.9   162.0    105.8         89.81X
Secondary (clooas  VI-K)                  7681    2478.9  1680.0    787.9          81.800
L-khll Udrasah (clases VI-X) 2/          881       616.4   462.2      54.2        10.50X
Total                6e846    15851.1  9437.1   58S4.0        83.88%
Gross Enrol Imant ratios:
Primary (classoe  I-V) 8/ ...................... 61.05   71.5%1    49.8X
Secomdary (class_ VI-X)      ......       ........  24.4X   84.05    14.5X
Interoediate. Dloloms and Dsre Prosra s:
i-ntrmedide cIeollose (klase" As aIl)    810        114.6    98.1      2t.4        21.41X
AIs Vadrarb (classes XI    XII)            786      152.4   142.0      10.4         6.94X
Degree collag  (elassr   3Ill-lM)          442      C41.0   491.0    160.8         £.60%
Fxa I and Kmi I  .l dreah (classes XII-XV) 764      206.0   198.8       7.8         8.525
Teachers cot log_:                          s8       20.4     7.7       5.2        26.8a%
Primary Training Institutes (PT? )                  7.0      2.6      4.1        69.13%
Toacer Trainin Colle9                     10        8.6      2.6      1.0        20.70%
Vocation and Tech. Training Institute      2        0.1     0.1       0           0.00S
Bloodst h Ietut. o        tance Education 1         7.5      n.o      n.. n.
NAPE                                       1        0.8     0.8       0.0         0.00O
NIEAER                                     1        1.9      1.9      0.0         0.00S
Total                   2,894   1,160       940       204         11.621
Yntwer tttZs 4/
Choke Unlr ity                               1       16.6    12.5       4.1        24.18X
J.hengireagar Unlverslty                     1        2.7     2.1       0.6        22.82%
Re ahaI Univerity                            1       11.8     9.4       2.8        19.74X
Chit agonUriversity                          1       6.0       4.9      1.2        19.00S
Itl_tc University                            1       0.9      0.9       0.0         0.0
Bangladsh Agricultural Univrsity             1        4.6      4.4      0.2         4.88%
angladesh Univerlty of Engineering
and Technology                             1        8.6      8.5      0.2         6.41X
Total                     7       46.8    87.7        8.6       18.60%
bd dental, nursing a hem topethe 5/   69      27.4      n.e.      n.n.        e.*.
Agricultural and Englerlng                  6        8.1     n.e.      n.a.        n.e.
LJ                                          22        7.0     n.*.      n.*.        n.s.
OUter                                       17        5.4     n.e.      n.e.        n.a.
tnwi8 instlittes                            01        7.77    n.e.      n.n.        n.e.
Agricultural lstltutes                     21        4.9      n.e.     n.e.        n.e.
Polytechnic Institutes                      18       22.1    11.7       0.4         8.88
Moastehnic intlitotes                       87        1.8      1.2      0.0         2.771
Vocetloal ntnbitute.                        54        2.2      1.7      0.5        28.28%
Comerciel nltitutes                         17        8.0      2.7      0.8        10.48S
Total, ne-unilversity tertiry Institubtins 8        10".



- vil -
Education expenditur, am a proportion Ott
GOP*l * _1 *......                 d
Central gov-r--.otexp .aditure.........-.-...   @
Central goe"      capital exp1nditw ........................ .*.*5.
Central gvrnuntrecurrent uxpInditvree..o.0...........1.
Su-atr expenditure and unitb costs
As X of total
edueation        Cost per
Primasy education           e~~XPenditure    Student (Take)
l n C.0             4e
Seo ry Education                         41.45          is"
Univer.it educalon                       6.0          171
ao nd Tochnical edcation          0.00         107
Teacher Training                          7. 53
Not"
1/ Enrollme  da  by gander are nt ovailabl thee. a saums that the perce         femle. the
eawe as In Dakhl l Madrasat.
2/ Oakhil Mdrasah  alo have clo e I-V student.
8The  rations do not Include the pre-prlmry or babV class who are yonger than *Ix year.
4/ Two other univerettle. have been added, amely t  H. azrat Shahalol Sciene and Tehnology
University In SyIhe, nd Khulm University; ts  univelrsties are not let open.
5/ Excluding heh n    _ govorent l "homepethiem ajurvedle and nali lnstlutions for which
enrollment data by9gender are not avall4le_ the pece-ntg  e  tl t 27.53.
6, These estimates includethe 1expenitures of the  it  of Education a wllI as the
allocatio  for t  Cade Colle (ministry of D        )    tho training esablishmeo
smaged by the Ministry of Labor ad  bnpmwr.



BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
T. SECTOR CONTEXT
A. The Education Sector
1.01      The system of formal education in Jangladesh includes five years of
primary education and seven years of secondary education (three years of
junior secondary school, two years of secondary school and two years of higher
secondary school or intermediate college), followed by two to five years of
higher education. In addition, there is also a parallel religious system of
education offered at similar levels in the Ibtedaye, Dakhil, Alim, razil and
Ksmil Hadrasah, as well as at an Islamic University. Primary schools take in
a large number of under-age children and these are informally accommodated in
a so-called baby class. Teachers normally work a two-shift day, teaching the
baby class, Classes I and IT for approximately two hours in the morning and
Classes III, IV and V for two and one half hours in the afternoon. Most
secondary schools are private (72.22). There are two public examinations
after Grades X and XII, the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and the Higher
School Certificate (HSC), organized by four Boards of Intermediate and
Secondary Education. Teacher education is offered, for primary schools in 53
Primary Teacher Institutes (PTIs) and, for secondary schools, in 10 Teacher
Training Colleges. There are 54 vocational training institutes, 18
polytechnices, four institutes of technology, two colleges, one for leather
technology and one for textile technology, and two institutes, one for glass
and ceramics and the other for graphic arts. Degree programs are offered by
145 government and 285 non-government colleges and 7 universities, of which
four are general, one engineering, one agricultural and one Islamic.l'
B. Sector Development Issues
1.02      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has struggled since Independence
(1971) to meet the basic educational needs of the nation against handicaps of
great poverty and high population growth. Despite some progress, three major
issues persist:
(a) access to educational services remains both low and inequitably
distributed;
(b) the education provided is of poor quality and its delivery
inefficient; and
(c) severe budgetary limitations constrain growth and quality.
1.03      Access to basic education is limited.  Even in primary education
over one-third of the children of primary school age are not enrolled, placing
/ See Annes 1 for a further description of the educational system and
institutional issues.



- 2 -
Bangladesh in the lower quartile of all developing countries. Largely as a
consequence of a bistory of low enrollment, over two-thirds of all adults are
illiterate. Educational opportunity has been Inequitably distributed toward
males and urban dwellers. As a result, adult literacy rates are twice as high
for men compared to wamen, and twice as high for urban versus rural dwellers.
There is some maldistribution of primary schools. An updated school map will
identify underserved areas.
1.04      The educational attainment of woren in Bangladesh Is one of the
lowest in the world. Only one in three school-age girls is in school. Female
university enrollment is less than two percent of women aged 20-24, and only
three out of a thousand women are professionals. Lack of basic education is a
major contributor to poor health practices and limited social and economic
prospects. Female life expectancy is only 49 years. One In five girls dies
before her fifth birthday. Only about 302 of married women use contraception;
women bear five to six children on average. Only 14Z of the paid work force
is femalei2f
1.05      The education provided is of poor quality and its delivery
inefficient. Because of poorly trained and supervised teachers, low teacher
morale, overly crowded curricula and inadequate teaching methods and
materials, the quality of schooling is low. One effect of poor quality has
been low internal efficiency. Dropout rates in primary education have been
high, resulting in only an estimated 142 of primary students reaching fifth
grade within five years, as comparld to an average 552 overall for countries
with GNP per capita under US$400.31  Three-quarters of those who enter the
primary school system never complete it.*;  Wastage at the secondary level is
almost as severe.  Less than half of those who sit for the SSC examinations at
the end of Class X or the USC examinations at the end of Class XII are able to
pass the examinations. Only 5 of those who enter the system in Class I
survive through Class XII and pass the USC esxminatsLoua.
1.06      The relevance of the system to the social and economic needs of the
students (especially the very poor) is very low. Existing primary education
is most relevant to the 52 who complete high school and pass the completion
examinations. In the primary and lower secondary grades, rather than
concentrating upon basic literacy and numeracy skills, knowledge of applied
science, health, population issues and nutrition, the curricula are crowded
with academic subjects and students are tested and promoted solely upon their
capacity to recall large numbers of facts predominantly unrelated to the needs
of daily life. For the most part, the students who go on to college and
2/   Population Briefing Paperg, No. 20, The Population Crisis Comittee,
June 1988.
3/ Mission estimates of dropout rates based on 1983-84 survey data.
Comparative data from World Bank, 'Improving Efficiency of Education In
Developing Countries', Draft, April 1987.
41 Based on 1983-84 survey data. There is some indication that retention
rates are improving (para. 1.10).



-3 -
university enroll in the liberal arts program_. After grad"ation they find
that their course of study, weak in science and mathematics and lack1,g In
technical training, makes it difficult for them to find employment._
1.07      Severe budgetary limitations constrain growth and guality.  The 1.71
of GNP allocated for education (FY88) is one of the lowest in the worlds on
average, the lowest quartale developing countries epend about 31 on education.
Almost no effort has been made to mobilize resources at the local level. This
relatively low spending on education has been possible at the expense of the
quality of primary schools and learning.  Although enrollment in primary
education has increased, this has been achieved mostly through a greater entry
rate of children reaching school age. Dropout and repetition rates remain
high. Moreover, the expenditures within the sector have not adequately
reflected sector priorities. Cost containment efforts within the sector have
focussed on keeping expenditures low. Only recently has the Government begun
to broaden its cost contairment strategy to include reallocation expenditures
to inputs, such as teacher training and supervision, that would increase the
effectiveness of the primary education system. In addition, although the
Government has repeatedly stressed its commitment to the goals of achieving
Universal Primary Education (UPE) and increasing the country's literacy rate,
it nevertheless increased its subvention of salaries in non-government
secondary schools and colleges from 50 in 1980 to 801 in 1989, and
nationalized an increasing number of these schools. This financial commitment
to secondary schools will limit the extent to which the primary education
subsector can grow or improve in the future; thus, the Government needs to
resist further pressure to expand this support and should enforce some minimum
quality standard in these schools, and maintain, at the least, the current 402
share of educational expenditure for primary education.
1.08      The need for higher expenditure levels and greater efficiency in the
primary educatiom sub-sector is rMade evident by examining the implications of
the Government's Universal Primary Education goal to enroll 901 of the
children of primary schooi age by the year 2000.61 Budgeted expenditures
(FY88189) for primary education make up 43Z of budget allocations to the
sector (Annex 2, Table 1), and it is estimated that in order to achieve its
year 2000 target, the Government would have to increase real expenditures in
the primary subsector alone by an average rate of 7.1S per annum (Annex 2,
Table 2). Previous discussions with the Government have pointed out the need
to expand the level of spending for primary education in order to finance the
burgeoning demand for primary education--a result partly of the rapid growth
in school-age population (Annex 3, Table 1).
S/ The GOB estimates that in 1985 of those searching for employment 851 were
generalist graduates of the post secondary system, while only 50? ot the
jobs advertised couli be filled by generalists. Source4 'Bangladesh
Manpower Planning Center Bulletin, September 1986.
See Chapter X in World Bank, Bangladeshs Public Expenditure Review.
Public Resource Manatement During the Fourth Five-Year Plan, FY91-95.
March 13, 1989.



- 4 -
1.09.     Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted a draft financing
plan for the education sector covering the Fourth Five-Year Plan period (1990-
95). While the Fourth Plan will only be finalized in June 1990, the proposed
outlays on education, amounting to 5.9? of total plan outlays during the
Fourth Plan period, represent a significant increase over previous allocations
of 4.2S and 4.7? during the Second and the Third Plan periods respectively.
Out of a total of Tk 22.6 billion, primary education would receive SO of the
plan outlays, which would be adequate to cover the planned investments in the
sub-sector. With regard to recurrent expenditures, the Government's
submission, though adequate in terms of amounts, showed a lack of capacity in
the Ministry of Education to develop a needs-based recurrent budget forecast,
and it was agreed during negotiations that the MOE would develop a budget
planning and forecasting capacity to analyze the financial implications of
policy options under consideration and to prepare realistic medium-term
recurrent cost budgets (para. 5.01). Moreover, in order to safeguard the
allocations intended for primary education, the Government has agreed to an
annual review with IDA of the Ministry of Education's (MOE) budgetary
proposals for the sector in advance of its budgetary decisions, to demonstrate
the Government's intent to provide sufficient financing to meet sectoral
priorities (the most important of which is primary education) (para. 5.01).
C. Sectoral Obiectives and Priorities
1.10      The Government is aware of these sectoral issues and has begun, et
least at the primary school level, to address them progranmmatically. In 1980
it established Universal Primary Education (UPE) as its sectoral priority in
recognition that widespread basic literacy is a necessary condition to
economic and social development, and in the conviction that there can be no
system-wide improvement in the education sector until the base of the
education pyramid, the primary school system, pr4duces quality graduates. It
has sought to increase access through a primary school building program, and
improve retention through greater efficiency and quality in the sub-sector.
As a result, it appears that the retention rate may be increasing and that the
gross e rollment rate may have risen from 60? to 7O0 of the primary school age
group.7/ Despite these efforts the Government may not be able to reach its
UPE target of a 90? gross enrollment by the year 2000 (see mission estimates,
Annex 3). However, primary education has just been declared compulsory, and
the Government is considering a further increase in investment in the sub-
sector.
1.11      In preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Plan and in anticipation of
further Bank lending for the sector, during the past 12 months the GOB has
been refining its sectoral objectives. This has resulted in a draft 'Policy
Paper on Education' produced by the Ministry of Education and circulated and
discussed widely. Its recommendations, which are summarized in paris. 1.12-
1.15, seem to have extensive support within and outside the sector. Many of
its recommendations have been included in the components identified for
inclusion in the proposed General Education Project.
71 These figures are based upon ;he first two years (1986-87) of a new data
collection and analysis system under development in the Directorate of
Primary Education. The figures will need further validation. The proposed
project will continue the development of the system (para. 2.51).



-5-
1.12      In addition to increasing access to primary education through the
public school system, the Ministry of Education is considering contracting for
the assistance of Non-Governmental Organisations (WGOs) to help improve its
outreach to girls and to the very poor. Also, to encourage greater enrollment
of girls, the MOE would raise the percentage of female primary school teachers
from their current level of 192 of the primary school teaching force to 5OS by
the year 2000 through active recruitment of female teachers. Efforts will be
made to involve communities in the support of existing Government schools at
the primary level by encouraging participation In Parent Teachers Associations
and by widening the responsibility of the School Management Committees.
1.13      The MOE will improve the quality of secondary eaucation through more
effective planning, management and monitoring of the sub-sector, improved
curricula, teaching materials and textbooks for the schools, beginning with
science and mathematics. The examination system also will be modetnized.
1.14      Government plans are being developed for a series of reforms in
higher education. College education would be restructured to allow only a
three-year undergraduate degree rather than the current two-year Pass Degree
and three-year Honors Degree. Degree colleges teaching the higher secondary
Classes XI and XII would be encouraged to shift these responsibilities to the
Intermediate Colleges, which in turn would be urged to incorporate high school
classes (IX and X) in their programs. Special affiliated universities would
be created to supervise the academic programs of the colleges. This would
replace the current practice of affiliating colleges with the general
universities which have few resources for the effective management of an
accreditation and supervision system. The University Grants Commission would
have its planning and coordinating role strengthened.
1.15      Cost sharing and student aid mechanisms would be developed to
replace the current inequitable patchwork of low fees and tuitions,
scholarships and stipends. In addition, the private sector is being
encouraged at all levels, and the GOB will strengthen its regulatory and
inspection mechanisms to assure higher quality in private schooling.
D. External Financing of the Sector
1.16      The donor community has become increasingly interested in helping
Bangladesh in the education sector. Assistance between 1980-1987 has
increased almost fourfold over that of 1972-1979 (from US$46.1 to US$171.3
million). During the last two decades, apart from the International
Development Association (IDA), the main supporters have been the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programe
(UNDP), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), the Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA), and the Royal Norwegian Development Cooperation (NORAD) (see Annex 4
for details). Assistance by these agencies is either channeled through
projects consisting only of formal education activities or others, bearing on
rural development, literacy and mass education programs.



S. IDA's Role and Sector LendinR Strategy
1.17      An important role of IDA in the development of increased and more
equitable educational opportunity has been its consistent support for the
expansion and improvement of primary education, which requires sustained
investments over long periods of time. Because primary education does not
have the influential power-base of the post-secondary sub-sector, the
continued support of IDA and the donor community for increased access and
quality enhancement of primary education helps the Government to maintain its
priority for achieving UPS in spite of the pressures to divert financing to
more politically attractive investments in the sector.
1.18      Another role of IDA in the sector is to assist the Government in the
coordination of the growing number of donors who wish to become involved In
the sector. The many discussions between IDA and the GOB and the subsequent
delineation of a sectoral strategy have provided a framework for sectoral
coordination that looks beyond the limits of the more traditional five-year
planning cycles.!' The proposed project is attracting a number of interested
donors (paras. 3.11-3.13) further ensuring a focussed effort toward
coordinated sectoral goals.
1.19      IDA's education sector lending strategy in the immediate post-
independence period was one of financing efforts to increase the supply and
quality of agricultural and technical manpower. Two projects, the Agriculture
University and Polytechnics Project, Credit 407-BD and the Agriculture and
Rural Training Project, Credit 621-BD are illustrative of this early strategy.
In the late 19709 and early 1980s the sectoral strategy placed a greater
emphasis on meeting basic educational needs through primary education and
vocational education. Lending operations included the First and Second
Primary Education Projects, Credits 1054-BD and 1574-BD, and the Vocational
Training Project, Credit 912-BD. In this period, post-secondary education and
skill training was also supported in the Business Management Project, Credit
1318-BD, the Public Administration project, Credit 1349-3D, the Second
Agricultural Training project, Credit 1396-BD, and the Technical Education
Project, Credit 1490-BD. Today, IDA's lending strategy focusses upon the
development of basic skills, in recognition of the large unmet need for
literacy and vocational skills and of the need to reduce wastage and improve
quality in general education. This current strategy is reflected in the
proposed General Education Project, and the proposed Technical and Vocational
Education Project, FY93. In the current primary education project, emphasis
has been placed on the institu _nalization of quality inputs, such as
curriculum development, textbook revision, provision of supportive learning
materials and the development and piloting of good models of recurrent teacher
train4ng, developed under the Fourth (Primary) Education Project (Credit 1054-
BD).9I These *tried and testedt elements will form the core of the General
The Bank completed a sector review in March of 1988 "Bangladesh--A Review
of Selected Issues in Sducation". This was followed by the GOB sector
review in June of 1988 Policy Paper on Education".
91 This is in line with the major recommendations of the Project Completion
Report. The World Bank (1990) Project Completion Reports Bangladesh:
Fourth (Primary) Education Project, p. 24.



Education Project and they will be institutionalized throughout the primary
system on a gradual and systematic basis (see also Project Sustainability,
para 3.23).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Objectives
2.01      The project will support a number of important Government policy
objectives for the sector, especially those in primary education.
Specifically, the project wills (a) increase dquitable access to primary and
secondary schooling; (b) improve the quality of education at the primary and
secondary levels; (c) strengthen the management capacity of the privi y and
secondary sub-sectors; and (d) prepare future policies and programs to reform
the structure and financing of higher secondary and post-secondary levels.
B. Pro1ect Description
2.02      The project will be implemented over five years.  The majority of
project financing (approximately 952) will be devoted to the continued
strengthening of the primary education sub-sector begun by the GOB in 1980 and
aided by two successive IDA credits (1054-BD and 1574-BD). In addition, the
project will make selective but limited investments in secondary education to
begin to increase the quality and efficiency of the sub-sector by
strengthening the planning, administration and monitoring capacity of the
Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE), reforming the
examination system and improving textbooks and curricula and continuing the
existing secondary school scholarship program for poor girls. The completion
date for the project will be June 30, 1995.
COMPONENT NUMBER ONE: EXPANDING EQUITABLE ACCESS TO PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
SCHOOLING
2.03      This component is designed to increase equitable access to primary
and secondary schooling bys (a) constructing and renovating primary achool
classrooms; (b) establishing satellite schools; (c) financing non-formal
primary education programs; (d) making Government schools more attractive; and
(e) providing scholarships for female secondary school students.
Construction or Renovation of Government Primary School Classrooms Sub-
Component--US$108.9 Million
2.04      Project activities financed under this sub-component will result in:
(a) improved access by the development of lower cost, in part
community-supported, primary school buildings;
(b) increased implementation capacity through the shift of
responsibility for the construction of rural primary schools to
the upazilas, and improving the monitoring and supervisory
capacity for rural school construction;
(c) the adoption of construction standards requiring new schools to
serve as flood refuges; and



- 8 -
(d) development of a school facilities research capacity.
2.05      The appraisal mission estimated that by the year 2000 a stock of
about 230,000 primary school classrooms will be required in Bangladesh to meet
the projected growtdh of enrollment-101 On the basis of available data, about
130,000 classrooms already exist in 44,000 government and non-government
primary schools. This would imply the construction of about 100,000 net new
classrooms over the next 10-year period (Annex 3, Table 2). In addition,
assuming a very conservative 3S per annum rate for the replacement of existing
classrooms, this would add a requirement to construct a further 4,000 each
year, plus a sizeable maintenance program.   The cost and construction
capacity implications of such a program are staggering. Direct Government
costs to build and furnish sufficient Government classrooms to meet qnrollment
demands by the year 2000 would total an estimated US$700.0 milluonu11, a sum
far beyond the capacity of the Governme..t and the aid communlty to finance.
The annual demand for new classrooms (about 10,000 on average) would also
exceed current implementation capacity, which is estimated to be no more than
3,000 classrooms per annum.
2.06      The project will however support a modest construction program vhich
will satisfy only 30? of the projected need during the project period. There
are several reasons for financing such a conservative programs (a) the school
map is just being updated. It has not been updated since 1984 (and for some
sections of the school map, not since the early 19809), so there is little
reliable data to judge accurately the building needs for new and replacement
schools; (b) government statistics are not yet completely verified for each
upazila, so it is difficult for the MDO to make accurate projections of
enrollment on which to base school building needs; and (c) the management
capacity of the upazilas to oversee the construction and maintenance of a
large number of primary schools has not been tested. Therefore the project
will support a modest program to provide 10,000 new or replacement
conventional classrooms, estimated to cost about US$61.1 million.121 US$25
million of the project funds will be reserved for the funding of low-cost
classrooms. This could yield up to 12,000 additional classrooms over the 5-
year period. The Government will develop a program for the utilization of
this fund acceptable to IDA on the basis of a pilot program (paras. 3.24-
3.25). It is anticipated, that by the end of the project period, the
0/ Includes both public and private schools. Private schools currently
account for approximately 12Z of the total enrollment.
11 Based on 1989 construction and furniture costs for Government primary
schools of the type currently being constructed by the Government.
T21 his financing for conventional classrooms will be retained to provide
for a transition period to the new lower-cost style and to provide
financing for higher cost urban schools.



-9-
Government's construction program will be thopughly tested, and, if
appropriate, an accelerated program adopted.td3
2.07      Lower-Cost School Construction Option.  In light of the high cost of
meeting this demand for primary schools, the Government has agreed to develop
and begin to construct, during the life of the project lower-cost classrooms.
Not only will the classrooms be of simpler construction, but communities will
be asked to contribute labor and materials in their construction. To serve as
flood refugees, these schools will be constructed on earth mounds above the
100-year flood level. Preliminary estimates indicate that a three-room school
of this type could be provided at a cost of about Tk 150,000-180,000 to
Government, about 402 of the cost of a regular structure.
2.08      Increased Implementation Capacity.  The project will develop a
capacity to construct primary schools at an Increased annual rate eventually
reaching the 12,000 per annum rate required for Government classroom
construction for new and replacement classrooms. In order to achieve this
capacity, the Government has agreed to shift the responsibility for the
construction of the rural primary schools from the MOE Facilities Department
(MOE-PD), to the upazilas. Studies carried out during the preparation period
indicate that the upazilas could better meet the need to substantially
increase implementation capacity, especially if the program were to switch to
the lower-cost school option. Upazila engineers will let the bids and
supervise the construction. The Ministry of Local Government's Engineering
Bureau (LGEB) will provide the monitoring and supervisory capacity (para.
3.23).
2.09      Facilities Department.  About 202 cf the proposed program will be
constructed in towns and cities. This part of the primary school component
will be undertaken by the MOE-FD. The Facilities Department already has
sufficient manpower to undertake this component; however, some redeployment of
staff will be necessary.
2.10      Primary Schools Facilities Research--US$0.3 Million.  There has been
little systematic research into primary schools design in Bangladesh over the
last decade, and the development of basic research capacity within the MOE is
long overdue. In view of the expected continuation of heavy investment in
infrastructure, the MOE will develop an applied research program and establish
a unit to look into alternative approaches to primAry school design, detail,
maintenance, and costs, with a view to incorporat'!ng relevant findings into
primary school construction, furnishings and equipment policy. The project
will finance additional office space, equipment and a vehicle.
Satellite Schools Pilot Program Sub-Component--US$4.7 Million
2.11      Project activities financed under this sub-component will result in
the developm*nt and evaluation of a pilot program which wills
13/ The success of the Government in mobilizing the management reaources of
the upazilas will be reviewed during the mid-term project assessment. If
it is then clear that the Government can embark on an accelerated school
construction program, aud can finance the necessary teachers and
textbooks, the Association will review the possibility for an overlapping
construction credit to support the accelerated program.



- 10 -
(a) identify underservedlunder-enrolled villages where cominfnity
support for schooling exists and placement of satellite schools
desired;
(b) construct and staff up to 200 primary schools in village
centers;
(c)  experiment with ways to involve parents and other commmnity
members in the support of the schools; and
(d) rigorously evaluate the success of these schools in Increasing
the enrollment and retention of the very poor and especially
rural girls.
2.12      There is evidence from limited satellite school experimentation in
Bangladesh that bringing the school building closer to the homes of the
children results in higher enrollment and retention of the poor and especially
girls. The pilot program will be limited to 8-10 upazilas (for ease of
supervision and evaluation) and will include construction of up to 200 low
cost schools modelled on the approach outlined in paras. 3.24-3.25. Up to
three to four satellite schools will be clustered around, but at some distance
from, an existing government primary school. The schools will provide at a
minimum, the first three primary grades and provide for the need of younger
children who must accompany their scl.ool-age siblings to school. The
satellite schools will be staffed by locally recruited female instructors who
will be paid a monthly stipend of Tk 400 (US$12) and by teachers from the
local government school who will work half days in the satellite school. Head
teachers from the government schools will provide supervision. Assistant
Upazila Education Officers (AUEOs) will provide training support. To better
assure that this pilot program is sensitive to the needs of girls, all
instructors will be female and the program will be directed by a female
administrator at Deputy Director level, based in the DPE, to be appointed by
December 31, 1990 (para. 5.01).
2.13      The project inputs includes  (a) contribution to construction costs;
(b) stipends to instructors; (c) costs for training of satellite school
instructors and supervisory teachers as well as the training of trainers; (d)
provision of textbooks and teacher's guides; and (e) bicycles for supervising
teachers.
Non-Government Primary Education Programs Sub-Component--US$8.4 million
2.14      Project activities financed under this sub-component will:
(a) support non-formal primary education programs to reach the very
poor and girls; and
(b) use NGOs and coammunity groups to experiment with a variety of
school-based programs to make the Government primary schools
more attractive to the very poor and girls.
ZLi:;     The project will support two government grant programs to increase
access to primary schooling. One program will earmark funds for non-formal
primary education to reach underserved areas of the country and older students
of primary school age who have not had the opportunity for formal primary



- 11 -
schooling. The other program will provide grant funds to assist NGOs and
community groups who wish to develop experimental programs designed to make
the government primary schools more attractive to the poor and to girls. Both
programs will be managed by a cell in the Project Coordination Office.
Financing will be provided by donor grant funds, and representatives of the
donors including SIDA and The Netherlands Directorate General for
International Cooperation (DGIS). will be members of a steering commlttee.
2.16      The non-formal primary education program--US$7.l million-- will be
divided into two sub-programst
(a) The program for experienced NGOs. Seventy-five percent of the
funds available, US$5.32 million, will be placed in a fund to
finance non-formal primary educstion programs carried out by
experienced NGOs qualified to implement non-formal primary
education program quickly and with high likelihood of success;
and
(b) The program for new or less experienced community groups and/or
NGOs. Twenty-five percent of the funds available, US$1.78
million, will be placed in a fund to develop the expertise of
less experienced NGOs, and to finance non-formal primary
education programs developed by community groups. A portion of
ti~ese funds will be reserved to retain experienced NGO trainers
to assist local groups and other NGOs develop their programs.
2.17      The Government School Attractiveness Program (US$0.9 million) will
provide grants to community groups and NGOs who wish to develop programs to
make the government primary schools more attractive to the poor and girls.
The programs will include, but not be limited to, school feeding programs,
provision of school uniforms, teaching aids and community outreach programs.
The programs will be designed to be replicable.
2.18      Administration of the grant funds will be governed by the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'. Draft
letterp of invitation have been discussed with the Goverament. A summary of
the selection criteria to be included in the letters of invitation is attached
in Annex S. Up to three percent of the funds available for the sub-component
could be used for evaluation of the NGO/community programs.
Female Secondary School Scholarship Sub-Component--Approximately US$5.2
Million to be Parallel-Financed by ODA
2.19      Activities financed under this sub-component will result ins
(a) increased enrollment and retention of poor girls in secondary
schools; and
(b) the maintenance of a proven and cost-effective program.
2.20      The project will support the continuation of a very successful
Female Education Scholarship Program which has been financed by the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) and managed by the Asia
Foundation. In 1987 24,000 secondary school girls had been enrolled in the
program. ODA has agreed in principle to finance the continuation of the



- 12 -
program, and will develop a detailed project plan prior to cessation of USAID
funding at the end of 1991. Dropout rates have diminished from a high of
14.71 in 1979, the first year of the program to the 1987 low of 3.5Z. Because
the scholarships are maintained only if girls attend school regularly,
attendance has risen (even non-scholarship female students have shown
increased attendance). There is considerable evidence that the program has
enhanced the social status of the participating women and improved the
financial position of the participating schools because of regular tuition
payments. In addition. given the strong inverse correlation between the level
of education and fertility, it is likely that the program will have a
beneficial impact on reducing fertility. Moreover, the program will help
reduce the severe shortage of qualified women who can serve as teachers,
health and extension workers, etc.
COMPONENT NUMBER TWOt IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF GENERAL EDUCATION
2.21      Significant investments already have been made by the Government to
improve the quality of primary education. In-service teacher training has
been improved by the development of the cluster training system for school-
level training, and by increased supervision (Annex 1, para. 8). Other
developments include the initial steps in the reform of the primary school
curriculum, the development of a program of continuous pupil assessment and
automatic promotion (Annex 1, para. 5). The activities financed under this
component will build upon these innovations to assure their further
development and institutionalization throughout the system. Project
activities will include a greatly expanded teacher training sub-component in
close coordination with the work begun in textbook and curriculum reform.
Coordination of activities related to teacher training, curriculum and
textbook development will be critical to the success of this component (see
Annex 6 for details). The project will also extend support to the secondary
level, concentrating upon the integrated development of curricula, textbooks,
teacher training and examinations, as well as improved supervision of the
schools. Population education will be strengthened in the curricula of the
primary and secondary grades.
Training of Primarv School Teachers Sub-Component--US$74.2 million
2.22      The activities financed under this sub-component will by the end of
the project period result in the following improvements in teacher training:
(a) The Directorate of Primary Education's Training Division will
be better able to monitor and coordinate all primary teacher
training;
(b) In-service teacher training will be improved and linked to
promotion;
(c) The Primary Teachers Training Institutions will be strengthened
through increased faculty training, increased numbers or women
faculty assigned to PTIs, and improved facilities, especially
libraries and residential accoamodations for women;
(d) Sixty percent of all new primary teachers will be women;



- 13 -
(e) In-service (cluster) training at the school level will be more
frequent, and will include training in the use of the newly
developed Essential Learning Curriculum and Continuous Pupil
Assessment, and for population education; and
(f) The National Academy for Primary Education (NAPE) will be fully
staffed, its facilities renovated, and its library and audio-
visual capacity increased.
2.23      Pre-service Teacher Education.  The project will refurbish the
facilities and strengthen the faculty of the 53 existing PTIs and support
their phased upgrading to full college status as Teacher Training Colleges.
Facilities will be renovated, additional dormitory facilities for w'uen
constructed (with improved space norms for women's study, latrine and washing
facilities) and some teaching accomodation for small group and micro-teaching
approaches constructed. Library facilities will also be upgraded and extended
to include more study space, and a tutorllbrarian trained for each PTI. The
stock of books will be extended to reflect modern primary school practice.
The capacity for audio-visual aid production, storage and utilization will
also be improved. Maintenance of the PTIs will be carefully monitored and
supported. The project will support, on a declining basis, the additional
salary increments necessary to improving the PTIs.
2.24      The Government has prepared draft Recruitment Rules for primary
school teachers to allow recruitment of female primary school teachers at a
ratio of 60:40 to men. Women with an SSC qualificat on will be provisionally
accepted as teachers and will have their appointments confirmed upon
attairment of the Certificate in Education from the PTI. They will also be
posted near to their residence. The adoption of the Recruitment Rules
reflecting these changes will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 5.02).
The Association will finance, on a declining basis, the new female primary
school teachers hired during the project (see Annex 7 for teacher demand and
supply and calculations of project costs for primary school teachers).
2.25      In-service Teacher Education and Training.  The project will
integrate initial and in-service teacher education more closely together and
with curriculum and textbook development. The Training Division of the DPE
will be responsible for the integration of the training calendar with textbook
and curriculum development. Primary teachers will be trained more frequently
in cluster training at the school level. Revised cluster training pamphlets
will be developed to focus on the revised primary curriculum and assessment
procedures as well as including specific references to health, environmental,
population and gender issues in the teacher guidebooks. Supervision at the
school level will continue to be strengthened. AUEO training will be
intensified and the project will provide a bicycle for each AUEO, in order to
enhance their mobility and the frequency of their visits to schools.
Particular attentlon will be given to efforts to increase the effectiveness,
qualifications, status and salary level of primary school headteachers.
2.26      The project will provide for the retraining of all educational
personnel in the primary education system, as well as for the orientation of
voluntary personnel such as Parent Teachers Association and School Management
Committee chairpersons. The cluster training system will be completely
revised to focus upon the dissemination of the revised curriculum and



- 14 -
textbooks. Lessons will be reinforced in two-year cycles of training to
institutionalize the new curriculum and materials.
2.27      The Development of the Directorate of Primary Education (DPE)
Training Division. The management capacity of the DPE Training Division will
be increased so that it can prepare and maintain a rolling master plan for the
recurrent in-service training of all educational personnel; monitor and
evaluate the cluster training program more frequently; and further develop
work begun under the current project to link In-service training to primary
teacher promotion. The project will finance Incremental staff salaries on a
declining basis, vehicles, materials and equipment and minor alterations to
facilities.
2.28      In-Service Teacher Training Linked to Promotion. Work begun to
develop a career path plan for primary school teachers during the Second
Primary Education Project (Credit 1574-BD) will be continued under the
proposed project. The MOE will link credit for in-service training to
promotion criteria. The Government has agreed to update, in consultation with
the Association, the procedures for the promotion of primary school teachers
to include credit for in-service training by June 30, 1991 (para. 5.01). 4
2.29      The National Academy for Primary Education.  NAPE (Annex 1,
para. 17) will be stre2gthened to improve its performance as the country's
apex institution in the field of primary education. Its residential and
teaching facilities will be upgraded and laundry and sanitation facilities for
women improved. Its library and audio-visual facilities will be improved,
additional study space provided, and its stocXA of books and periodicals
extended and focussed more closely on good primary school practice. Vacant
positions will be filled and an additional grade inserted to provide a career
ladder for staff. On average four faculty per year will receive in-country
education to the master's or doctorate level on condition that they return to
NAPE for at least five years after completion of their studies.
2.30      Staff at NAPE will provide training for approximately 2,400 AUEOs
either at NAPE or selected PTIs. They will assist in the revision of the
Certificate in Education and Higher Certificate courses as well as in the
design of a modular and distance version of the Higher Certificate and
Certificate Courses. An academic feasibility study will be undertaken by NAPE
of the introduction of a Bachelor of Education (in-service) for primary
teachers and a pilot design prepared. NAPE will participate with the Teacher
Training Division of the DPE and the National Institute of Educational
Administration, Extension and Research (NIEAER) in the construction and
delivery of a series of foundation and brief follow-up courses for the primary
directorate, administrators, Upazila and District Primary Education Officers
and Superintendents of PTIs, with particular reference to the revised primary
curriculum.
Curriculum Dove looent for Primary and Secondary Schools Sub-Component--US$1l.9
Million
2.31      Project activities financed under this sub-component will result
ins
(a) completion of curriculum revisions for all primary grades;



- 15 -
(b) field trials as well as the production of teaching materials
for Classes I-Vs
(c) the revised curriculum (with associated teaching materials) for
Classes I-V introduced into all primary schools; and
(d) lessons learned from the primary school curriculum development
applied to the junior secondary school curriculum, to begin the
process of development and field trials.
Primary School Curriculum--US$l.6 Million
2.32      During the project period the revised curriculum and associated
teaching materials for Classes I-V will be introduced to all primary schools.
This will require the development of teacher guides, textbooks and training
tapes, manuals on mastery learning in language, arts, mathematics and
environmental studies. In addition, all PTI instructors will be trained in
the new curriculum and its applications to pre-service and in-service teachex
training. AUEOs will be retrained and cluster training materials provided for
their use.
2.33      The project will support the further development of the Essential
Learning Curriculum and Continuous Pupil Assessment and their introduction
into Classes I through V in all schools. New curriculum materials will be
developed in concert with the revision and issue of new textbooks, together
with teacher guides and materials and courses of both initial and in-service
teacher education. The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1990 staff
with knowledge of Women in Development issues will be added to the NCTB and
financed by the project (para. 5.01). They will be responsible for monitoring
the curricula and textbooks developed by the NCTB to assure there is no sexist
language in the teachingllearning materials, and that the curricula and
textbooks help foster a productive economic and social role of women in the
society.
2.34      Through the process of curriculum reform, a more efficient
deployment of teachers will be achieved, incrementally during the life of the
project. The new primary curriculum, already successfully piloted for Classes
I and II, is designed on the basis of a "class-teacher" approach, with one
teacher being responsible for teaching all subjects to a class of pupils. One
teacher is, therefore, allocated to each school for each class in the morning
shift and also teaches one class in the afternoon shift. This approach wif.
be institutionalized throughout the system, as the curriculum and textbooks
are revised and teachers retrained for Classes III to V. In this way, the
deployment of teachers will be brought into line with the demands of the new
curriculum, with an estimated saving of 20X. The Government has agreed to
this principle of redeployment to be implemented by the end of the project
period on a schedule satisfactory to the Association (para. 5.01).
2.35      one of the major problems in implementing the new curriculum in
primary schools is the lack of professional motivation of teachers. To
encourage the adoption of the new methods and content, therefore, and in
addition to the other measures linking in-service to promotion and increasing
the status of teacher training, an incentive scheme has been built into the
project to reward those upazilas, schools, headteachers and teachers, who
successfully and speedily adopt the new curricula. The scheme will be



- 16 -
administered by the Divisional Primary Education Officers and the Upazils
Education Officers. A small sum will be allocated to each upazila which may
be used to purchase books, teaching materials or mall items of furniture or
equipment for a teacher, as a reward for successful implementation of the new
curriculum.
2.36      Institutional Development of the Curriculum Wing of the National
Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB). The project will provide for the
expansion and upgr&i.ing of the staff, facilities and equipment of the
curriculum wing of the NCTB. Provision will be made for desk-top publishing
and word-processing facilities, including new typewriters, photocopying
facilities, office equipment and furniture. The project will provide
financial support for the creation or utilization of existing reproduction
facilities for training videos, upgrading of library books, periodicals and
facilities, as well as minor works alterations to provide small meeting rooms
and furnishings, appropriate to the workshop style of approach, adopted by the
NCTB. Technical assistance will be given to support both academic and
technical improvements and 60 staff-months of fellowships will be provided.
Secondary School Curriculum--Approximately US$0.2 Million tt be Parallel-
Financed by UNDP
2.37      A natural entry point to the development of the secondary curricula
will be an extension to the lower secondary schools (Classes VI-VIII) of the
lessons learned from the primary school curriculum reform. The project will
focus on the development of an appropriate Essential Learning Continuum with
its emphasis upon mastery learning. Priority will be given to the development
of language skills and mathematics as these are the essential skills for those
who drop out as well as for those who continue their academic trainin-. The
development of the Continuous Pupil Assessment will assist teachers in the
diagnosis and academic support of pupils in their mastery learning. The
strengthening of this curriculum will be accomplished in close coordination
with the development of the examination system. Additional curriculum
development support will be provided for population education.
Textbook Development Sub-Component--USS54.4 Million
2.38      Project activities under this sub-component will result ins
(a) the revision of primary school textbooks to reflect the new
curricula;
(b) the continued provision of free textbooks to primary school
students;
(c) the institution of cost-saving measures for textbook use;
(d) the revision of lower secondary textbooks in concert with
changes in curricula; and
(e) further professionalization of the NCTB.
2.39      Primary School Textbook Development--US$54.2 Million.  Project
inputs will support the reorganization of the ICTB to increase production
efficiency, and more closely integrate its activities with curriculum



- 17 -
development and teacher training. New textbooks will be introduced in concert
with the introduction of the new curriculum (para. 2.32). ICTIBs production
capacity will be strengthened. The NCTB will seek to reduce turnover by
creating long-term professional posts. Consideration will be given to
selective re-use of textbooks and other cost-saving measures. In the first
year of the project a pilot study will be made of two or more re-use models to
Pasib't in the formulation of a re-use program for the entire primary education
system in the third year of the project. By June 30, 1993 the MOE will, (on
the basis of the NCTB textbook re-use pilot study) develop its policy
recommendations for possible re-use of selected textbooks (para. 5.01). The
project will provide technical assistance in the form of international experts
and fellowships and in-country training. Additional staff will be financed on
a declining basis, and the NCTB will increase its number of permanent staff to
further professionalize its textbook wing.
2.40      The project will support the financing of paper for textbooks and
their production and distribution costs. Grant financing is being sought for
paper, but IDA and ADB will be financiers of last resort for paper should the
Government not be able to find sufficient donors. Annex 8 shows the current
financing requirements for the primary school textbooks.
2.41      Secondary School Textbook Development--proximately US$0.2 Million
to be Parallel-Financed by UNDP. Secondary school textbook development will
follow the secondary school curriculum revisions (para. 2.37). Textbooks for
the lower secondary schools will be developed in mathematics, language and
science. The project will finance foreign and local consultants, overseas
fellorships and equipment.
Population Education Sub-Component--Approximately US$2.7 Million to be
Parall*A'-Financed by UNPPA and ADB
2.42      Project activities financed under this sub-component will completes
(a) the development of a population education unit in the NCTB;
(b) the creation of population education teaching/learning
materials for Classes I-X; and
(c) the training of teacher trainers, teachers and AUEOs.
2.43      The project will support the institutionalization of population
education in the formal school system, Classes I-X. A population education
unit will be established in the NCTB to guide curricula and textbook
development. The unit will integrate population education in the social and
general science curricula with specific messages related to family size and
welfare, delayed narriage and population beliefs and values. material will
also be included to help students address broader issues related to family
relationships, including gender role& and responsibilities, status of women,
adolescent fertility related problems, drug abuse, personal hygiene,
nutrition, and the environment.
2.44      Technical assistance in the form of local expert assistance,
fellowships, study visits, and professional attachments will be provided as
will equipment and additional staff. Training will be provided for primary



- 18 -
and secondary school teachers, integrated in the pre-service and  in-service
training programs.
Examination Reform Sub-Component--Approximately US$0.4 Million to be Parallel-
Financed by MNDP
2.45      Project activities financed under this sub-component will:
(a) strengthen the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education;
(b) restructure the SSC and USC examinationes and
(c) improve the reliability and validity of the examinations.
2.46      The project will support Government plans to improve the strqcture
and functions of the Boards of Intenmediate and Secondary Education.131 These
autonomous, self-financing institutions are responsible for the design and
administration of the SSC and USC examinations.  It is planned that
examinations for the SSC and HSC will be set nationally by the Dhaka Board,
and the regional boards will carry out the administration of these
examinations as they do at present. Publication of papers and results will be
managed by the central board. In the SSC and USC examinations results will be
indicated in terms of the level of accomplishment in separate subjects. The
assessment of candidates will be changed to 502 objective type tests with the
other 50 remaining, as essay type questions.
2.47      Reforms in the examination system will be coordinated with
curriculum reform (para. 2.37). A two-pronged approach to examination reform
will be considered, one coming from proposed changes in the junior secondary
curriculum and the other from higher secondary. The latter level is already
beginning to experiment with developing objective tests through the work of
the Boards and through an Asian Development Bank (ADB) project In secondary
science. These initiatives will continue. Developments in the reform of the
examination system will be supported by close involvement of teachers and
teacher educators, through in-service and where possible, pre-service
training. The project will finance expatriate and local consultant
assistance. Overseas fellowships to train key personnel will also be
provided.
COMPONENT NUMBER THREE: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
2.48      This component is designed to strengthen the management capacity of
the sector in areas the Government has identified as the highest priority. It
will accomplish this by: (a) increasing its capacity to train members of the
education cadre in essential management skills; (b) lmproving the collection
and analysis of data so they are of maxim=m utility to policy-makers, planners
and administrators; and (c) improving the capacity of the Government to
monitor the quality of secondary schools.
13/ There is one Board in each of the four Divisions of the country.



- 19 -
Management Develolment Sub-Component--Approximately USS1.2 Million to be
Parallel-Financed by UNDP
2.49      In order to provide a more highly trained cadre of education
administrators, the National Institute for Educational Administration,
Extension and Research (NIEAER) will become the staff college for the
education sector and a center of excellence for training in educational
administration and management. The present extension courses in subject
curricule for College lecturers will be transferred. Its staff will be
reconstituted to provide trainers in educational management with the number of
annual courses in administration and management greatly increased. Equipment,
furniture and technical assistance will be provided. The faculty will be
recruited, as far as possible, with an equitable balance of men and women, and
from those with primary, secondary and post-secondary level administrative
experience.
2.50      Courses will be provided in five subject areas:  (a) Education
Planning; (b) Management; (c) Administration and Supervision; (d) Cost and
Finance; and (e) Research and Education Management Information Systems. The
project will finance technical assistance (consultancies, fellowships and
study tours) as well as in-country training. In addition, the project will
provide books and journals and equipment.
Education Manasement Information System (EMIS) Sub-Component--Approximately
US$1.1 Million to be Parallel-Financed by'UNDP
2.51      Project activities financed under this sub-component vill result ins
(a) establishment of a sectoral Education Management Information
System (ENIS) to collect, store and analyze data to guide
policy analysis and operations of the ministry and its
operational directorates;
(b) completion of the data collection and management system begun
during the second Primary Education Project in the Directorate
of Primary Education;
(c) creation of a similar system in the Directorate of Secondary
and Higher Education (DSHE);
(d) development of the Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information
and Statistics (BANBEIS) to serve as the apes institution for
sectoral data collection and management;
(e) a functioning educational management data base for policy
makers in the MOE; and
If) creation of a coordinating commission to set standards and
coordinate activities.
2.52      To lmprove the data collection, management, analysis, and dissemi-
nation functions within the MOE, the project will provide a three-pronged
approach. Firet. it vill strengthen each agency vested with these functions
by developing its data collecting and processing systems, and providing it
with necessary trained personnel and equipment. The three main units which



- 20 -
currently collect educational data from schools are: (i) the Bangladesh
Bureau of Educational Information and Statistices (ii) the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit in the DPEs and (iiI) the Management Information System in the
DPE. The formats used in each case vary slightly due to the different
purposes for which data are collected. Second, to improve the efficiency of
these different agencies, a centralized coordinating capability will be
created. At present, cooperation among the central Bangladesh Bureau of
Statistics, BANBEIS, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and the DPE's EHIS is
weak. There are several areas for coordination among these agencies,
including the identification of data requirements for administrative and
analytical purposes of the MOE, the development of a system of data collection
and verification, and the training of officers at the upazila and district
levels. Third, to improve the means by which data are collected and verified,
the MOE (in order to obtain a higher degree of accuracy in the data recorded
by headteachers, AUEOs and Upazila Education Officers) reduce any real or
implied benefits to these officers due to inflated earollment figures.
2.53      The project will build upon the work begun in the DPE during the
Second Primary Education Project to bring to a fully operational stage the
computerized EMIS. A similar system will be developed and installed for the
secondary sub-sector in the Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education.
BANBEIS will be strengthened to amalgamate summary data from the primary and
secondary sub-sectors and other information sources, to analyze these data and
publish summaries of educational statistics and analyses of the policy and
program implications inherent in the information. The Planning Cell of the
HOE will be assisted to further develop its data analysis capacity to aid
decision makers and planners in the ministry. An EMIS Coordinating Committee
will be established. The project will finance the services of an
international expert in EMIS, local consultant services, overseas fellowships
and in-country training, equipment and a vehicle.
Secondary Education Supervision Sub-Component--Approximately US$0.6 million
to be Parallel-Financed by UNDP
2.54      Activities financed under this sub-component will result in the
development of the supervisory capacity ff the directorate.
2.55      The current inspection capacity of the secondary sub-sector is
limited to audits of the physical facilities of the secondary schools. The
Government wishes to develop the capacity to carry out a full educational
audit of the educational as well as the physical condition of secondary
schools on a regular basis. Special emphasis will be given to assessment of
equity issues in access and opportunities for advancement of pupils and
teachers. Such audits will not only be used to provide a formative evaluation
for school personnel and parents, but also will, in time, become a part of an
accreditation system upon which Government financing will be based (para.
2.60).
2.56      The project will finance technical assistance in the form of
overseas fellowships as well as local and foreign consultants. The Government
will fill the vacant positions in its inspectorate (only half of the 128
positions are now filled).



- 21 -
Studies Sub-Component--US$0.9 Million
2.57      The project activities financed under this sub-component wvil
includes
(a) studies necessary for the formative evaluation of current
project activities to provide management feedback to project
authorities; and
(b) sub-sectoral assessments and policy/program options for
development of a proposed follow-on project (FY95).
Studies in Primary Education--US$O.5 Million
2.58      Grant financing will be provided by the joint flnanciers for a wide
range of investigative studies. Studies In the primary education sub-sector
will include, but not be limited tot
(a) Summative Evaluation of Primary Il. A very detailed sumative
evaluation of the Second Primary Education Project (Credit
1574-PD) will be undertaken at least two years after its
closing. Such a study will be designed to supplement the
findings of the Project Completion Report by concentrating upon
those areas such as teacher training, curriculum and textbook
reforn, and community participation where project inputs are
likely to have had a delayed impact better measured some time
after the close of the project (terms of reference will be
developed after the Project Completion Report has been
distributed);
(b) Teacher Incentive Program. A study of the feasibility of an
incentive program for primary school teachers. This study will
test the feasibility of monetary and other incentives for
teachers to reduce student dropout and increase attendance
rates (terms of reference have been developed in the field and
are part of the project working papers);
(c) Community Participation Plan. A study of methods to increase
community participation in Government primary schools. This
study will examine the membership and terms of reference of the
institutions and committees that are currently used to provide
community input to primary schooling (terms of reference have
been developed in the field and are part of the project working
papers);
(d) Primary School Textbook Re-use. In the first two years of the
project, two or more models of textbook re-use will be financed
and monitored to establish a cost-effective policy for book re-
use. Policy decisions will be made in early 1993, and the re-
use program introduced in 1994. Draft terms of reference for
the study have been discussed with the Government;
(e) Illustrative studies for program evaluation; and
(f) Proiect preparation studies for future projects.



- 22 -
Studies in Secondary and Higher Education--Aparoximately US$0.4 Million
to be Parallel-Financed by UNDP
2.59      Cost Sharing Study.  In order to improve the level of cost sharing
at higher secondary and post-,econdary levels, preparatory studies will
analyze the current tuition and fee charges at these levels (including the
cost of administering the program). The study will include a review of the
current scholarship and svtipend system. Recommendations for an integrated
cost sharing and student aid program will be developed to allow greater cost
recovery from the relatively well-to-do and to provide scholarship and grant
support for the poor, especially girls.
2.60      Accreditation for Grant Aid.  In addition to developing methods of
encouraging independent private schools and colleges, the project will support
a study to define the most effective manner of providing grant aid to
currently Government supported private secondary schools and colleges. The
Government's large contribution to private schools and colleges is given with
little regard to obtaining increased quality or more equitable access in
exchange for Government support. The study will define the type and content
of regulations and supervisory structure most likely to further such goals as
increased quality and equitable access.
2.61      Trainint and Development of Secondary School Teachers.  Secondary
school teachers, their selection, training and career options, are in serious
need of study. The project will support a study of methods to improve the
selection of teachers. Teacher training specialists will devise methods of
relating the curricula of the pre-service and in-service training of secondary
teachers more closely to the school curriculum. Career path planning for
secondary teachers will be developed.
2.62      management of Secondary and Higher Education.  The Study will
provide the opportunity to examine the organization of the current Directorate
of Secondary and Higher Education. The feasibility of dividing the
directorate into two directorates, one for secondary education (DSE) and one
for higher education (DIE) will be considered. In addition the study will
assess the whole range of management tasks in the secondary sub-sector,
recommending the appropriate organizational sub-units and their terms of
reference. Particular attention will be paid to the time-consuming and
laborious tasks associated with certifying non-government teachers' rosters
for quarterly salary payments and the preparation of pay vouchers. An
organizational design, including the additional personnel and equipment needs
will be prepared.
2.63      A Study of the Post-Primary Sub-Sectors,  This sub-sectoral study is
needed to further define the issues and policy and program options in
secondary and post-secondary education that could be addressed in a follow-on
project. IDA completed a sector review in 1986, but this review did not
provide the detail necessary to discuss future project options with
cofinanciers and the Government. There is need to review the effectiveness of
the post-primary education system in meeting the needs of students for whom
secondary education will be their highest level of education, the needs of
those who will enter post-secondary education, and the special needs of female
students. The study will also identify methods to improve the quality and
efficiency of the item.



- 23 -
1I.  SJC COSTS. FPAZI. DDIPLU   TASION. P.OC=RUI?S AND DISBUTSEMENT
A. Prolect Costs
3.01          Cost Sugmar,.   The total cost of the five-year Investment program
(M191-93) Including duties and taxes on lmported goods s estimated at
US$310.2 millon equlvalent. Details by categories of expenditure and
proportion of foreign exchamge are given In Annex 9. Details by categories of
expenditure and components are In Annex 10. A suary of costs by component
is provided belows
TAM2: 91O=CMSTUSW
Lad    roe*    Tod         Lad   V.u3    rosi  Fsgn as
A. MMSMTO MUMAI TC.U
2. IIjsi91C O_6.                            19    15.          42      0.4    4.7      8%
2.  MOS_hIU                       2?L3             271.1    31.         .     BA       0%
4.  t_ JSc*dIPf                    31w       *A     UID        *J7     I       4.7     29%
:2,.915.  343I.)  4kt01a    91 5     -2.7 1 11.1     27%
3. IMI QUALfOfVPOSUAL
i. P    _ n . T_m  T_bhg          499.9   223.4   726.         5.     7.2   22.8      32%
2._ Im.h P.Ta Tuaq                1.4611    41A   1.65*I      50.l    l.)   SIA        2S
2  ftfM7cw"=Dud*M                   22.6    37.3    SIA        1.0    04      1.6  J 5%
4.          u1.3                             i       7.1       0.1    0.1    0.3      75%
. ft       _ _yTMstwdqMM           567.9  ,331.1  1.74.0      26.9    2.    56.2      50%
46     7      ' _TuZ*MufIdDPui       1.2     4.9     6I        Ql      0.1    0.2     79%
7. P     3l                        55.9     0.0    85.9        1.7    09      2.4     35%
3. Smsip1 _u~hgdaa                  2 3.0    11.0    14.0              0.3    0.4     79%
sdw             XA0S   I..9  427. *Jt              26.0  1332.       29%
C.  4SlmuTI0AL OU oL U
.1-js K                            2m. 32   9.6    40.1        0.9    03      1.2     24S
2.       -T  A9.                    19.9    39.)    294        0.6    0.6    1.2      49%
2. Inw..m1wgsn 3"0                 21.    10.6      2.7        0.3    0.2    1.1      31%
4. S    _-I   ta3u S _iaot          2.2    15.9     1.2        0.1    0.5    0.6      87%
_obWd             76     55.6    132.4        2.4    I.7    4.1      42%
0. STimun                           Il.     1.6 I    0.13      0.    0.4    0.9      38%
"TAL IASlA  COM               6.16.12   2413.4  8.574.    190.9   7.    265.7      28%
no ai_C-                      2670    218.0    582.7      t1.30    6.80    38.3    37%
FiwCENq._                    13417.3    66.4  2..7 *        7.0    9.4   26.4      36%
TOTAL     COS  Ss            7t92    92m3  11*3.0        219.2   91.0  230.2      29%
Not=~~~~~ .. .ol' _, I  -
2a.± I. tdi                                       p _ 7.  1| plsm*o cW. td
*mp pe e         _pimes 32%  t       %     d8i.m  bylimipum
2. t_ amnimdsTSl.7   ale 1131  uElm  u3)a   X
puj.gm.inT h 1.7.? l alie (153.7_ _mq3l)



- 24 -
3.02      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Regular primary school construction costs
are based on Ministry of Education - Facilities Department (MOE-PD) data from
recent school construction contract awards. Construction costs including
toilet provision, water supply and flood protection measures range from
$100im2 or $4,600 per classroom for basic three classroom rural schools to
$120Im2 or $7,660 per classroom for 2-3 story town and city schools complete
with electricity and water supplies. The cost of some special purpose primary
schools in severe flood and tidal storm surge areas will be equivalent to the
cost of urban school construction.
3.03      Satellite school and low-cost school costs are based upon
consultants studies and mission estimates. This approach will employ a
permanent sub-structure and a low-cost superstructure erected through
community self-help procedures plus a well and latrines. The cost per
classroom will depend upon the height of plinth level above grade and the
amount of earth fill to achieve adequate flood protection but will range from
$30-$651m2 or $2,000-$2,700 per classroom. The above costs for primary school
construction compare favorably with similar construction In Pakistan $1631m2
and Nepal $78/m2.
3.04      Primary Teacher Institute and RAPE costs are based on MOE-FD
provisional estimates of renovation requirements and costs of supplementary
new construction at $16/m2 for repairs and $120-$140Im2 for new construction.
3.05      The net area per student in project primary schools varies from 0.65
m2/student in rural schools to 0.74 mZ in city schools. The costs per student
place ranges from a low $42 per place in satellite schools to $95 in rural
primary schools and up to $155 in the more highly serviced town and city
schools.
3.06      Furniture cost estimates are based upon contracts awarded for
standard metal furniture by the MOE-ID during 1989 under the Second Primary
Education Project, Credit 1574-BD.
3.07      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The cost of the project (US$310.2 million) includes import
duties and taxes estimated at US$14.5 million.
3.08      Contingencies and Allowances.  Estimated project costs include
physical contingencies (US$18.1 mlllion) estimated at 72 of base costs of all
project components (102 of civil works, vehicles, books and journals, 92 of
furniture, 72 equipment, and 52 of operations and maintenance). Price
contingencies (US$26.5 million) are estimated for local costs at 92 for FY91,
82 for FY92, and 72 thereafter. Escalation of foreign costs is estimated at
4.92 for FY91-95.
3.09      Foreign Exchange Component.  As shown in Annex 9, the estimated
foreign exchange component (US$91.0 million including contingencies)
represents 292 of the project costs. It has been calculated as followss
(a) construction 30g; (b) furniture 492; (c) equipment and vehicles about 65s;
(d) foreign experts 85Z; (e) fellowships 952; (f) books and journals 492;
(g) operations and maintenances 102; and (h) ccnsumables 102.



- 25 -
B. Financing
Overview
3.10      The total project cost of US$310.2 million equivalent will be
financed as follows: (a) The GOB will finance US$42.3 million including
duties and taxes; (b) UNDP will provide a grant of US$5.0 million equivalent;
(c) UNFPA will provide a grant of US$2.4 million equivalent; (d) UNICEP will
provide a grant of US$10.0 million equivalentl4±'; (e) DGIS will provide a
grant of US$14.0 equivalent; (f) SIDA will provide a grant of US$14.0 million
equivalent; (g) ODA will provide a grant of US$5.7 million equivalent; (h) ADB
will provide financing of US$57.5 million equivalent; and (i) the Association
will finance US$159.3 million equivalent. The contributions through DGIS and
SIDA would be joint-financed with IDA, while the others would be parallel-
financed. Total external financing would cover about 91S of total project
costs net of taxes and duties. The financing plan detailing investment and
recurrent costs is shown in Annex 11. The suumary financing plan is described
in Table 3.2, below.
3.11      The large number of cofinanciers is a result of the intent of the
donor community and the Government to use the General Education Project as a
mechanism to coordinate external financing. The majority of the cofinanciers
participated in the identificatiov, preappraisal and appraisal missions. All
cofinanciers participated in the appraisal mission. In addition, the
cofinanciers met in Dhaka prior to negotiations to confirm their financing
with the Government and IDA. Between appraisal and negotiations ODA shifted
its cofinancing interest to the Female Secondary School Scholarship Program
from the secondary school quality improvement and institutional development
components of the project. ODA is in the process of appraising the sub-
component, and the GOB has officially requested financing of ODA. The UNDP
has agreed to finance the sub-components that ODA had shown earlier interest
in, and is preparing the necessary project documents at the Government's
request. The cofinanciers provided letters of intent to the Government prior
to negotiations. The Government will sign agreements with the joint
financiers as a condition of effectiveness (para. 5.02).
3.12      Discussions among the Government, IDA and ADB have resulted in ADB
financing project activities in the Chittagong Division. The two banks have
agreed upon the policies and programs that are national in character (school
construction, curriculum and textbook development, teacher training, and
initiatives to reach the very poor and especially girls). Cooperation between
the two banks has resulted in a fully integrated project.
1±' UNICEF's contribution is likely to rise after its forthcoming program
review.



- 26 -
TABLE 3.2 FINANCaIG PLAN SUMMRY BY COWMNENT
(U$SMION)
COMPONENT                   GOB    IDA    ADS   DOtS   SIDA   ODA   UNDP UNFPA UNICEF
A. ACCESS TO PRIMARY SCHOOLS
1.  Govnt School Cosrction             15.3   81.6   32.3       3
2.  Saei Schools Pilot                 0.2       -     0.9    2.2    2.2
3.  NOO Gratt Program                    .              -      4.6    4.6       -       -
4.  Female Scholarship Program                   -                      -      5.7      -       -
Sub,t             15.5   81.6   33.2    6.8    6.8    5.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
B. IMPROvE QUALrTY OF GENERAL
EDUCATITON
1.  Preaervice Prim. Tacher Tining     3.3    11.7    4.5    3.3    3.3         -     0.3       -      -
2.  nrvice Prim. Teacher Trining       17.8   32.4    SA       0.9    0.9       -
3.  Pimary Curriulm Dedement           0.2    0.1       -      0.4     OA              0.6      -
4   Sery Curriculum Davelopn             -              -       -       -       -      0.2      -
S.  Primay Textb& Dvelopment           5.2   33.1    12.8    2.3    2.3         -       -       -    10.0
6.  Seonday Textbook Delopment           -      -       -       -                     0.2       -       -
7.  Popuaion Education                   -       -     0.6      -       -       -       -     2.4
S.  Secondary Emnin  Reform                      -      -       -       -       -      0.5              -
Subtal            26.5   77.3   23.3    6.9    6.9    0.0    1.8    2A    10.0
C. 'NSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.  Projec Managemen                     -     0.4    0.9       .       .              1.3
2.  Management Training                0.1       -     0.1      -               -      0.9      -
3.  Managm  Wome    ystettion Sytem    0.2                              -       -
4.  Secondary Education Supevision       -       -      -       -       -       -      0.6
Subtdal            0.3    0.4      1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8    0.0    0.0
D. STUDIES                               -       -      .      0.3    0.3       -      0.4      -       -
TOTAL BY FINANCEER              42.3   159.3   57.5    14.0   14.0    5.7    5.0    2.4    10.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               310.2
Of which: Famgn Costs            91.0
oc0al Coost            219.2
Taxem                   14.5



- 27 -
3.13      Local Cost Financins.  The GOB will contribute US$42.3 million (14?
of total project costs including taxes) to local costs. The Association's
contribution to local financing will be US$107.3 million (35? of total project
cost). The project is of key importance but has a low foreign exchange
content (29t).
3.14      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing will be required to
finance the earlystart-up of the Project Coordination Unit (para. 3.18).  IDA
will provide US$50,000 (0.03? of total Credit) for expenditures incurred on
staffing, equipment and materials after appraisal (May 31, 1989).
3.15      Recurrent Expenditures.  Under the proposed project additional
recurrent costs will be generated bys (a) the recruitment of additional
teachers and AUEOs to staff and supervise Government primary schools built by
the project, and additional administrative staff in the directorates and
agencies of the sector; (b) operation and maintenance of project building
equipment and vehicles; and (c) additional textbooks. The annual additional
recurrent base costs generated by these items will average US$10.5 million.
This sum represents 4t of the MOE recurrent budget for FY89. Funding for
project staff and female primary school teachers will be financed by the
Credit on a declining basis (para. 3.37).
3.16      The Government has taken steps so reduce the rate of increase of its
recurrent costs in the proposed project. For example, the MOE has agreed to
the principle of the redeployment of primary school teachers so that by 1995
in each school there would be one teacher per classroom (teaching staff), with
each teacher teaching two shifts each day (para. 5.01). It is estimated that
this redeployment of teachers from the current practice in which some teachers
do not teach two shifts could result in a 20? reduction of annual teacher
costs (para. 2.34). Additionally, Improved curricula, textbooks and training
of teachers will result in greater pupil retention and therefore lower unit
costs. Textbooks costs will be reduced through better paper utilization and
reuse policies.
C. Implementation
3.17      Project ManaRement.  Project management will be the responsibility
of the operating units of the sector. However, because of the interdependent
nature of the project activities, requiring coordination among these units,
there will be a Project Review and Coordinating Committee chaired by the
Secretary of Education. This committee will approve the annual project plans,
the biannual monitoring reports, the revisions of project profornma and
appointment of consultants. The day-to-day coordination of the project will
be supported by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will assist the
operating units bys (a) developing an Annual Project Plan; (b) assisting in
the coordinating and timing of technical assistance; (c) monitoring project
activities and keeping the operating units and the Secretary informed when key
activities are likely to slip; (d) convening meetings of representatives of
the operating units when necessary to assist in coordination and to trouble-
shoot; and (e) preparing and submitting withdrawal applications (see Annex 12
for details).
3.18      Because of the broad scope and complexity of the project, the MOE
has submitted separate Project Proformas MPPs) to the Planning Commission for
each of the major institutional entities involved in the project. The



- 28 -
development of separate PPs ensures a project plan and budget for all project
activities under the direction of the directorates of primary and secondary
education, the PCTB and the Education Boards. Administrators will be
designated in each of these entities to manage project activities as outlined
in the PP.
3.19      The MOE has brought to negotiations a management scheme for IDA
review specifying the approval and finance mechanisms for project activities.
The filling of the Project Coordinator's position and the establishment and
staffing of the PCU are conditions of effectiveness. Vacancies in the DPE and
NCTB will be filled by May 1, 1990. The Government brought the necessary PPs
as approved by the Planning Commission to negotiations for the Association's
review. Final revisions will be completed by Msrch 31, 1990. The approval of
the PPs by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC),
is a condition of effectiveness (para. 5.01).
3.20      Detailed implementation plans have been developed for each
subcomponent and in the working papers left with the Government during
appraisal. Working paperst (a) identify the issues related to the
subcomponent; (b) summarize project activities designed to address those
issues; (c) describe necessary implementation steps before effectiveness, and
project activities by six-month semesters throughout the project; aud (d)
detailed cost tables.
Proiect Monitoring
3.21      The monitoring of project inputs developed during the first and
second primary education projects consisted of detailed quarterly reports on
achievement of targets. It was a very successful method of summarizing
achievement of input targets and will be continued in this project.
Illustrative studies will be conducted by the project authorities during the
life of the project as part of their formative evaluation of the project
(para. 2.58). These studies will be conducted by local consultants, and will
include, but not be limited to, sample enrollment and retention studies,
evaluation of the cluster training program, a teacher needs assessment, and a
survey of parents of school age children and their attitude toward schools. A
full mid-ternm review of the project will be conducted in order to allow for an
interim assessment and mid-term corrections where necessary. In addition to
the usual project supervision provided by the Borrower and the Association,
SIDA and DGIS have agreed to provide for the financing of a resident project
monitor who will provide, in addition to regular monitoring reports to all the
cofinanclers and the Government, biannual reviews by local and foreign
consultants of the quality of project activities. Prior to the biannual
supervision missions of the cofinanciers and IDA, sampling studies will, for
example, be conducted at the school level to review attendance of teachers and
students, the quality of construction and maintenance and the effectiveness of
supervision and school-level in-service training. The HOE would carry out a
mid-term project review by November 1, 1992 (para. 5.01). This review will
summarize project achievement of its input targets, goals and objectives, and
make recommendations for Improvements. A sim-Ary of all monitoring,
evaluation and research activities is attached in Annex 13.



- 29 -
Proiect Sustainability
3.22      The issue of project sustainability, is of concern in a country
which has under-financed education and it has been addressed carefully.
First, the project is the third of a series, each one of which has had
significant resources devoted to institutional development, making it unlikely
that there will be sufficient institutional and management strength to sustain
project priorities. Second. the Second Primary Education Project has been
performing well, disbursing, In some cases, ahead of appraisal estimates.
There has also been no lack of counterpart financing from the GOB. Indeed, in
recent years, the GOB's annual plan allocations to the primary sub-sector have
been protected in times of budget cutbacks. Third, a heavy emphasis has been
given in the project management design to the integration of the project
activities within the operating units of the MOE. This will help assure the
continuity of professiowal sectoral leadership beyond the project period.
Fourth, the project monitoring system has been designed to provide periodic
feedback to project managers, IDA and cofinanciers to encourage managers to
make corrections vhere necessary during implementation. Moreover, DGIS and
SIDA have agreed to fund jointly full-time project monitor in the field to
supplement IDA supervisory capacity. Finally, the project supports a Fourth
Plen Period priority of the Government. Sustainability assessments have been
informed in part by a case study developed by the Bangladesh Public
Administration Training Center, *Sustainability of Primary Education
Projects", and by the Completion Report of the Fourth (Primary) Education
Project, Credit 1054-BD. Both reports emphasized the need for a permanent
implementation capacity that would not be lost to the sector upon completion
of the project, and the need for improved supervision.
Civil Works
3.23      Management of Civil Works for Rural Schools.  For rural schools the
Local Government Engineering Bureau (LGEB) will establish and maintain
centrally an Implementation Monitoring and Reimbursement Unit (IMRU) that will
be responsible for the collection of data on implementation performance and
expenditures from the various upazilas. The project will support the
operating cost of the unit which will be contracted with by the Project
Coordination Unit aad paid a consultant fee. A draft reporting and monitoring
format will be provided by the PCU for LGEB supervision of rural schools
(para. 3.24). Frequent site supervision has been identified as a key element
necessary to ensure construction quality in Bangladesh. Overall supervision
of construction works will be carried out by the technical staff of the
upazilas headed by the upazila engineers. To facilitate the supervision of
sites by upacila staff, the project will finance one motorcycle per upazila
plus replacement of up to 25Z of these vehicles through Year 5. The operation
and maintenance costs will be borne by the upazilas. The LGEB executive
engineers at district level will provide technical assistance to upazila
engineering staff, monitor their performance and ensure timely submission of
reports on expenditures by the upazilas for reimbursement purposes. Funds
will be advanced each year by MOE to the upazilas through the Local Government
Division (LGD) of the MLGC on the basis of a program acceptable to IDA (para.
3.30). At the end of each fiscal year the PCU based on LGEB data will be
required to certify to IDA that the expenditures incurred against the project
by each upazila have been verified as appropriate and prior to release of
further project funds to that upazila. Failure to provide acceptable reports
will render an upauila ineligible for financing (para. 5.01).



- 30 -
3.24      Development of the Low-Cost School Construction ProrEam.  A program
will be developed VD with criteria and format acceptable to IDA (Annex 14).
The program will require significant community involvement, and could yield up
te. 12,000 additional classrooms over the five-year implementation period. A
pilot program for which US$200,000 equivalent will be allocated, will test the
effectiveness of implementation procedures and will be evaluated before the
release of main program funds.
3.25      Conditions of disbursement for the pilot program are the submission
of a detailed implementation plan accrvtable to IDA and the selection and
appointment of ArchitecturallEngineering consultants to monitor the pilot and
prepare an evaluation report. Completion of the pilot program to IDA
satisfaction, the development of an implementation plan for the main component
and the confirmation of appointment of consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA to monitor implementation and prepare annual reports of
progress is a condition of further disbursement against this component (para.
2.11). The Government confirmed at negotiations that a mid-term rsview would
be carried out at the end of the third year of the project (para. 5.01).
3.26      Managoment of Civil Works for Urban Schools and Training Centers.
The Ministry of Education's Facilities Department (PD) will cont       to have
responsibility for the construction of urban schools and institutions. About
202 (2,000) of the proposed regular classrooms would be constructed in towns
and cities. The PD will undertake the construction of these schools,
employing acceptable standardized designs and contract bid-award procedures
developed under the Second Primary Education Project (Credit 1574-BD). The
PD, which currently undertakes all primary school construction will be
reorganized and staff redeployed accordingly.
3.27      Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTIs) and NAPE.  The MOE-PD
will undertake design and supervision of the upgrading of 53 PTIs and NAPE.
For the 14 PTIs and NAPE, scheduled for upgrading in the first year of the
program, the PD will prepare schedules of the work required at each institute,
and prepare sketch plans, cost estimates and bidding documents by May 1, 1990
(para. 5.01). During negotiations the Government confirmed, that a list of
PTIs for subsequent years programs complete with design proposals, cost
estimates and draft bidding documents will be available for IDA review by
April 30 of the fiscal year preceding the start of construction (para. 5.01).
3.28      Architectural Services.  Standard plans prepared by the MOE-PD under
the Second Primary Education Project will be employed for primary school
construction except as noted in para. 2.06 for low cost primary schools.
Design and supervision services will be provided by the MOE-PD for the
renovations of the 53 PTIs and NAPE. It is expected that the research
component (para. 2.10) will lead to the development of revisions to standard
school types and possible use by the project.
3.29      Site Acquisition and School Selection.  On the basis of experience
gained under two previous projects in the sector, site acquisition is
generally not a problem. Except in some city areas where land is scarce,
sites are normally donated for new schools and most existing schools have
access to sufficient space for additional or replacement classrooms. To link
the construction program to Bangladesh's budget cycle it is essential that all
formalities regarding selection of school location by the upatilas, MOE



- 31 -
approval of location, site verification and where necessary acquisition plus
the preparation of bidding documents, are completed by the end of the prior
fiscal year. During negotiations the Government submitted a preliminary list
of schools in the FY91 program and confirmed that for the duration of the
project, by April 30 of the fiscal year prior to construction MOE will have
completed the formalities relating to school location site selection and
status of financial compliance and that the results will be sent to IDA for
review (para. 5.01).
3.30      Maintenance.  Maintenance of primary school infrastructure is the
responsibility of the respective upazila or municipal authority and although
their budgets do include maintenance, the amounts are insufficient and little
effective preventive maintenance is undertaken. Maintenance of the PTI's and
NAPE is funded by the MOE and carried out under the direction of the MOE-FD.
Regular preventive programs are however not undertaken and maintenance is
carried out on an ad-hoc and priority basis only. The MOE-PD research
component includes a comprehensive study on the maintenance of primary schools
in Bangladesh and is expected to propose recommendations for appropriate
remedies for maintenance standards, minimum levels of financing and possible
funding sources.
D. Procurement
3.31      The construction program under the project consists principally of a
large number of small low unit cost schools dispersed throughout the entire
country and to be built over a period of five years. Bangladesh has the
capacity to undertake these works and it is considered most unlikely that
foreign firms would be interested in competing, therefore Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the Association would be
followed for the construction program (US$99.1 million including
contingencies). LCB procedures were used in the Second Primary Education
Project, but supervisory and monitoring procedures will be strengthened
(paras. 3.21 and 3.25). Rural primary school contracts will be awarded by the
Upazila authorities under gazetted regulations. Urban primary school
contracts will be awarded by the MOE-FD on the besis of bid-award procedures
developed under the ongoing Second Primary Education Project. For the low-
cost primary schools and satellite schools components (paras. 2.07 and 2.11)
where agreements are expected to be reached with communities on mobilization
for construction (US$26.0 million) procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association will be developed and tested in a pilot program (para. 3.25). It
is expected that, where contracts are awarded for construction and materials
under such agreements, approved LCB procedures will be followed under the
authority of the upazilas.
3.32      Furniture for primary schools (US$10.0 million) will follow designs
recently developed by the MOE-PD under Credit 1574-BD. For rural schools,
furniture will be procured by the individual upazilas on the basis of LCB in
accordance with upazila regulations and their respective construction
programs. For urban schools and PTIs, furniture will be procured by the MOE-
PD on the basis of LCB procedures developed under the ongoing Second Primary
Education Project. Equipment, vehicles (US$3.5 million) and paper for
textbooks (US$13.0 million) will be grouped to the extent possible into bid
packages that would encourage competition and facilitate bulk procurement.
Packages estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more will be awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA



- 32 -
guidelines. In bid-comparison, goods ssuufactured domestically will be
allowed a preferential margin oi 152 of the c.1.f. costs of competing imports
or the actual customs duties.  hichever ts lower. Contracts for printing of
primary school textbooks (US$23.6 million total) will be awarded annually to
various local printing companies according to a schedule acceptable to iDA.
Contractors will be selected by NCTS on the basis of at least three
competitive price quotations from qualified printing firm.  Distribution of
textbooks (US$3.3 million) will be carried out by the Directorate of Primary
Education. Other books and journals will be procured from distributors or
book jobbers on the basis of the competitive price quotations when feasible.
3.33      Fellowships and technical assistance will be provided In accordance
with the guidelines of the various cofinancing agencies.  Al IDAICIDA and
DGIS fInanced consultants will be selected In accordance with IDA guidelines
for the use of consultants .lLscellaneous locally procured equipment and
materials In packages not exceeding US$30,000 In value up to an aggregate of
US$1.0 million will be purchased on the basis of three price quotations or
through existing government contracts for bulk procuremeat. Standarized
documents will be developed for Local Competitive Bidding for rural schools,
urban schools, PTI's, furniture and equipment under the project. During
negotiations government confirmed that draft documents will be submitted to
IDA for approval before any bidding is undertaken on the respective components
(para. 5.01). All civil works furniture and goods contracts over US$200,000
will be reviewed by IDA prior to award. This will cover about 202 by value of
contracts under IDA's purview.
TDL 8.8: Pressa  ah
1. Civil worm                       -                 81.6      -      10.7
(734)                      (75.1
Po Ial   .                                            0.4      .a      a.0
(0.9) y  (0.9)
8. furnIture                        *       10.0       8.1      -      1l.1
.(J.)                      (7.7)
4. =- 1101. Vehicles                1.5      0.5       8.7      .       5.0
go" atel                         (1.8)    (0.1)     (1.0)            (2.-)
S. lose Od Jornls                  18.0     is.* I    26.4      8.8     68.8
(12.0)   (20.2)             (2.8)   (4)
S. technIcl  el                     *        -         4.1      2.0     6.9
VWd Vollousblps
Lol Talal                          -        -         2.2     22.8    24.5
(6-0)   (5.0)
5. Inereeent*l Staff                .        -         l8.5    *.9    51.5
selaries                                                    (27.7)  (27.)
S. Projec Opentole aod              -        -         1.1      5.5    0.5
Co.osn.blo Materials                                         (2.6)   (2.6)
Total                             11.0    184.2      76.8     64.7   810.2
(18.6)  (107.0)     .       (88.6)  (159.8)
Nete. Figre in pereethele are the r__peciv. assabt fl_asoi by IDA.
Ildm MS prec1dure for MS-f Inanoew compole_s.
Pon    Io to Local .v.ruetE  loure". to sew 1weis rual soboele cootreoale.
Prhenz gof textboo toe W    _  lsl
i   le 1boS14 of tsitbo.&e by SldetorAte Of PrImasy Iduabteo.



- 33 -
3.34      There is an important technical assistance program within the
project. The focus of the program is to provide sufficient training (through
the provision of expert services and fellowships) to make the eight operating
units responsible for the project fully functional in their expanded roles.
The Government has begun to place sufficient well educated professionals in
the operating units. What has been lacking has been up-to-date training in
the specific tasks these professionals are now being asked to perform. The
Second Primary Education Project has demonstrated how effective technical
assistance can be (outstanding examples are in the curriculum development and
MIS areas) when units are reasonably well staffed with sufficient
professionals with good educational foundations. Annex 15 provides details of
the technical assistance. Terms of reference for the specialist and the
fellowships have been reviewed with the Government and appear in the working
papers.
3.35      In order to coordinate the provision of technical assistance, UNDP
has agreed to name a Technical Assistance Coordinator from among their long-
term consultants to assist the Project Coordinator plan for and implement the
technical assistance program.
E. Disbursement
3.36      The proposed project will be disbursed over a period of about five
years. This differs from the sectoral disbursement profile from the region
(see Annex 16). The main reason for departing from the profile is that the
proposed project will finance a time slice of selected portions of the
sector's development plan for the Fourth Five-Year Plan period, and these have
been conservatively estimated.
3.37      The proposed credit will finance about 542 of the total project
costs, net of customs duties and taxes, and will be disbursed at the following
percentagess (a) 902 of the cost of civil works except for the low cost rural
primary schools and materials for satellite schools at 1002; (b) 90? of
professional fees; (c) for equipment, furniture and vehicles, and books and
journals (including textbooks), 100? of foreign expenditures and local
expenditures ex factory, and 70? of expenditure for locally procured items;
(d) 95s of local training costs; and (e) 90Z of the PCU staff salaries.
Operation and maintenance costs will be reimbursed on a declining basis (1002
for FY91, 75? for PY92, 50? for FY93 and 25? for FY94. Incremental staff
salaries will be disbursed at the following rates: 100? for FY91, 87.5? for
FY92, 75Z for FY93, 62.5? for FY94, and 50X for FY95. The Closing Date for
the project will be December 31, 1995.
3.38      Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent will be fully documented. Disbursements below that
level will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures, to be kept
available for examination by Bank missions. To facilitate timely project
implementation the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a Special Account to
which the Association would make an initial deposit, equivalent to about
US$11.0 million, representing IDA's share of about four month's estimated
average expenditure during the project disbursement period. The Special
Account will be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account falls below an amount equal to 502 or less of the initial amount of



- 34 -
the Special Account. Withdrawal applications will be supported by appropriate
documentation.
Accounts and AuditinR
3.39      The Government will maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. At negotiations the GOB provided assurances thatt
(a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year will be prepared
and audited by the Directorate of Audits--Foreign Aided Projects or by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and (b) certified copies
of the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year,
together with the auditor's report and auditor's opinions on Statements of
Expenditure, will be furnished to the Association as soon as possible, but not
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Environment
3.40      The construction of schools will have little adverse effect upon the
environment. The construction and repair of latrines in the schools and the
increased emphasis given to health and environmental issues in the curricula
and textbooks should have a positive effect (para. 2.43).
Women in Development
3.41      The project will continue and strengthen the positive steps taken in
the Second Primary Education Project for the advancement of women in the
development of the economy and society of Bangladesh. The majority of the
activities are designed to increase the educational opportunities for girls.
These include a number of pilot programs which will be carefully evaluated,
including: (a) the provision of Satellite Schools to bring primary school
classes closer to the homes of young girls, making it more likely they would
attend (para. 2.11); (b) the financing of two non-formal primary education
programs to reach very poor girls unable to attend formal primary schooling
(para. 2.16); and, (c) experiments designed to make the formal Government
primary schools more attractive to girls (para. 2.17). Of a less experimental
nature are the pilot-tested programs proven to have significant effect upon
female enrollment and retention such ass (a) the hiring of more female
teachers (para. 2.24); and (b) the continuation of the female scholarship
program for secondary school girls begun by USAID (para. 2.19). In addition
to the activities designed to increase access, several of the project
activities have been designed to increase the physical and social well being
of girls, such as: (a) removing sexist language from textbooks and including
positive role models for girls (para. 2.33); (b) Increasing the adequacy of
physical facilities for females in the PTIs (para. 2.23); (c) including
population, health and nutrition information in schooling (para. 2.43); and
(d) training teachers to be more aware of gender-related issues in the
classroom (para. 2.25). Annex 17 contains more details of the programs.



- 35 -
IV. BENEPITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01      Primary school enrollment will Increase by about 4U per anmum and
now methods to attract and retain the very poor and girls will be established.
The cost of primary school classrooms will be reduced.  The cost per primary
graduate will be reduced due to fewer dropouts and repeaters and more
efficient deployment of teachers. The relevance of primary schooling wivl
grow due to Increased classroom application of literacy and numeracy skills to
real-life lssues facing students. Programs to improve secondary school
quality and efficiency will begin, but tangible benefits in terms of
increased pupil achievement and reduced costs per graduate would not occur
during the project perlod.
S. Risks
4.02      Possible rlsks include continued inefficient deployment of teachers
and poor management of classroom construction. Addltionally, the 00G may find
it difficult to continue to resist interest group pressure to increase
subventions for private secondary school and college teachers. To minimize
these rlsks the project incorporates a teacher deployment policy of one
teacher per classroom and double shifts, and improves promotional
opportunLties for primary school teachers to serve as a ould pro ouo for
ncreagsing theLr teaching load. The project will increase construction and
maintenance supervlsory capacity. An additional supervisory and evaluation
capacity, fimnaced outsLde of the project by DGIS and SIDA, provides for
andom field evaluations of all project inputs. Joint annual HOEIIDA reviews
of budgetary allocations to primary education provide a forum for ensuring
adequage funding of the primary education sub-sector.



- 36 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations the following agreements were reachedt
(a) The MOE will improve its financial planning capacity and
annually prepare and review with IDA, in advance of its
budgetary requests, the proposed sectoral budget (para. 1.09);
(b) A capacity will be established in the NCTB by December 31,
1990, to address women in development issues (para. 2.33) and
an administrator with qualifications acceptable to IDA will be
appointed for the satellite schools pilot programs at Deputy
Director level (para. 2.12);
(c) M0E will update, in consultation with the Association,
procedures governing the promotion of primary school teachers,
to include credit for in-service training by June 30, 1991
(para. 2.28);
sd) The Government's proposed implementation schedule for the
redeployment of primary school teachers by 1995 will be on the
basis of one teacher per classroom (paras. 2.34 and 3.16);
se) The MOE will develop (on the basis of the NCTB textbook reuse
pilot study) its policy recommendations for possible reuse of
selected textbooks and other cost-saving measures by Juae 30,
1993 (para. 2.39);
(f) An approved project management scheme will include: (i) the
membership and terms of reference of all committees; (ii) the
staffing, terms of reference and equipment needed for the
Project Coordinating Unit; and (c) the approval and finance
mechanisms for project activities. DPE and NCTB vacancies will
be filled by May 1, 1990 (para. 3.19);
(g) At the end of each fiscal year the Project Coordinating Unit
will certify that expenditures incurred against the project by
each upazila have been verified, prior to the release of
further project funds to the respective upazilas (para. 3.23);
(h) A mid-term review of the Low-Cost Schools Program will be
carried out by consultants acceptable to the Association (para.
3.25);
(i) For the pilot program, a detailed implementation plan
acceptable to IDA will be submitted and
Architectural/Engineering consultants for monitoring and
evaluation will be selected on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.25);
(j) Completion of the low-cost schools pilot program will be
undertaken to InA's satisfaction, and an implementation plan
for the remainder of this component will be developed, together
with the appointment of consultants acceptable to IDA who will



- 37 -
monitor implementation and prepare annual reports of progress
(para. 3.25)t
(k) By April 30 of the fiscal year prior to construction a list of
PTIs, design proposals, cost estimates and bidding documents
will be available for IDA review (para. 3.27);
(1) Design proposals, cost estimates and draft bidding documents
will be provided for the 14 PTIs and NAPE in the 1991 work
program by May 1, 1990 (para. 3.27);
(m) By April 30 of the fiscal year prior to construction, the
formalities relating to school placement will have been
completed (para. 3.29); and
(n) Before bidding, standardized documentc will be developed for
Local Competitive Bidding under the project (para. 3.33).
5.02           The following are Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The Borrower shall have amended its Recruitment Rules 'or
Primary School Teachers to include a recruitment _atio of
female teachers to male teachers of 60:40 (para. 2.24);
(b) All the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Netherlands Grant Agreement and the Swedish Grant Agreement,
other than the conditions relating to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled (para. 3.11);
(c) The Project Coordination Unit shall have been established and
staffed (para. 3.19); and
Cd) The Borrower shall have approved the Project Proformas for the
carrying out of the Project (para. 3.19).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project would be suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDR 120.6 million (US$159.3 million equivalent) to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



-38-                            Annex I
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESE
¢ENERhL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education Sector and its Issues
The Institutional Structure
1.    The Ministry of Education (MOE) through its Directorates for Primary
Education (DPE), Secondary and Higher Education (DSUE) and Technical Education
(DTE) is responsible for all levels of education below universities. in
addition, there are autonomous bodies or attached departments responsible for
specific aspects of the education systems the Bacgladesh Bureau of
Educational Information and Statistics (BAhNBEIS) for the collection,
compilation and dissemination of educational data; the National Curriculum and
Textbook Board (NCTB) for the evaluation and improvement of primary, secondary
and higher secondary curricula and the development and production of primary
school textbooks, as well as the approval of secondary school textbooks; the
National Institute of Educational Administration Extension and Research
(NIEAER) for in-service training of administrators, planners and school
supervisors and for conducting educational research; the Bangladesh
Educatinal Equipment Board (BEEN) for designing, testing, evaluating and
manufacturiug educational equipment; and the Bangladesh Institute of Distance
Education (BIDE) for preparing and offering distance education programs. The
National Academy for Primary Education (NAPS) is responsible for coordinating
pre-service and in-service training of instructors and superintendents of the
of Primary Teaching Training Institutes (PTIs) and primary school headteachers
and teachers. Faculty are concerned with the developmeat of research -.to
primary education. NAPE also houses *training-the-trainer* courses for
District Primary Education Officers (DPEOs)and Upazila Education Officers
(UOs), as well as courses for senior management in the administration of the
primary system. The four Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education
independently conduct the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher School
Certificate (HSC) Examinations In their own regions and the autonomous
Bangladesh Madrasah Education Board (BMEB) examines at levels equivalent to
SSC, USC, Bachelors Degree and Masters Degree.
Primary Education
2.   In 1987, the education system of Bangladesh comprised a total of 54,935
government and non-government primary, secondary and college institutions,
offering schooling for some or all of grades I through XII. Of the existing
44,205 primary schools, providing approximately 129,000 classroom units,
37,341 were government and 6,864 or 15.5Z were non-government. Of these
latter 6,864 schools, many are government-recognized, and are managed by
private individuals or non-governmental organizations (tGOs). Primary
education covers Grades I to V and is intended for children aged 6-10 years.
In practice, primary school enrollment includes a stbetantial proportion of
under- and over-age pupils. In 1987, there were 11,075,500 children enrolled
in primary school, of whom 4,830,000 or 43.611 were female. This was



- 39 -                          Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
estimated to be a total enrollment ratio of approximatelw 61S of the primary
age cohort, 71.5Z of boys and 49.81 of girls. The total stock of primary
teachers in 1987 was 186,600, 33,570 or 19Z of vhom were female. The national
staffsstudent ratio was approximately 50sl. 157,500 teachers taught in
government primary schools and 28,810 or 15.4S in non-government primary
schools. Of the teachers in non-government primary schools, 4,660 or 16.2?
were female. On the basis of a survey of some 34 districts, conducted by the
DPE, the annual attrition rate for teachers from government schools for the
academic year 198718, was calculated to be 3,272 or just over 2S per annum.
In the religious sector, primary education was also offered in 14,169 Ibtedaye
Madrasah schools, covering Classes I to V, for a total of 1,533,800 students,
of whom 161,000 or 10.5? were female.
3.    The primarv school curriculum is overloaded, highly theoretical, mostly
irrelevant to th       lives of its pupils and poorly designed in terms of its
scope, sequence and lkvel of vocabulary for each grade. Because of its
academic orientation, the curriculum is equated with the textbook and, for
classroom dissemination, teachers have translated the curriculum into a set of
facts to be memorized. Teaching methods follow a predominantly rote method.
There has been little attempt to introduce higher order learning related to
problem solving and creativity or to expose pupils to competencies which will
encourage self-learning outside the classroom.
1,    Contact time is also very low in comparison with other developing
ountries. The maximum possible contact time, assuming full attendance of
both student and teacher, for the baby class, and Classes I and II is 472
hours per annum, and for Classes III, IV and V, it is in the region of 708
hours per annum. With five subjects in the first group of Classes and eight
in the second, this works out at less than one hundred hours per subject per
year, and, across the full five years of primary education, approximately
2,968 hours.
5.    In the face of these problems, GOB has made curriculum reform one of the
main themes in its UPS plans. Through the current Curriculum Renewal Exercise
an *Essential Learning Continuum" (ELC) has been aimed at the achievement of
competencies which pupils should acquire by the end of the primary school
cycle. Curriculum reform activities, systematically planned and executed,
include: (i) development of appropriate teaching methods, addressing mastery
learning techniques; (ii) continuous pupil assessment (CPA)to identify
learning difficulties and allow for remediation; (iii) preparation and
revision of supporting instructional materials including teachers' guides,
textbooks, supplementary reading materials and teaching aids; and (iv)
development of in-service training programs for teachers and supervisors to
ensure understanding and effective delivery of the curriculum. According to
the projections most materials and activities for Classes I and II will be
completed by 1990, ready for institutionalization throughout the system. As
one of the measures for improving efficiency in the primary school system, the
Government has introduced a liberal promotion policy for Classes I and II. In
this context the present curriculum reform program with its emphasis on
continuous pupil assessment and remediation, can provide appropriate support
to ensure learning of essential competencies even with automatic promotion
beyond Class TT.



- 40 -                          Annex I
Page 3 of 7
6.    Textbooks occupy a central place in the teachingilearning activities in
the classroom. To underscore the value it places on textbooks as an incentive
both to encourage enrollment and to Improve school achievements, the
Goverumsnt introduced a textbook policy in 1982 allowing for books to be
distributed free of charge to all primary school children. The costs to
support this policy have more than tripled between 1983 and 1987 and the
provision of free paper for this purpose by UNICEF is to cease in 1992. The
Government is, therefore, considering alternatives, including the introduction
of a re-use policy, for implementing the textbook program at reduced costs.
7.    The textbook program is also faced with several other problems.  The
content of the books does not reflect the demands of the curriculum or the
learning needs of the children. The standards of manufacture are low. Both
the Curriculum and the Textbook Wings of the NCTB, an autonomous agency
responsible for textbook development and reproduction, are inappropriately
staffed in terms of numbers of staff and type of qualification and expertise,
and the organization is inadequately equipped for the curriculum renewal in
which it is currently involved. Additionally, the recent policy decision to
introduce English in all primary grades has accentuated the need for the
improvement of production and utilization of textbooks and the investigation
of measures for greater cost-effectiveness.
8.    Supervision of primary schools has been decentralized to the District
Primary Education Officers (DPEOs), the Upazila Officers (UEOs) and Assistant
Upazila Education Officers (AUEOs). Insufficient training in supervisory and
managerial functions is a major problem, which is only slowly being addressed
by NIEAER, NAPE and the PTIs. Many AUEOs are ineffective because they are
inadequately supervised and trained and undermotivated. Cluster training
pamphlets are now out-of-date and are unrelated either to the teacher guide
books or the revised curriculum. AUZOs also lack the transport to be able to
visit their schools more regularly. They are, in any case, scheduled to spend
only an hour or so in each school each month and little attention is given,
therefore, to observing and assisting the teacher in improving his or her
pedagogical skills. Cluster training has thus become ineffective, even when
delivered as frequently as required.
10.   There were estimated to be approximately 129,000 classrooms in the
primary system in 1987. School construction has been concentrated on the
replacement of existing accommodation units with the result that few
additional places have been created to meet the increase in enrollment.
Latrine and washing facilities for girls are either non-existent or
inappropriate and this must act as a deterrent to their attendance. Classroom
furniture is insufficient in both quality and quantity, particularly in the
old community-built schools. The problems are compounded by the adverse
effects of natural calamities, such as the recent flood, following which many
buildings required rehabilitation or reconstruction.
Secondary Education
11.   The Directorate of Secon4ary and Higher Education is responsible to the
Ministry of Education for the administration and development of the secondary
system. It currently has an extremely wide brief and responsibilities and



- 41 -                          Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
there is pressure to form a separate directorate for higher education.
Secondary education covers Grades VI to XI1, comprising junior secondary
(Grades VI to VIII), high school (Grades IX and X), and intermediate colleges
(Grades XI and At). There are two national examinations: the Secondary
School Certificate (8SC) taken at the end of Grade X and the Higher School
Certificate (tB0 examination taken at the end of Grade XII, conducted by one
of the four Divisional Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education.
Secondary graduates may enter Primary Teacher Institutes (PTIs) colleges and
universities or the job market. The HSC is. however, the inAmum requirement
for admission to degree programs. The SSC and RSC examinations are
decentralized, with four regional boards (Boards of Intermediate and Secondary
Education) In the four Divisions of Rajehahi. Shulna, Chittagong and Dhaka
each settitg its own papers and doing its own marking and moderation. Test
papers follow a format, set many years ago, and little attention has been paid
to techniques of criterion and norm referenced methods of assessment developed
in many different parts of the world over the past 30 years. Other
shortcomings In the preparation of test papers include: (i) over-emphasis on
factual recall at both SSC and USC levels, (ii) too much choice within
questions or of questLons, (Wi) over-reliance on essay-type questLons, (iv)
four separate, uncoordinated sets of examinations, markers and standards with
ittle overall comparabliLty of standards, and thus, consequently low valLdity
and relLability. Llttle currlculum reform has taken place for many years and
the SSC and USC largely determine what is taught in Grades IX to XII. The
focus In the classroom on preparing for the SSC and 8SC examinations, has
inevLtably had a restrlctlve influence on teaching sLnce teachers concentrate
on what will help thelr candldates best in the examinations. Rote-learning
thus dominates the teaching, and testing and skill and attitude development
are neglected.
12. In 1987, there were 10,716 secondary schools of whlch 7,738 or 72.2S
were non-goverment, and 1.668 or approximately 15.6S were single-sex girls
schools. Of the glrls schools, 1,032 or roughly 612 were non-government. In
the total secondary school student populatLon of 3,502,000, some 1,069,000 or
30.5X were female. Of all secondary schools, 7,738 or 72.2t were non-
government, and these were attended by 2,758,000 students, or 78.8S of the
total. In the same year, there were 130,550 teachers in secondary schools, of
whom 105,030 or 80.45? taught in private secondary schools. Of the total
stock of secondary teachers, 13,110 or 10? were female. Of the secndary
teachers in private secondary schools, 9,250 or 8.86 were female. The
Government contrlbuted 702 of the staff salaries of recognized prlvate
schools. In the rellglous sector, 3,631 Dakhil Madrasah offered provision of
Classes VI to x to 516,000 students, of whom 54,200 or 10.5Z were female.
Enrollment ratios were calculated to be 24.4Z for Classes VI to X, comprising
34S of boys In the age cohort and 14.5S of girls. Upper secondary education
(Classes XI and XII) was also offered in intermediate colleges, wLth a total
enrollment of 118,500 students, of whom 25,400 or 21.41S were female, as well
as in 736 Alim Madrasah for a total of 736,000 puplls, of whom 10,400 or 6.84?
were female.
13. There are well over 70,000 untrained secondary school teachers, and
thelr prcportLon In the stock of teachers is increasing. The output of 3,500
teachers annually from the Teacher TraLLng Colleges (TTCs) is inadequate to
meet the demand for traiLed teachers. Many TTC graduates lack competence in



- 42 -                          Anner     1
Page 5 of 7
the subjects they will teach, because they have not studied these subjects in
their first degree, and the B.Ed program In the TTCs offers mainly pedagogical
training. Sinc* 1985, a distance version of the B.Ed has been offered by the
Bangladesh Institute of Distance Education (BIDE), with a 70s30 mix of
correspondence and media delivery, as well as follow-up social phases twice a
month at the TTCs and additional summer school tuition. A feasibility study
for the establishment of an open university has also been carried out, vith a
view to its use for the delivery of teacher education.
14.   Secondary students purchase textbooks from local booksellers.  This
commercial venture originates in the NCTB, which is responsible for setting
the price of each book, once the manuscript has been written (by authors
employed for that purpose by NCTB). NCTB does not control the printing
process, the number of books ultimately printed and distributed or the price
charged to the local bookseller. The supply of secondary school books is
inadequate, because there appears to be inadequate collaboration between NCTB
and the private printing firms in determining the quantity of books needed.
Teacher Training
15. Primary School Teacher Training is conducted in 53 Primary Teacher
Institutes (PTIs), which train teachers after they have been appointed to a
position in a specific upazila by the DPE. The curriculum of the PTIs is
fragmented, overloaded and highly theoretical. It is organized on the basis
of an out-of-date view of elucational knowledge and is highly academic.
Examinations are exclusively written and insufficient attention is given to
the pedagogical and practical aspects of teacher training. The curriculum
remains uninfluenced by the techniques pioneered by the ELC and CPA primary
curriculum. This has resulted in trained teachers being unprepared for the
introduction of the newer methods, not being professionally coamitted,
imaginative and motivated to tackle the problems of poorly equipped primary
schools, multi-level class groups and in some districts, large classes, and
unable to mobilize and encourage community involvement in the schools.
16.   The 53 Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTIs) Live a potential
output capacity of approriamtely 10,300 per year, but they are under-utilized
and lack the minimum educational facilities for their purpose. Residential
and other facilities for women students are particularly inadequate and, in
some cases, non-existent. Morale is low, the institutions are regarded as of
low status. Faculty are frequently rotated to other posts and turnover is
high. A large majority of the teacher-training staff has no experience of
primary school teaching. The training programs do not demand problem-solving
and Independent inquiry, both of which are essential to the training of
primary school teachers who must evoke these skills in their students. The
teaching timetable is poorly organized and trainees are taught in large groups
of 75 to 100 in all subject areas. P'2Is are a potentially major fulcrum for
reform In the primary system. They are increasingly expected to provide in-
service education for headteachers and AUEOs and to be involved In the
dissemination of the new curriculum, as well as the new Higher Certificate in
Education Course, roles for which they are ill-prepared and ill-equipped.



-43 -                          Anes I
Page 6 of 7
17. The National Academy for Primary Education (RAPE), is the lead
institution in primary teaching training. It has not been effective because
its staff is deficient in terms of numbers and the appropriate experience and
qualifications. A continuity problem also stems from the frequent rotation of
Government staff, and those trained under the First Primary Education Project
were transferred to various Government bodies before they could pass on their
skills to their successors. Its audio-visual, library, teaching and
accommodaticn facilities are also inadequate to its role.
18.   The school-based (cluster) in-service teacher training program initiated
in 1983 is conceptually sound but there are many gaps and weaknesses to be
addressed. The program is not integrated into a career path for teachers and
hence its potential to stimulate commitment and develop a strong sense of
professionalism among teachers has been weakened. It is inadequately planned,
delivered and monitored and many AUEOs are insufficiently trained and
supervised to carry out their task efficiently and regularly.
19.   The present secondary training facilities cannot satisfy the demand for
trained secondary school tenchers either qualitatively or In terms of
quantity. In 1987, there were ten TTCs, offering training to 3,600 secondary
teachers, 1,000 (28.7X) of whom, were female. The annual output of the
Teacher training Colleges (TTCs) is thus approximately 50X of the annual
attrition from the stock of secondary teachers. The problem is aggravated by
the increased social demand for secondary education stimulated by improved
primary education and economic development. In 1985, GOB attempted to address
this problem by introducing a three-year distance B.Ed degree program. In
principle, the program is well designed and cost-effective. It requires
strengthening, however, vith respect to teaching materials, program content,
teaching practice, training in pedagogical skills and examinations, in order
to establish parity with the pre-service training program. The program has
been favorably evaluated and this should provide the basis for its upgrading,
improvement and expansion. The re-training of teacher educators and
recruitment of more staff with good sc :ondary teaching experience, however,
would be essential first steps.
Educational Data Collection and Data Management
20. The collection and management of educational data in Bangladesh is
neither complete, reliable nor efficient. Several different agencies collect
sometimes overlapping data. Verification of data is extremely difficult and
revisions appear to be made at different levels without factual
substantiation. Analysis in a purposeful manner useful to decision-makers is
rare; and those who generate, collect, compile and verify data at each level
of the system rarely receive the results of their efforts to see the
application and value of the data. All data collection, statistical,
academic, personal, physical or financial, is generated manually and a series
of overlapping units collects and collates data. In primary educations's MIS
system some attention has been given to creating a logical and relatively
simple system approach, but even in this MIS, the system's purposes and
procedures need to be explained carefully to those generating and verifying
the data. Thus, training at all levels is essential as well as a
reorganization of the various units into one comprehensive and coordinated
MIS.



- 44 -                        Annex 
Page 7 of 7
21.    The Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics
(BANBEIS) has no field staff and thus relies on data collected by the
dl.rectorates or units, such as the Evaluation and Monitoring Unit of the DPE
or forwarded directly by institutions and organizations. BANBEIS is not
responsible for the reliability or validity of its data which raises questions
about the credibility of the statistics it generates. In addition to
compiling education statistics,  ANBZIES is burdened with the details of
generating payroll traasfers for about 107,000 teachers in the DSEE. In
consequence, not only are the reliability ad validity of data suspect, but
decision-making, policy formulation and planniag functions are also adversely
affected.
Tertiary Education
22. There were seven university-level institutions in Bangladesh in 1987,
with a combined student population of 46,300, of whom 8,600 (18.65S) were
female. The GOB spent approximately 8.9Z of the total education sector
expenditure on university education at an approxiamte unit cost of Taka
17,289. All university education comes under the University Grants Coumission
which was established in 1973 and has the responsibility of disbursing the
funds allocated by government for the universities, as well as additional
planning, advisory and statistical collection and collation responsibilities.
University campuses have been subject to considerable disruption over the past
few years and the duration of a completed first degree course has risen to an
average of approximately seven years. The majority of students is registered
for liberal arts and other non-science subjects.
23.   In addition to the universities, there are 326 non-university tertiary
institutions, including 61 medical Institutes, 18 polytechnic institutes, 17
commercial institutes, 21 agricultural institutes and 22 law colleges. Total
enrollment in that sector was 166,600 in 1987. Although no complete
statistics of the proportion of female students in the sector are available,
the proportions ranged from 3.38S in the polytechnic institutes to 23.23X in
the vocational Institutes.



-45-                                        Annex 2
A EDUCATION PROEACT
Table 1: F_65 Edueafboln Saditt
iMia.        I                    U S       Total    X
Primary Education            841.7         41X      1CO.5      48X       492.2    41X
Secondry & Higher            865.7         44X      55.1       17X       420.8    871
Technical                     24.6          8x       54.7      17X        79.8      71
University                    60.6         105       87.2      12X       117.6    l01
Other S/                      20.2          21       19.2       ox        89.4      85
TO"a1                         32.6        105      816.7      1005      1149.5   1005
j includs Secretariat, other servies, grants In Oid, tc.
SourceMlangladeah: Pubilc Expeniture. Review - Public Rsoure- Managmnt During the Fourth
Fve-year Plan, FYOl-9S', March 18, 195, World Bank.
Table 23 ProJct-ed eSndturea to Acive Univesl Primary Education
(Crre ,Talksconstant FatY  prieo")
Scenario 2: Univesal Primry                           FY8*        FY90        FY08       FY2000
Education                                  Budg-et
a. Increaae pprimry enrollment   Primary               421         540          52 
rate to 90X by y"e  2000      secongs  A/           859         890         590          168
b. Radu etudnt wastw  rates  A     of FY68             100X       1101        172          2201
at primry level by one-half
c. Selective, cot increse. at
pimary levl for quality                            Averame Annual Increase * 7.11
d. Maintain current tranottion
rat froe primry to secondary
levls.
g/ Doe not include capItal exenditurs.
Sources 30



-                     Am6  3
Page l of 2
I~ ~~R  *                                  I  .l  
w               833 a1.t   
i         RI   .,. I               I
~~~ I
N   I    l            Ic 1 !
~S    ,. r .. *@
4t . 
t:           ~~~tJ



- 47 -
|a                        N                          Page2 of 2
RI   a..                      S 
i | 8Xg                        3.! 
t~         83                          1    
Ii~       | 31        i. J              .£



- 48 -                              Annos 4
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Donor Financing of Education Sector
In the primary subsector, UNICEP, a major donor with commitments over
US$35 million during 1972-1988, has supported the UPE program through the
strengthening of curriculum, development of teachlig-learning materials and
teacher skills improvement, as well as strengthening of management and
supervision capabllities at all levels. It has also provided annually an
average US$2 million of paper for textbook production and assisted In
distribution. However, it plans to phase out paper financing after 1992.
UNDP has also contributed to the UPE effort by providing tecbnical assistance.
SIDA, long active in vocational and technical education In Bangladesh, has
more recently participated in the Second Primary Education Project (Credit
1574-BD) through the provision of books and educational materials. NORAD has
in 1987 provided US$7.0 million towards paper provision through UNICEF.
Whilst it has provided only US$800,000 in 1989 towards this same end, it has
estimated its commitment level between 1990-92 at US$37 million. With regard
to the secondary subsector, ADB has provided assistance for three projects
totalling US$56.5 million, which focus on educational equipment development,
skills training in community schools, and improving the quality of science
education. UNDP also has assisted in the secondary science project through
provision of technical assistance. ODA has mainly financed technical
assistance in both secondary and technical education. Regarding non-formal
education, donor support has thus far been limited to mainly small scale NGO
projects. However, with the development of the National Literacy Program,
together with the UNDP-sponsored Mass Education through Small Local
Organizations (METSLO), the situation is changing. UNICEF for its part has
supported the Mass Education Program and mosque-based education activities.
its planned interventions during the next five years focussed on assistance
through the National Literacy Program, the development of Makhtabs and
community-based non-formal learning activities, and the promotion of early
childhood education. DhNIDA's ongoing mass education program in Noakhali
provides functional literacy, numeracy and other skills to children and
adults. SIDA and NORAD have supported a literacy program in rural
development.
* x, s~~~~~~~



- 49 -
Annex 5
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selection Criteria for NGO Grant Programs
I. The Non-Formal Primary Education Programs
A.  For Experienced NGOs
Who eay Ag2jy:    Applicants for this program must be experienced
NGOs who have successfully implemented program of non-formal
primary education for unserved primary school age children.
Criteria for awarding the contracts: Awards in this category
would be made to a maximum of three NGOs. Applicant NGOs will be
judged by the following criteria: (a) Past success in educating
the very poor and especially girls by means of non-formal primary
education. (Success would be defined by the degree of retention
from grade to grade, the capacity to attract and retain girls, the
degree to which graduates from the NFPE program enter the formal
school system, and the total number of students per year who
complete the NFPE program.) 70% , (b) The quality of the
management of the proposed program, including monitoring and
supervision (10%), (c) The strength of the teacher training
program (10%), and (d) the strength of the community involvement
program (10%).
B. For less experienced or new NGOs or community groups.
Who mayX a221:    Applicants are encouraged from existing or newly
formed NGOs and/or community groups wishing to develop NFPE
programs.
Criteria for awarding the Contracts:   Applicants will be judged
by: the strength of their proposed management including monitoring
and supervision (20%); The strength of the proposed teacher
training program (20%); the degree to which community members will
be involved in the program (20%); and the degree to which the
program is judged to serve the target group of the very poor and
especially girls (40%).
II. The Government School Attractiveness Program
Who may apply: Applicants are encouraged from existing or newly
formed NGOs and/or community groups.
Criteria for awarding contracts: The strength of the proposed
management of the program including supervision and monitoring
(20%); the degree to which community members will be involvo4 in
the scheme (20%); the likelihood that the program could be
replicable in other high need areas (20%); and the degree to which
the program would assist the target population of the very poor
and especially girls (40%).



- 50 -                ~~~~Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
BUNGLADESI
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Intearation of Curriculum and Textbook Development and Teacher Education
I. Obiectives
To a crucial extent, the success of the project will depend on the
Integration of its core elementss teacher education, curriculum development
and dissemination and the revision and introduction of new textbooks. If
properly carried out, the results would be:
(a) More efficient delivery of a relevant and updated curriculum, by
modern methods and with modern materials;
(b) More effective learning by primary students;
'c) More cost-effective deployment of teachers;
(d) Increased school attractiveness to parents and students;
(e) Continued integration of curriculum, textbooks and teachereducation
in a continuous process of review and refom; and
(f) Heightened primary teacher professionalism and status.
D. Scope
The Intention of integration in this project is to ensure that teachers
are involved In curriculum and textbook development and that the major focus
of teacher education, both initial and in-service, is on the delivery of the
revised curriculum supported by appropriate textbooks. Checks and balances
have been built into the project to ensure maximum integration by the GOB of
curriculum, textbooks and teacher education. Safeguards have been designed in
the form of proposed schedules, procedures, strategies and reviews, special
supervision, studies and monitoring arrangements, aimed at securing that
integration and achieving the above objectives.. Project activities in
Curriculum, Textbooks and Teacher Training have been planned and costed
lintegratively across the five years of the project (see Working Papers on
Teacher Education, Curriculum Development and Textbooks). Themes, such as
population education and women In development, have been incorporated into
textbook revision, curriculum development and teacher education. The
following is a brief sumary of the details in the working papers.
C. means
1. Curriculum development has been designed and costed as the responsibility
*  of the VTEI, but with tbe involvement of the i)irecvorate of Primary    '
Education, Training Division, (DPE, TD), NAPE and PTIs ins
(a) the formulation of new curricular objectives;
(b) the development, testing and piloting of new curricula;



- 51 -                           Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
(c) the professional support to teachers; and
(d) decisions about the pace and mode of dissemination.
2.   Similarly, curriculum dissemination is seen as the responsibility of the
Directorate of Primary Education, Training Division, but with the central
involvement of the NCTB in:
(a) the provision of materials and curricula;
(b) the training of master and core trainers;
(c) the monitoring of implementation;
(d) the design of cluster training materials pamphlets and audio-visual
materials.
3.  Equally, textbook development (and the development of supportive
materials for in-service education and teaching) involve the curriculum
developers, teachers and teacher educators in:
(a) the design of new textbooks and materials;
(b) the piloting of new textbooks and materials;
(c) the pace and mode of implementation; and
Cd) the design of necessary supportive material for teacher education,
Including written and audio-visual materials.
4. The refurbishment and upgrading of PTIs draws design imperatives from the
pedagogy and content of the Essential Learning Continuum and Continuous
Pupil Assessment, in their concern with interactive teaching, activity
methods, small group working, continuous assessment etc. Library
extensions and restocking will focus on 'good primary practice'.
5.   The revision of the Certificate in Education Course and the introduction
of the Higher Certificate in Education Course have been focussed on the
new ELC and CPA. The national steering committee (meeting in
participants' free time) includes representatives from NCTB, DPE (TD) and
NAPE as well as representatives of the donor community.
6. Action research into primary curriculum development is built into the
terns of reference of NAPE and its mission statement, and this is to be
strengthened by project interventions.
7.   A national cascade of training for all educational personnel in the
primary sector, not solely educators, and of orientation for voluntary
personnel, such as Chairpersons of PTAs and SMAs, as well as certain key
administrative personnel at District and upazila levels, will be tied to
the dissemination of the new curriculum and associated materials and
textbooks.
8.   The cluster training model will provide opportunities for teachers to
practice the use of new materials and textbooks as they are developed.
It will be reinforced biannually.



-52-                           Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
9.  All those responsible for initial and In-service teacher educatioA vill
be trained in curriculum development In the new primary curriculum, in
the same methods and materials as the teachers will be expected to
implement in schools.
10. Training videos of the teaching of the new curricula and methods of
assessment and the use of new textbooks and materials will be used to
initial and in-service train teachers and other educational personnel
in their use, with the same methods and assessment techniques, thus
providing opportunities for incorporation of the new approaches Into the
teaching repertoire of the teacher.
11. The NCTB, DPE, BIDE and BREE will co-ordinate together the development
and production of new support materials for the Introduction of the new
curricula.
12. Technical assistance for the Directorate of Primary Education, Training
Division, NAPE and the PTIs has been closely focussed on the primary
school curriculum and its delivery and away from an individual
credentialist approach.
13. Interchange has been proposed with similar integrative primary school
curriculum projects in other countries of the region such as Bhutan and
UNICEF, Thimphu has agreed to fund a first exchange, if government is
agreeable.
14. An incentive and reward scheme has been costed into the project for
schools and upazilas speedily adopting the new textbooks and curricula.
15. Detailed working papers contain the necessary steps and are phased in
six-monthly action plans.
16. The Project Co-ordinator will have a quarterly action plan to monitor and
guide the implementation of the three elements and their integration.
D.  Maior SteDs to be taken bh G00
1. Involve more teachers and teacher educators in curriculum development and
textbook preparation.
2.   Inject new curriculum materials and principles and textbooks into initial
and in-service teacher education.
3.   Train teachers and teacher educators in the new curriculum and curriculum
development.
4.   Involve teachers in sharing reeponsibility for monttoring the piloting of.
new curricula and textbooks.
5.   Encourage feedbacK from teachers and teacher educators to NCTB.



- 53 -                        Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
6.   Rejuvenate the cluster training model and link it more closely with
curriculum development.
7.   Redesign and distribute new cluster training pamphlets and teacher
guidebooks in concert with new curriculum and textbooks.
8.   Expand the NCTB and its present approach to curriculum development.
9.   Revise and rewrite the Certificate in Education course to be In hamony
with and motivated by the new WLC and CPA.
10. Retrain and reorient all professional and lay staff in the primary sector
towards the new primary curriculum.
11.  Establish or restock libraries in key centers, such as RAPE, PMIe, CTJ,
etc.. to reflect good primary practice and to include good models of
primary textbooks, schemes and story books.
12. Ensure cross-representation of curriculum, textbook and teacher educators
on each other's comittees.
13. Strengthen textbook interests on national steering comittees for the
revised Certificate and new Higher Certificate courses.
14. Upgrade status of teacher educators and PTle, so that they are confident
with the process of curriculum development and textbook preparation.
15. Expand workshop approach to curriculum development, Introduced by NCTS,
through incentive, redesign of facilities, provision of resources, etc.
16. Cross-reference plans and interlace costing for curriculum and textbook
development and dissemination vith those for initial and In-servlce
teacher education, as indicated in working papers.
17. Implement incentive scheme to motivate teachers to Implement new
curricula and textbooks and to improve their professionalism.
18. Link in-service training and further qualification, promotlon end school
based curriculum development, materials and textbook evaluation.
4  .- q    ,M            .                .-              ..                .



- 54 -
Amex 7
Page 1 of 2
IA^NGLADUSI
GENERAL EDUCANION PIMJEC?
TABLE 1  Teacher SuOpDY and Demand. MY1990-96
Goverament Primary Schools
(000)
Fiscal Year                   1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Projected Gross Enrollment   9161      9504    9962   10287   10727   11185   11620
Government Schools
Demand for Teachers-V          181      190     199    206       215     224     232
Supply2l                       164      166     168    170      172      174     176
mplied SSRV/                   55.8     57.3    59.3   60.5     62.4    64.3    66.0
1/  At current student staff ratio (SSR) of 50:1.
2I Based upon DPE estimates of recruitment during the Fourth Five-Year Plan
,Perod of approximately 2,000 per annum,.and assuming 6.000 recruited
during FY89-90.
3/  Teachers teach two sections a day so average class size is one-half ss8.



- 55 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Calculatins Teacher Costs in the Project
New Primary School Teachers
Project costs for new primary school teachers are estimated on the
basis of Tk 24,900 per annum for salary and benefits and a hiring rate of
2,000 per annum each year of the project.
Replacement Primary School Teachers
The number of replacement teachers is estimated to be 3,500 per year
during the life of the project.
Teacher Financing
The IDA will finance on a declining basis all net new female primary
school teachers added to the revenue budget during the project period. At the
end of each fiscal year the Government will certify a statement of expenditure
listing the number of femle replacement and new primary school teachers,
their name and date of appointment, and the reimbursement required.
IDA will finance 72X of the net new female teachers and ADB will
finance 28Z.
*                                              .



BANGLADESH - GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOKS SUSCOMPONENT
COSTS BREAKDoNI
(Taka '000)                                              (USS '000)
1990-91  1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-9f     TOTAL     1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95     TOTAL
______....______.___ ....... ....... _.._..  .....  ---  .......  ...... ___. .......  ....._.____ _.._____  _....
COSTS
Projected Paper Costs     179,091  184,635 190,311  195,888 201,498    951,423    5,427.0  5,595.0  5,767.0  5,936.0  6,106.0   28,831.0
DOstribution Costs         12,010  12,010  12.010  12,010  12,010      60,050      363.9    363.9    363.9    363.9    363.9    1,819.7
Production Costs          121,154 125,980 130,065 134,638 140,841    652,678    3,671.3  3,817.6  3,941.4  4,079.9  4,2S7.9   19,7M.1
Eqfpument Costs              495     330                                 825        15.0     10.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       25.0
Technical Assistance
(a) Foreitn Experts     16,236  15,048  10,296      792     792      43,164     492.0    456.0    312.0      24.0     24.0    1,308.0
(b) Int'l Fellowships    2,640   2,640   1,320   1,320                7,920      80.0      80.0     40.0     40.0      0.0       240.0
Cocal Training             1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1.320       6,600       40.0      40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0      200.0
Re-use Pilot Tests         6,138                                       6,138       186.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       186.0
TOTAL TEXTmOOK COSTS     339,084 341,963 345,322 345,968 3S6,461  1,728798   10,275.3 10,362.5  10,464.3  10,483.9  10,801.8   52,3.8
PAPER COSTS & FINANCING
Projected P*< er Costs    179,091  184,635 190,311  195,888 201,498    951,423    5.427.0  5,595.0  5,767.0  5,936.0  6,106.0   28,831.0
UNICEF Contribution       118,965  82,665  60,885   7,986       0    270,501    3,605.0  2,505.0  1,845.0    242.0       0.0    8,197.0
DOGIS/SIDA Contribution    13,200  13,200  13,200  13,200  13,200      66,000      400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    2,000.0
.... .         . i....... .. . _..___.... _ .i;.. _.__.__.. _; ... ...... ..........  .......  .......... ___ _. ...  ....... ..........   ........
Total Contribution       132,165  9S,865  74,083  21,186  13,200    336,501    4,005.0  2,905.0  2,245.0    642.0    400.2   10,197.0
Shortfall Pa4per Funding  46,926  88,770 116,226 174,702  88,298    614,922    1,422.0  2,690.0  3,522.0  5,294.0  5,706.0   18,634.0
NOTE: UMICEF fuding consists of regular funding and supppleentary furding.
Fluctuations due to calendar year/fiscal year estimates.
UNICEF purchases paper prior to year of use.



- 57 -
ANNE) 9
3ANGLADBIS
GENERAL EDUTCATIO ItWOCT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
% Tota
CATEGORY                       -(Tab MMllin)-           -    (USS Million) -     S Fcneign  Bas
Locad   For4pga   Tobd     LocIA   Foreign   Total  E=bcange  Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CiVl Works                         2,507.2  1,036.6  3,543.9    77.7    32.1    109.8        29       41
B. Prfessdonal Fee8                      94.8             94.8      2.9        -      2.9        -        I
C. Furniture                            176.7    173.0   349.7      5.5      5.4      10.8      49        4
D. Equipment                              6.3    24.7    31.0       0.2      0.8      1.0       80        0
E. Vehices                               44.2    64.8    109.0      1.4      2.0      3.4       59        1
F. Boos and lournals                    915.3   893.5  1,808.8    28A       27.7    56.1        49       21
0. Tecnicld Asitanoo
1. Foreign EBpoab                      20.2    111.8   132.0      0.6      3.S      4.1       85        2
2. Loca Experts                        36.8       -      36.8      1.1       -       1.1       -        0
3. FeUwehi
Intrnaftiond                         1.6    29.9    31.5        0.1      0.9      1.0      95        0
RegWinal                             0.5      9.5     10.0      0.0     03       0.3       95        0
Subtota Technical Asidstane      59.2   151.2   210.3        1.8      4.7      6.5      72        2
H. Local Tninig                         676.2    49.6   725.9    21.0        1.5    22.5         7        8
TOTAL INVESTMNT COSTS                   4,480.0  2,393A   6,873.4   138.8    74.2   213.0         35       80
Physia Conigenie                        364.7   218.0   582.7       11.3     6.8      18.1      37        7
Price Conieancs                         964.7   640.5  1,605.1      11.2     9.4     20.5       46        8
TOTAL (Including Contingencies)         58.3  3,25.9  9,061.2   161.3    90.3   251.6             36       95
H. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Additiond Staff Salarie            1,499.3       -   1,499.3    46.5        -     46.5        -       17
B. Opertions and Maintena
1. Buiding                             16.0      1.7     17.7     0.5      0.1      0.6       10        0
2. Vehicles                           106.2    11.8    118.0       3.3      OA      3.7       10        1
Subtotal Opatios  an Maintenace        122.2    13.5    135.8      3.8      0.4      4.2       10       2
C. Consumale Materials                   59.5      6.5     65.9      1.8     0.2      2.0       10        1
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                   1,681.0    20.0  1,701.0      2.1      0.6    52.7         1       20
Prim Coatiagisa                         452.6      6.0   458.6      5.9      0.1      6.0        2        2
TOTAL (OIncuding C   aontinencis)       2,133.7    26.0  2,159.6     58.0      0.7    58.7         1       22
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    6,161.0  2,413.4  8,S4.4    190.9    74.8   265.7         28      100
Physica Coningecs                       364.7   218.0   582.7       11.3     6.8      18.1      37        7
Pd oe Co _finguww                     1,417.3   646A   2,063.7      17.0     9.5    26.5        36       10
TOTAL PROMCT COm                        7,943.0  3277.  11,2.8    219.2    91.0    310.2          29      117



188363 ACCOI" m0Oy EsCT COWONT
ANDLU    SEcOt DARY A 06001 PrO      w WAR5?mmw3AL 32VU*9UI
AM IUlU I0 - ;,                                         t A"t SCML  PR-P    bmi    6    TumLcvaa
CAROS                          bb                 gn. 91              wu        6s        4I       PEm7        t          -      m7                   _                _  _
c   _00 IlOr _M1           Tm        Tam    CoWv8            . u....    T_    T_18mq  t_l  _ oIm  9whi _W                             _t;
-M       p_      t        Tnk        *tab                         _ekp       _-,%t    F_-   _sw                     Tubb-tsct                                      * 
A C3W6t                    3.39    48,3.9           .         *  476          .-.2          .         .         .          .        .        .                                                           aft. .-.  .  . 3*4  254s,
0.  _~FA                      7166-.7.                        -   as,s         au.i         .         .          .         .        .        .         .         -        .         .       -    6*6.   0.9        0 s
C.F    -                     2164  3*.69            .         .   32,94l8    17.1,48    1             ..713.               .        .         *     *62                             .3WA.  O. *4,618*
D._nw                        as" IlA't            *        .   31S 1        2.ce      uWs           *      e.t          i      in..     *3.2   S,0         4111    7?*7%65        .      .     31.5  5*        Is
6.Y<                          40W.9    1  *I   5                     i. n 0.$29  W       1.19*                 *A                           *       .s53.   So"        136A         -       .   3     A  On5 WS.
r.         _            d*                 -                      4*.3,18.7   3232          *            * 4 5             .  I .9.                         4N.6                                           0
4.3510.3            1.3664     ?.23      2M.24                IW                                                   l ]g              M
0*.  .  .   .  '?s  *Axo.s     .          .Ftjt  .XJt      -St   kXt.?    2sW             *               . t .4    3"     "        U         f       S e°
a hmk~     0-   ti32         OA00           10,43.6    4530.)   24123A    7,142       53.180     SARA2  84*.3  13A0             0* jM-538    11*3*   16.I2.  30=74 238   06                   0
N. LadT t N1                       .    13,33.1 27m1o  t3 6        9X..   22922         2,18          .        777         *     033                                  SA .  M t.*           .      u*l    00        0e
tOtAL 2tJTOt.41n CS          1.T 2,2103*   73..u 2J8,t 0110  37.s 41169.         91      t7          1     37     .1.28                                      3 .S           7    82)1                nms 86   S6 
*. Ta8inm6a5
A  M_    w     _u~           69*68  7Jll7           .         .    2,518.  8.139*6      9,313         .    4Jllt.O              3it3e93       *   33573.    402.    33tt1                   - A03.  0.06            0*
Dt        smilmilkom
-        ~          _          25.13 5&12.                   00 oe   As,.4     t. "SA    156          00 oe* o             oe6 .O                               63 .73.  58         0.      0* 125.73.  0*           0*
C. C    _b86Ii.                LM1)3   2*2.I        .         -        .    32.734    174O0           .          .               883                         33.3.1      .         .            SAW    M*          80
TOTAL EC383A    OSTS          38.7204  77,86111.4    0*0      0.0 7399  1,284,866a    322.             0.0    4.11S*        0*0  4,64. I      0    2187*    6A*6    133.W8?         0*0    0*.0  3.03A*   M0       
TmOAL.ADrC1T6                3.o 75*33o .s1I3.8      * n.A    0.3.e 3              .3    s,lim 5    1,341.7t4O8          alm5  O6,I6I.2   "Pe .)  *414*             362IIA tU2t  3,7*6630               l  Gsm7.8   6* .11
mtl, j't MM2.                             tO.?      .         .   83.2        CM20        "sI3        .   1771.S         30.2  4919.7       3.6    t.#l3O     S3.4     422s         *       .   fle    M*6          0.0
P"     S _ Cow*mw7 1                  3297         .    30.32  tool4*   4*1831086    810*         1.4   41 1             971   3s5*.3   2*6.1   7A02.    8.7    5,36.8s   2,.3  5.4 220x,7.   C*M  7 7t
10143.0WCO51            .     ,6,88*699137 5346*37,168.3  94t9   2*8.37    6,067*                   526.  2,6t11         1.2580.6.    34,724    to? 7   4.01    48t.    3.313J 33,666  83l73    436 7JtU5.
Tam                            $*42 .9   8 .                  .    713        5.7        30*           .       OA        7.1 .7     .6      4*    3.1048       76J      96,34               . *  1 *6*  9.36  47*7*
_       _                    1 143*93  8t44313.f     -  47,67*  5327    25*4.4    21.53.'    t166.3  3*2.178.2    5.344  2,7l9.2  I3 9   33J*5.1   22.463t2   82,49.4   WPM  I.SM I*7*92   6.3116  23.3



*                                                                                  r smmiAMU 
mMsAlCU PLAN  WWIAMATYACOOIVU?
CAIrnS?  -IDA--  -~~~~~~S--  -6.-~ -.-iSA-   --4PA-  -401MW1 - -4IWPA-- -4INWW- --409--TOTMAL--   Uas.o   Put  DM&
W___    M _     An e Aine S Ah   I A*m_ S Anne I AbwS AM S Aa   I Am   S  t_                                               T    Tom
A.-@iUWa1                      78.2 3.8%   31.6 22    4.0  U.S   4.0  13         .       .        .       .       .        .- - -  310   O.O i      .s 1a1          78.     I"o
PwL                               0.9 30.6%   0.4 11.9          ., *   .  0.0%                                               *  *.7 *15 0Sli         1013a
C.F _                             7.7  .7%    5.2 263%   03  0.1%   05   Olm       -                                               1.3 10.OS   I.t   4.2%     &6      Si       13
D.AI_0   39%    0.2  3                                    0% 0.0 oo   0.0 0o o.               0.3 2.3s  0.03  1.51           .    0.1 tQOS   1.1   031        0.9     0I      0.1
L  d    *                         2L4 C4%    1.0 2A2S   0.1  0.0%  -         0           .     .  0.%   0.02  0%                   O  0.4  9.  3.9  1.3%      24     1$A
F. 3 _dibmu                      555 0S..SS   I1  23.4    1 S  0      l% 1S  05               0.2  0.2%   3.3  1.9%   tO  t47%   5.3  7JS  6.5  2Los    MAt    39               -
a. T%b Mmbhmw
I.~~~     -    .      .    -    1.00.3%    3*0.5%               .    2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~t4 55.I% . .         0.00  0.0~1  4.3   1.4%     3.
M                                           .    .    v°S  8:'3                 :    :    953.210oj 2.0%            .    .      .    .    1.2    4u5'
0    0.1%   0.2 QS t%               0.6  S.    0     4Q 1    .b   os    1.0  0.3%                    .     0.
0.2 68*5   0.1 35.51    .      .                03 0.3%        eLs    0.0
_TAw I                     0.0  0.01   0.0  0.0%   IAJ  O%    #A  O4S   0.0  0.0%   5.7 53.5%   0.5  67%    0O  0.01   0.0  0S   6.9   22              5.0      1.9     0O           I
R.LadT _i;g                       SA 2.M%   2.2  3."    5.0  1.6S   50 S.O   S    5.7 23nA    0.4  1.     o4  t.S       - s        0.7    M   2.5   7M9       1-7    2L27        
OrALuInmCOSs                      123.0 53.5%  52S  3.9%   12A4  4.0%  32.  4.0    5.7  2.3%   4.6  3.%   2.2  09    I0D  40%   2.6  9C   25t.6  63.t%   t             M4A     3.
A.d M    t9<J~m                  27.5 53.4%   5.9  7.5    1.1  A4S   1.1  OAS                 0.3  0.6%   0.1  0.2%          .     7.5 33."   51.6  16.7%      -      51.$
04           26.4%1 00   ,05...... .    1                                                                 0.6  0.25       .      0.6
,.w -  I  Js  Q    4.3%  0.0o .ol   0   001 QO   os        O.GS  l.2S  0.0  0.7%                2.0 3.%    4.    1.3       0.       3.6
_s 0 _ _t1dm.1 -IT  -5.8%   0.7 15.    O.Ot .OS  o0.   0Q0%   0.0  0.01  o. s .05  0.0  0.                           00 O0    2.3 45.0%  4*.    1.5%         Q5      41.2    0
C.C bm gug -                       .9 3.As   04 20.0%   OA  0.3S   0.4  0.1%             .   0.00  1.8%  0.04  3.8%                0.  5.2%    2    0.7%      0.2     2.0
TOTAL  TCUSUT COSIS                30.5 51.6S   5.I I .7     1.5  .5S   l3S  0.    0.   0.0    0.4  0%S  0.2  0.3    0        .OS  I9J. 33-.7   5.7  la9        0.7   5.0      0.0
TOHAL        IL _           I        S    W   St.6 186  -4.0  43s%   4              7  1L     50 J   .6%   2.4 OJS    .   .O%  42 MIS 30  t0%    9VIA    2KI                   WS
i                                                                                                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 60 -
Annex 12
BANGLADESS
GENERAL EDUCATION PBOJECT
Pro1ect Management
Steering Committee
The function of the Steering Committee vill be to:
(a) approve the draft Annual Development Plan budget for project
activities;
tb) approve annual physical targets;
(c)  reviw quarterly achievements;
(d) approve studies;
(e) review and approve terms of reference for appointment of
consultants; and
(f) provide inter-ministerial coordination.
Membership of the Steering Committee will includes
The Secretary of MOE, Chairmand
Additional Secretary MOE
Joint Secretary MOE
Chief, Planning Cell MOE
Representative of Local Government Division
Joint Chief, Education Wing, Planning Commission
Director General, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division
Director General Primary Education
Director General Secondary Education
Project Managers of Sub-projects
Project Coordinator, Project Implementation Unit, Member Secretary.
The Proiect Coordination Unit
The function of the PCU will be to:
(a) plan and coordinate project activities;
(b) monitor and supervise civil works; and
(c) evaluate project achievement.
Proiect Management
The d'y-to-day management of project activities will be the
responsibility of line managers in the education sector. for example, it will
be the respnsAibility of the Director General, Primary Education and his
Trainlig Dilrector to manage the in-service teacher training actlvities of the
project. The PCU will assist them plan and coordinate these activities with
NAPE, the PTIs and the NCTB.



- 61 -
Annex 13
BANGLADESH                           Page 1 of 2
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Monitoring, Research and Evaluation
I. Monitoring
A. Government Monitoring of Project
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be responsible for the
monitoring of the quantity, quality and timeliness of project inputs.
Accomplishments would be measured against the Yearly Project Plan (updated
quarterly) which would list expected quarterly targets for each implementing
unit. The PCU would receive regular reports In a standard format from the
operating units, e.g the Facilities Department would provide quarterly
reports on accomplishment of construction targets for urban schools, the
Ministry of Local Governmnt Engineering Bureau for rural schools, NCTB for
curricula and textbook targets, etc.
B. Cofinanciers Monitoring of the Project
The cofinanciers have agreed in principle to coordinate their
supervision of the project insofar as feasible. SIDA and DGIS have agreed to
finance a special supervisory facility which would provide a full-time
monitoring professional in Dhaka to monitor project plans and accomplishments
and provide reports to the Government and to the confinanciers. Special
studies would be financed prior to the biannual reviews to highlight areas of
special concern, e.. women in development, teacher deployment, construction,
maintenance etc.
II. Research and Evaluation
A. Primary Schools Facilities Research
Applied research into primary school design alternatives, maintenance,
furniture and costs. Some review of secondary school construction standards
would also be conducted.
B. Research and Evaluation of NGO and Community Group Activities
Up to three percent of the funds set aside for the development of NGO
and community group non-formal primary education and the School Attractiveness
Program would be used to assess the quality and replicability of efforts
carried out under this sub-component. Studies would be commissioned by the
NGO cell responsible for the management of the sub-component.



;   - 62 -                   Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
C. Illustrative Studies (Primary Education)
Commissioned on an as needed basis by the DPE to evaluate aspects of the
primary education program, e!.-. dropout studies, effectiveness of teacher
training, supervision etc.
D. Suummative Evaluation of Primary II Project.
E. Primary School Textbook Cost Savings Study
To be commissioned by the NCTB to review cost-saving options for
textbooks.
P. Primary School Teachers Incentive Program
To be commissioned by the DPE to review feasibility of modest incentives
for teachers based on dropout reduction, higher attendance etc.
G. Studies in Secondary Education
To be commissioned by the DSHE to review options in cost sharing,
accreditation, teacher training, management options for the DSHE, and a sub-
sector review of post primary schooling.



- 63 -                            Annex 14
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Low-Cost Schools Option
Criteria for the development of the pilot program for low cost schools:
(a)   planning criteria for the selection of school location and
determination of priority within available funding;
(b)   procedures and agency responsibilities for mobilization of
community efforts;
(c)   the development of a standard design for a permanent (pucca)
platform  to be located above appropriate flood level.  EThe
platform should be able to support a conventional semi-pucca
structure at a later date as and when funding becomes
availablel. A tube-well and latrine should be included;
(d)   development of designs for the superstructure as well as
construction procedurest
(e)   the use of trained notivators could be the AUEO's assisted by
higher level offhVials as appropriate;
(f)   relevant trpining for motivators and Governmunt officials in
community mobilization techniques, including the use of the
servicre of an KOO with broad experience in this field for such
trairnng;
(g)   the development of cost estimates and financing mechanisms.
(The extent of community development In financing Including
labor provision would need to be determined through the
program. Central and local government shares would also be
allocated);
(h)   the development of a simple agreement with the villagers
responsible, e.g., the school management committee listing the
responsibilities of the various parties, i.e. village, upazila,
central government and setting out the objectives of the
agreement. Such agreement should be posted for general public
information; and,
(i)   the use of engineering expertise from the Upazila to supervise
the construction of the basis platform and superstructure
according to agreed standards.



- 64 -                         Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESd
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to be Provided by Visiting
Specialists and Throuah Fellowships and Placements
Organizational                                                        Staff-
Unit                          Purpose                     Year  Months
Visiting specialists
DPE (TD)           Specialist Primary Teacher Educator         1990     24
NCTB               Expert in Primary Curriculum                1991     24
(Curriculum Wing)    Monitoring, Evaluation and Testing
Subtotal Primary Curriculums 48 Staff-Months
Secondary Curriculum Development           1990       9
Specialists                              1991       9
1992      6
Subtotal Secondary Curriculum: 24 Staff-Months
NCTB 1/            Experts in Population Education Curriculum 1990      12
(Population          Development and Training                  1991     12
Education Unit)                                                1992     12
1993     12
1994     12
Subtotal Population Educatioan 60 Staff-Months
NCTB               Textbook Production Specialist              1990
(Textbook Wing)    Editorial Manager (Foreign)
Design Manage                                to      70
Initial Textbook Production Planning
Consultant
Textbook Management Consultant              1994
Subtotal Primary Textbooks: 70 Staff-Months 2/
11 Technical assistance for those elements is illustrative and subject to
final confirmation consequent on GOB/donor negotiations.
2/ The exact balance across the areas of specialization will be redefined
prior to project effectiveness.



- 65 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
Organizational                                                        Staff-
Unit                          Purpose                     Year   Months
Secondary Textbook Consultant               1990      9
1993      9
Subtotal Secondary Textbookes  18 Staff-Months
Board of Inter-    Secondary Examinntions Specialist           1990     12
mediate and                                                    1991      12
Secondary                                                      1992     12
Education                                                      1993     12
Subtotal Sconday Examinatios:  48 Staff-)(nths
NEIAER 11          Expert ln Management Training               1990     24
Ministry of        Expert in Educational Management            1990
Education (EMS)   Information Systems                           to      96
1994
Experts in E:ISs Systems Analysis
and Prograiming
Subtotal UIAMIURNISt 120 Staff Months
DSHE               Expert in Secondary School                  1990     12
Supervision                                 1991     12
1992      6
1993      6
Consultants in Secondary School
Supervision
Subtotal Secondary School Supervisions 36 Staff-Months
Total Staff-Months: 424
l/ Technical assistance for those elements is illustrative and subject to
final confirmation consequent on COB/donor negotiations.



- 66 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
Organiutional                                                         Staff-
Unit                          Purpose                     Year  Months
YellowshiPs and Placements
DPE (TD)           Primary Teacher Educationt  Planning        1990      4
and Evaluation                r          1991       4
1992      4
1993      4
1994      4
UAPE               Primary Methods through the Medium          1990     48
of Englishs Early Years; Math;           1991      48
Environmental Studies                     1992     48
1993     48
1994     48
Placements in Primary Methods In            1990     24
Early Years, Math, English and            1991     24
Environmental Studies                     1992     24
1993     24
1994     24
NCTB               Primary Curriculum Development and          1990     12
Evaluation:  Math; English;               1991     12
Environmental Studiest Science;           1992     12
Early Years                               1993     12
1994     12
Secondary Curriculum Development            1990      6
1991      6
1CTB               Textbook Production                         1990     12
(Textbook Wing)                                                1991     12
1992     12
Textbook Editing                            1990     12
1991     12
1992     12
1993     12
Textbook Design and Illustration            1990      6
1991      6
NCTB               Masters Degree in Population Education      1990      14
(Population                                                    1991     22
Education Unit)
Short-Term Attachments                      1990     12
1991     12
Inter-Country Study Visits                  1990      6
1991      5



- 67 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
Organisational                                                        Staff-
Unit                          PurDose                     Year   Months
Board of           Secondary Examinations                      1990      6
Intermediste                                                   1991      6
and Secondary
Education
NIEAER (BEKA)      Masters Degree in Educational               1990     12
Management                                1991     18
1992     18
1993      6
Inter-Country Study Visits                  1991      8
1992      8
1993      8
1994      6
MDE (EKIS)         Educational Management Information          1990      6
Systems                                  1991      29
1992     44
1993     17
DSEZ               Secondary School Supervision                1990     18
1991     18
Total Schol.rsh4ps, PlceMOuts and Study Visits,  847 Staff-Months



- 68 -
ANNEX 16
BANGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA Di _msm  Schodod
Amounts        Cumultve             Cumulative
IDA Fisca Your              Disburd
& Smstr                  (        USS Millim        )          Paventa_
1991
lst (July 90-Dember90)                9.3               9.3                   6%
2nd (Janay 91 - June 91)              9.3               18.5                 12%
maiA
1st (July 91 - December 91)          13.1              31.6                  20%
2nd (Januaq  92 - Jun 92)            13.1               44.7                 28%
i993
lst (Jly 92 - Domber 92)             23.4              68.1                  43%
2nd anamy 93 - 1un 93)               23.4              91.4                  57%
1994
Ist(July93-December93)               21.5             112.9                  71%
2nd (anuaiy94-Juno94)                21.5              134.3                 84%
1995
lst (July 94 - Dcembr 94)            11.5             145.8                  92%
2nd(Jamary95-Junoe9)                 1.S               157.3                 99%
1996
lst (July 95- Dceomber 95)            2.0             159.3                 100%
Closing Date: Jmue 30, 199S



- 69 -                           Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
BNGLADESH
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Women In Development and the General Education Project
Notes on Measures Designed into the Project
1. The new MIS system is specifically designed to ensure that appropriate
gender sensitive data are collected, analyzed and used.
2. The recruitment of women teachers is to be facilitated bys
a. the funding, on a declining basis, of the salaries of new nev
female teacheres
b. the revision of recruitment rules to secure the recruitment of
women teachers on the basis of a 40:60 ratio over men;
c. measures to encourage the recruitment, training and deployment of
women teachers within their own locality;
d. reduction in the formal academic qualification baseline for the
entry of women in rural areas into primary teaching.
3. Agreement has been reached on the improvement of building norms In the
form of enhanced provision for vashing, latrine, recreational and
dormitory space in PTIs, NAPE, and as appropriate schools.
4. A Satellite Schools Program is to be introduced to:
a. bring schools nearer to girls in the first three grades;
b. provide a predominantly female teaching force in more remote rural
areas and additional female income to the local economy;
c.  extend contact time and provide flexible provision and timetabling
to suit local needs and particularly those of the female coumunity;
d. mobilize the local community and increase involvement;
e. provide for the appointment of a qualified female administrator at
Deputy Director level in the DPE.
5. In the fleld of curriculum and textbook development:
a. a capacity to address women In development Issues Is to be
established In the National Curriculum and Textbook Board with
three permanent posts in the first instance and to Include a
research capability;
b. all new textbooks ere to exclude gender discriminatory language,
Illustrations and 9'tuations and to reflect women's concers, as
well as to lncorporate issues of health, environmental and
population education;



- 70                             Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
c. through the ELC (Essential Learning Continuum) and CPA
(Continuous Pupil Assessw lt), teaching methods are to reflect
the need to enhance the self-image of girls and to revise the
teaching self-image of teactlrs;
d. provision of an incentive and motivation fund will reward those
upazlIas and schools sharing enterprise and rapidity in adopting
the new curriculum and methodss
e. linked with the reform of teacher training (see 7 below), all
educational personnel at all levels of the system will receive
reorientation and training In the new approaches, as well as a
large number of the voluntary personnel involved, such as PTA and
School Management Committee Chairpersons.
6.  An exsLting secondary glrls scholarship program to facilitate and
support the participation of girls, currently supporting some 18,000
girls in secondary schools, will be financed and extended.
7. The reform of both inltial and in-servLee education of teachers will
include a new curriculum for the Certificate in Education (the initial
qualification) and the revision of the school-level in-service cluster
training system including supporting materials, along the same lines as
the primary curriculum, including gender equlty consLderations, health,
nutrition, environmental and population educatlon, and the recruitment
and financial support on a declining basis of additional women faculty.
All primary teacher education faculty will also be retrained according
to the same principles and with the same materlals.
8. Two NGO programs will be initLated, deliverings
a. non-formal primary ed*cation along lines similar to those pioneered
by BRAC, recruiting more women teachers, offering a simplified
curriculum, more active teaching methods, flexible schedulLig, all
appropriate to the daily lives of women, close proximity to the
locality, improved retention and transfer;
b. a school Improvement fund to help and encourage schools to make
themselves more attractive to girls will be instituted through
a variety of measures, such as school uniforms, additional reading
materlals, school journeys, school feeding, etc.
9.  A Population and  asmily Life Education subcomponent will promote the
permeation of population education throughout the system for both boys
and girls. It will include a special unlt in the NatLonal Curriculum
and Textbook Board, as well as special training materlals for schools
and initial and in-service teacher education.
10. Co-financiers have agreed to provide finance for a special continuous
supervlsory and monitoring service, vhlch will offer more frequent and
detaLled formative evaluation of measures and to see that intended
criterla of equity are being met by all subcomponents and the project
as a whole (see also Annex 13).



Annex 18
- 71-                          Page 1 of 2
GRFAMAL    0 "DCTON PIOJUCT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.  Reuorts and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1.    Bangladesh% Strategy Paper on Women in Development. Two Volumes.
ASlPI. June 1989.
A-2.    Post Secondary Science Education Project, Final report, by
Cambridge Education Consultants Ltd. for Asian Development Bank
and Ministry of Education, Bangladesh. March, 1989.(Volumes I
and II)
A-3.    Bangladesht Public Expenditure Review, Publ4c Resource Management
during the Fourth Five-Year Plan, FY91-95. March, 1989.
A-4.    Vocational and Technical Education Review.  AS1UX. January, 1989.
A-5.    Mid-term Review of the Third Five-Year Plan, 1985 - 90. Planning
Commission, Ministry of Planning. February, 1989.
A-6.    Handbook on Educational Statistics of Bangladesh, 1988, Banbeis,
Ministry of Education. November, 1988.
A-7.    Third Five-Year Plan (1985-90) Education Sector Document.
Dhaka: Ministry of Education, October 1985.
A-8.    Policy paper on Education, Ministry of Education.  June,1988
A-9.    Bangladesh: Recent Economic Developments and Short-Term Prospects.
March, 1989.
A-10.   Bangladesh: Universalization of Primary Education.  Report of an
Evaluation Mission. UNDP, Dhaka, 1988.
A-11.   Haster Plan of Operations for a Programme of Services for Children
and Women in Bangladesh (Education Sector). The Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh and the United Nations Children's
Fund. June 1988.
A-12.  IUNDPIUNESCO Projects Universal Primary Education; Project Results,
Findings and Recommendations: The Terminal Report. February,1988.
A-13.   Development of Basic Education in Bangladesh, 1988 - 93: A Program
of Cooperation between The Government of bangladesh and UNICEF.
October, 1987.
A-14.   Bangladesh Educational Statistics, 1987, Banbeis, Ministry of
Education. September, 1987.
A-15.   Primary Education in Bangladesh, Banbeis, Ministry of Education.
January, 1987.
A-16.   Educational Statistics, 1986: A Hand Book, Banbeis, Ministry of
Education.  January, 1986.
A-17.   Educational Development in Bangladesh, Edited by S. A. Chowdury
with Delwar Hossain. Dhaka; March, 1986.
A-18.   Bangladesh: Sector Study on Education, ADB Manila. May, 1986.
A-19.   Attitudes of Parents Towards Schooling of Children in Bangladesh,
by K. A. Quasem. August, 1983.
A-20.   Profile of Education Sector Projects under Third Five-Year Plan
(1985-90). Dhaka: Ministry of Education, 1988.
A-21    SAARC Countries Workshop on Contemporary Problems of Primary
Education, 1986 (NAPE).



-72-
Page 2 of 2
5. Deot  n  Studio. ReUat*  to tgm Prtect
1.1.    Propeod Pr1ar Education Sector Project for Chittago
Diviioin. Asian Dovolopat Bank,  Technica Ass istace Project
Tem. June. 1989.
1.2.   A Report on the Rtaniations Systm  of Bangladesh. by the
thiversity of cmtbidge Local Eanlatisns Syndcate. Jue.
1989.
5-S.   An Evaluation of DIAC  a Primary EdUcation Program  (Final
Report). bry Dr  aarunue.sa l . Mrs Salza Akhter and Dr SidldiuW
1a  n. Dabkat December. 1989.
1-4.   The Planning of Education Progrm  at Central and Local Level, a
Beport by MalcolM K. reAeCr. March, 1988.
B-..   Report on the Mmangge t of Educatin Projecte. by Sr¢ai  Caivey.
March, 1988.
3-6.   Project Preparation Docusat for the Proposed langLadosh 8gnoral
e            Education Project, Parisi Deceber  1986.
B-7.    Evaluation of the Femalo Education. Scholarship Program, a Report
by Tin Myaing Thein, et al., Dhaka: September 1988.
B-8.   NCTB's Programme of Curriculum Renewal ant Modification
in the context of UPE. Dhaka: NCT8, September 1987.
C. Soleeted WoVdAlasePaors
C-i. Working paper on the Construction Prrt"m, by Gvrnt Sinclair, IDA.
July. 1909.
C-a.    Satellite Scbools Pllot Project, by James Lynch, MI. Juneo 1989.
C-S.    on-rorsml Primary Education Programs, by Stjoabjorn Gustav on.
SIDA Consultant. June, 10s.
C-4.   Strengthening of Local Ptimary Scbool MAaagesmt, by Stjo3rbjown
Gustavson, SID Consultant. June, 1908.
C.S. The Training of Primsay 3ehool Teachere, Working Paper by Jams
Lynch. IDA. July, 1980.
C-I.   Curriculun Developmet for Privacy School. by Jaws Lynch. IDA.
June. 1060.
C-?.    Secondary School Curricului Develojmst, by Elwyn Thoms. ODA
consultant, Jun, 1980.
C.S.   School Textbook s Repott on the Proposed langladeak Geeral
Education Project, by Antbony lad. SDA Coneultat, Book
Deveslopmtn Council, London. June, 1989.
C.9.    Textbook Develoent, a working Paper by Elvyn Them*, OD
consultant. June. 1909.
C-10. working Paper oan fopulation Education, by Ansar Zahn.
WM /O/iUNA, June, 1989.
C.il.  RzanivAtion Reforms A Working Paper by Elmyn Thame, OD
Consultant. Juse, 1989.
C-lU. langladesh Education Management Academy, A MDUP Project Docuoat,
by Mr Y. U. Sami. DRP Consultant. June, 1989.
C-lI.  Educational managemet Iformtlon S"tys  Network, A DD Project
DocmanFt. prCpared By Mr Chu, DP Consultant. June. 1089.
C-14.   Institutioal Developmets Dlrectorate of Secondary
Education(Develop2sSt of Supervisoy Capacity), by Elvy  Thooa.,
ODA Consultant. June, 1989.
C-1l.   langladeshs Basic Data and Missio  Projectloas, prepared by Soth
King. IDA. June, 1989.
C-16.   Performance Bonus to Primry School Teacbshr through Insurace.
By Shafat A. Chaudhuri, Dbaka. Juno. 1909.
C-17. Quality and Efficiency Issues in Primary Education, by James Lynch,
February 1989.
C-18. Teacher Education and the Training of Educational Personnel.
by James Lynch, February 1989.
C-19.   Teacher Education and the Essential Learning Curriculum
by James Lynch, February 1989.



IBRD 22119
BANGLADESH               ,
GENERAL EDUCAlION PROJECT
PRIMAY ROADS
- RAiLROADS
RIV~ERS
.26,                                           DIVISION BOUDARIES,  26'
--INTERNIA1TOINI  BOUNDARIES
-24-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    23
~~~~~~~~~~~I N DI A<,   
22*
W.0 t !?f7r ow ae8 2 -2r  °  25  50e
\~~~BNI~ ? c .a,                    p . O, a       ,-
30   160id XnLOMPETfl
9r0          9r
FEBRUA 1990



