Page  1
February 21, 1991
Ms. Agneta Lind
Acting Head of Division
Swedish International Development Authority
Birger Jarlsgatan 61
S 105 25 Stockholm
Sweden
Dear Ms. Lind,
      Letter of Agreement between the Government of Sweden and the
      International Development Association concerning the Financing of
      the Project Monitor for the Bangladesh General Education Project
       With reference to your telefax of February 13, 1991, we are pleased to 
acknowledge on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) the intention 
of the Government of Sweden  Sweden) to make available to IDA the sum of SEK 3,200,000 
(three million two hundred thousand Swedish Kronors) as a grant, for the five-year 
agreement period for the General Education Project in Bangladesh, for the purpose of 
financing the costs of a Project Monitor and other consultants to  be selected by IDA 
in consultation with the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) and the 
Directorate General for International Cooperation (DGIS), and related expenditures, 
for the Monitoring of the General Education Project.  The selected Project Monitor and 
other consultants will work under the supervision of the Asia Department I, Population 
and Human Resources Division, of IDA's Asia Region.
       Promptly following confirmation of this letter by you, Sweden will deposit into 
the Account "T" maintained with the Sveriges Riksbank in the name of IDA, half of the 
actual costs for the Project Monitor for the financial July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991 
and half of the actual costs for the recruitment of the Project Monitor, including 
costs incurred before the signing of this Agreement.
       Commencing on July 1, 1991, Sweden will pay a maximum of SEK 640,000 per 
financial year into the T-Account, divided into two equal amounts to be paid on July 1 
and January 1, respectively.
       The grant funds will be administered by IDA on behalf of Sweden in accordance 
with the terms of this letter.  The grant funds will be kept separate and apart from 
the funds of the IBRD and IDA.  The grant funds may be commingled with other trust 
fund assets maintained in the T-Account.  The IDA will be entitled to draw on the 
T-Account to pay the fees, travel and other reimbursable costs of the Project Monitor 
and other consultants recruited by IDA and other expenditures for the  Project Monitor 
Program (the Program). The funds in the T-Account may be freely exchanged by IDA into 
other currencies as may facilitate their disbursement.
       In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other 
expenses incurred by IDA with respect to the grant, IDA may invest the grant funds 
pending their  disbursement and retain for its own account the income from any such 
investment.
       IDA will exercise the same care in the discharge of the functions described ln 
this letter as it exercises with respect to the administration and management of its 
own affairs and shall have no further liability to Sweden in respect thereof.
       The recruitment of the consultants, and the administration and enforcement of 
any provisions of any agreement entered into between IDA and the consultants and/or 
third parties, will be the responsibility solely of IDA and will be carried out in 
accordance with its normal procedures.
       IDA will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the grant 
funds in the T-Account and disbursements made therefrom for the Program.  At the end 
of each fiscal year and as long as any grant funds remain in the T-Account, IDA will 
prepare a financial statement in Swedish Kronors with respect to the grant and forward 
a copy to Sweden. Following the completion of disbursement of the grant, IDA will 
cause the financial statements with respect to the grant to be audited by IDA's 
external auditors and will forward a copy of the auditors' report to Sweden.  Except 
Page  2
as Sweden and IDA may otherwise agree, any grant funds remaining in the T-Account upon 
the completion of the Program and the audit referred to above will be returned to 
Sweden.
       IDA will be responsible for the supervision of the Program and will keep Sweden 
informed of the progress of the Program, and furnish to Sweden all relevant 
information upon request.
       The arrangement covered by this letter may be terminated by either party with 
three (3) months prior notice in writing.  Upon such termination, unless the parties 
hereto agree on another course of action: (a) any agreement entered into between IDA, 
the consultants, and/or third parties shall not be affected by the termination and IDA 
shall be entitled to continue withdrawals from the T-Account in respect of such 
agreements as if this arrangement had not been so terminated; and (b)  any balance in 
the T-Account shall be returned to Sweden and IDA's functions pursuant hereto shall be 
considered terminated.  Promptly after termination, IDA shall furnish to Sweden a 
final report and a financial statement of the T-Account.
       The office in IDA responsible for coordination of all matters related to the 
implementation of the General Education Project and the Project Monitor Program is:
      Population and Human Resources Division
      Country Department I
      Asia Region
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, N.W.
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      U.S.A.
       We propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the manner 
indicated below, constitute an agreement between Sweden and IDA.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Director, Country Department I
Asia Region
Confirmed and Agreed:
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
Name
Date
