Page  1
November 23, 1992
The Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
            Re:  Credit No. 2118-BD
                 (General Education Project)
                 Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
1.     We would like to refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the People's 
Republic of Bangladesh and the International Development Association (the Association) 
dated May 4, 1990 for the General Education Project.  We would also like to refer to 
the letter from the Ministry of Education dated October 7, 1992 and the subsequent 
discussions in which your government requested the financing of study tours and 
applied research programs under the above referenced Credit.   We are pleased to 
inform you that the other two Donors for this Project, the Royal Netherlands 
Government and the Swedish Government through SIDA have agreed to share in the 
financing of the study tours.
2.     In order to finance the applied research program, we hereby propose to amend 
Category 1(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to read:
       "(1) Civil Works for:
                 (c)  Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project".
3.     In order for the Association as administrator of the grant funds from 
Netherlands and SIDA to be able to finance the study tours, we hereby propose to amend 
Category 10 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to include the financing 
of study tours.  Category 10 will therefore be amended to read: "(10). Consultants' 
services, studies and study tours for Parts A.4, H and 0.1 of the Project."
       If you agree with this proposal, please sign, date and return to us the 
attached copy of this letter.  The amendment will become effective on the date of your 
signature.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Jochen Kraske
Director
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ S. A. Munim
Authorized Representative
Date: June 6, 1993
Page  2
