Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2118 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(General Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 4, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2118 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Netherlands' Minister for 
Development Cooperation (the Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount 
of 26,500,000 Dutch Guilders, equivalent to approximately $14,000,000, to assist in 
financing Parts C, D, F, G, H and O of the Project on the conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Royal Netherlands Government;
      (C)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Swedish Government (Sweden) a grant 
(the Swedish Grant) in an amount of 86,200,000 Swedish Kronors, equivalent to 
approximately $14,000,000, to assist in financing Parts C, D, F, G, H and O.l of the 
Project on the conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swedish Grant Agreement) to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the Swedish Government;
      (D)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland (the UK) a grant (the UK Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
approximately $5,700,000 to assist in financing Part E of the Project on the 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the UK Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the UK;
      (E)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Page  2
Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately 
$5,000,000 to assist in financing Parts F, G, H, K, L, M, N, and O of the Project on 
the conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and UNDP;
      (F)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Children's Fund 
(UNICEF) a grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately 
$10,000,000 to assist in financing Parts F, G and H of the Project on the conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the UNICEF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and UNICEF;
      (G)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Fund for Population 
Activities (UNFPA) a grant (the UNFPA Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately 
$2,400,000 to assist in financing Part J of the Project on the conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the UNFPA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
UNFPA; and
      (H)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Asian Development Bank (the ADB) a 
loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds resources in various currencies 
equivalent to approximately $57,600,000 to assist in financing Parts A, F and H of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADB; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending 
June 30; and
      (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 120,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A through I of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank (its Central Bank) 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
Page  3
such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2000 and ending February 15, 2030. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2010 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
Page  4
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
           (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
          (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
         (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
           (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
          (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
         (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
          (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)  Subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph:
           (i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw to proceeds of any grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
Page  5
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
          (ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)  Sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely any events specified in paragraph 
(a) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the  
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)  the Borrower has amended its Recruitment Rules for Primary School Teachers 
to include a recruitment ratio of female teachers to male teachers of 60:40;
      (b)  all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Netherlands Grant 
Agreement and the Swedish Grant Agreement, other than the conditions relating to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled;
      (c)  the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Part I of the Project, shall 
have been established; and
      (d)  the Borrower has approved the Project Proformas for the carrying out of the 
Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the 
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
           External Resources Division
           Ministry of Planning
           Government of the People's
                Republic of Bangladesh
           Dhaka, Bangladesh
           Cable address:               Telex:
               BAHIRSAMPAD              642226 SETU BJ
               Dhaka                    672796 SETU BJ
      For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
Page  6
           Cable address:               Telex:
               INDEVAS                  440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
               By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount         Amount
                 Amount         of the         of the
                 of the       Netherlands      Swedish
                 Credit          Grant          Grant          % of
                Allocated      Allocated      Allocated       Expen-
               (Expressed     (Expressed     (Expressed      ditures
                 in SDR         in DFL         in SEK          to be
  Category     Equivalent)    Equivalent)    Equivalent)     Financed
(1)Civil
   works for:
 (a) Parts     39,960,000      6,240,000     20,100,000     90%
     A.1, B,
     F.1(a),
     F.3,
     F.5(a),
     G.6 and
     H.1 of the
     Project
 (b) Part A.2       80,000            ---            ---     100%
     of the
     Project
 (c) Part A.3   13,170,000            ---            ---     100%
     of the
     Project
 (d) Part C.1          ---        950,000      3,080,000     100%
     of the
Page  7
     Project
(2)Vehicles,    2,500,000         170,000        550,000    100% of foreign
   bicycles,
      expenditures,
   equipment and                                            100% of local
   materials under                                          expenditures
   Parts A, B,                                              (ex-factory
   C.4, F.1(a),                                             cost) and 70%
   F.2(a), F.2(b),                                          of local expen-
   F.3, F.5(a),
ditures for
   G.6, H.1 and I
other items
   of the Project                                           procured
locally
(3)Furniture     5,300,000        850,000      2,670,000    100% of foreign
   under Parts
expenditures,
   A, B, F.1(a),                                            100% of local
   F.3,   F.5(a),                                           expenditures (ex-
   G.6, H.1 and
factory cost and
   I of the
70% of local ex-
   Project                                                  penditures for
                                                            other items pro-
                                                            cured locally
(4)Textbooks,   23,460,000      2,400,000      8,000,000    100% of foreign
   journals                                                 expenditures,
   and other                                                100% of local
   materials    
expenditures (ex-
   under                                                    factory cost) and
   Parts F.1(a),                                            70% of local
   F.2, F.3,
      expenditures for
   F.5, G.6,                                                other items pro-
   H.1, H.3                                                 cured locally
   and I of
   the Project
(5)Professional    610,000            ---            ---    90%
   fees under
   Parts A.1,
   A.5, F.1(a),
   F.3, F.5(a),
   G.6 and H.1
   of the Project
(6)Incremental  18,770,000            ---            ---    100% of expen-
   staff                                                    ditures for
   salaries                                                 FY 1991; 87.5%
   under Parts                                              of expenditures
   C.5, F.1(b),                                             for FY 1992;
   F.1(c), F.3,                                             75% of expen-
   F.5(c), G and                                            ditures FY 1993;
   H.2 of the                                               62.5% of expen-
   Project                                                  ditures for
                                                            FY 1994; and
                                                            50% of expendi-
                                                            tures for FY 1995
(7)Stipends           ---      1,890,000      6,100,000     100% of expen-
   under Part                                               ditures for
   C.2 of the                                               FY 1991; 75% of
   Project                                                  expenditures
                                                            for FY 1992;
                                                            50% of expendi-
                                                            tures FY 1993;
                                                            and 25% of ex-
                                                            penditures for
                                                            FY 1994
(8)Operation    1,140,000        680,000      2,220,000     100% of expen-
   and main-                                                ditures for
   tenance                                                  FY 1991; 75% of
   costs under                                              expenditures
Page  8
   Parts F.1(a),                                            for FY 1992; 50%
   F.3, F.5(a),                                             of expenditures
   G.3,   G.6,                                              for FY 1993; and
   H.1 and I                                                25% of expendi-
   of the Project                                           tures for FY 1994
(9)Staff salaries 140,000            ---            ---     90%
   under Part I
   of the
   Project
(10)Consultants'      ---      2,080,000      6,570,000     100%
   services
   for Parts H
   of O.1 of
   the Project
(11)Fellowships       ---        340,000      1,100,000     100%
   for Part H
   of the
   Project
(12)Local train-  3,410,000      600,000      2,150,000     95%
   ing under Parts C,
   F, G and H
   of the
   Project
(13)Goods and          ---      7,650,000     25,040,000    100%
   services
   for Part D
   of the
   Project
(14)Unallocated 12,060,000      2,650,000      8,620,000
 TOTAL         120,600,000     26,500,000     86,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)  the term "professional fees" means fees for architectural and engineering 
services;
      (d)  the term "incremental staff salaries" means salaries payable to additional 
new or replacement female teachers and to additional project staff;
      (e)  the term "stipends" means payments to contract employees for services as 
instructors under Part C.2 of the Project; and
      (f)  the term "operation and maintenance costs" means cost of building 
maintenance, and cost of operating and maintaining equipment and vehicles purchased 
under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SIR 40,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (9) 
on account of payments made for expenditures under Part I of thee Project before that 
date but after November 1, 1989; (b) Category (1) (b) until: (i) the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association the implementation plan referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) the Borrower has employed architectural and 
engineering consultants to assist the Borrower in the monitoring of the carrying out 
of Part A.2 of the Project and the preparation of an evaluation report; and (c) 
Category (1) (c) until the Borrower has: (i) completed Part A.2 of the Project in a 
Page  9
manner satisfactory to the Association; (ii) furnished to the Association the 
implementation plan referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
(iii) has employed consultants to assist the Borrower in the monitoring of the 
carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project and the preparation of annual progress 
reports.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase equitable access to primary 
and secondary schooling; (ii) improve the quality of education at the primary and 
secondary levels; (iii) strengthen the management capacity of the primary and 
secondary sub-sectors; and (iv) prepare future policies and programs to reform the 
structure and financing of higher secondary and post
secondary levels.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Construction and Renovation of Public Primary Schools
1.    Construction of about 10,000 conventional classrooms.
2.    Carrying out of a pilot program of construction of low-cost classrooms.
3.    Construction of about 12,000 low-cost classrooms subject to satisfactory 
completion of Part A.2 of the Project.
4.    Carrying out of an applied research program on alternative approaches to primary 
school design, detail, maintenance and cost.
5.    Monitoring of the rural primary school construction program; provision of 
technical supervision for such construction; and provision of technical assistance 
relating to preparation and furnishing of reimbursement requests from upazilas to the 
Project Coordination Unit.
Part B:    District Primary Education Offices
      Construction of about 46 offices and warehouse facilities, including furniture 
and equipment, for District Primary Education Officers.
Part C:    Satellite Schools Pilot Program
1.    Construction of about 200 low-cost satellite schools in about 10 upazilas, each 
satellite school to include space for at least two classrooms.
2.    Provision of stipends to satellite school instructors.
3.    Training of satellite school instructors, supervisory teachers, head teachers 
and assistant upazila education officers.
4.    Acquisition of bicycles for supervising teachers and head teachers.
5.    Financing, on a declining basis, of the salary of the administrator of the 
Satellite Schools Pilot Program.
Part D:    Non-formal and Non-Government Primary Education Programs
1.    Establishment of a fund for the financing of non-formal primary education 
programs carried out by experienced Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) with proven 
capacity to implement such programs effectively.
2.    Establishment of a fund for: the development of expertise of less experienced 
NGOs; the financing of non-formal primary education programs developed by community 
groups; and the financing of experienced NGO trainers to assist local groups and other 
NGOs in the development of their programs.
3.    Establishment of a fund to provide grants to community groups and NGOs to 
develop replicable programs to make public primary schools more attractive to the poor 
and to girls, including school feeding programs, school uniforms, teaching aids, and 
Page  10
community outreach programs.
Part E:    Female Secondary School Scholarship Program
      Establishment of a fund for the financing of a female secondary education 
scholarship program.
Part F:    Training of Primary School Teachers
1.    Pre-service teacher education:
      (a)  Upgrading of the facilities at 53 Primary Teachers Training Institutes, 
including construction of additional dormitory facilities for women, upgrading of 
library and teaching facilities, expansion of the stock of books and journals, and 
acquisition of vehicles, equipment and materials.
      (b)  Financing, on a declining basis, of salaries of incremental staff as 
required for the above-referenced Institutes.
      (c)  Financing, on a declining basis, of salaries of new female primary school 
teachers employed under the Borrower's revenue budget before completion of the 
Project.
2.    Provision of:
      (a)  More frequent training in clusters at the school level for primary 
teachers; integration of the training calendars with textbook and curriculum 
development; and development of revised cluster training pamphlets.
      (b)  Intensified training for assistant upazila education officers and provision 
of bicycles to such officers to facilitate their visits to schools.
      (c)  Retraining for educational personnel in the primary school system, 
including orientation for voluntary and administrative personnel.
3.    Strengthening of the management capacity of the Directorate of Primary 
Education's Training Division, including upgrading of facilities, acquisition of 
vehicles, equipment and materials, and financing, on a declining basis, of salaries of 
incremental staff.
4.    Development of a plan for the career path of primary school teachers.
5.    Strengthening of the National Academy for Primary Education, including:
      (a)  upgrading of residential, teaching and library facilities; and acquisition 
of vehicles, equipment, materials, books and journals;
      (b)  in-country training and education to the master's or doctorate level of 
selected staff; and 
      (c)  financing, on a declining basis, of incremental staff salaries.
Part G:    Curriculum Development for Primary and Secondary Schools
1.    Development and introduction in all primary schools of the revised curriculum 
and associated teaching materials.
2.    Training of instructors at Primary Teachers Training Institutes in the new 
curriculum and retraining of assistant upazila education officers.
3.    Establishment, in the National Curriculum and Textbook Board, the capacity to 
address women in development issues.
4.    Redeployment of primary school teachers taking into account, inter alia, the new 
curriculum.
5.    Establishment of a non-formal incentive scheme for upazilas administered by the 
District Primary Education Officers and the Upazila Education Officers.
6.    Upgrading of the facilities of the Curriculum Wing of the National Curriculum 
and Textbook Board, including acquisition of vehicles, equipment, materials, books and 
journals.
Page  11
7.    Provision of academic and technical training for staff, and financing, on a 
declining basis, of salaries of incremental staff of the Curriculum Wing of the 
National Curriculum and Textbook Board.
8.    Strengthening of the Secondary School curriculum by the development of an 
Essential Learning Continuum for the lower secondary schools and development of a 
Continuous Pupil Assessment.
Part H:    Textbook Development
1.    Upgrading of the facilities of the Textbook Wing of the National Curriculum and 
Textbook Board, including acquisition of equipment and materials.
2.    Provision of training for staff, and financing, on a declining basis, of 
salaries of incremental staff of the Textbook Wing of the National Curriculum and 
Textbook Board.
3.    Carrying out of a pilot study on the re-use of primary school textbooks and 
other cost saving measures.
4.    Production and distribution of primary school textbooks, including acquisition 
of paper for printing.
5.    Development of secondary school textbooks for mathematics, language and science, 
including acquisition of equipment and provision of overseas fellowships for staff.
Part I:    Project Coordination Unit
      Establishment of a Project Coordination Unit including financing of salaries of 
staff and acquisition of vehicles, equipment and materials.
Part J:    Population Education
1.    Establishment of a Population Nutrition and Environmental Education function in 
the National Curriculum and Textbook Board, including acquisition of equipment and 
training of staff.
2.    Development of related education teaching and learning materials for primary and 
secondary schools up to the tenth grade.
Part K:    Examination Reform
1.    Strengthening of the structure and functions of the Boards of Intermediate and 
Secondary Education, including training of staff.
2.    Restructuring of the Secondary School Certificate and Higher Secondary 
Certificate examinations.
Part L:    Management Development
1.    Strengthening of the National Institute of Educational Administration and 
Educational Research by providing courses in educational management, including 
acquisition of equipment, furniture, books and journals.
2.    Provision of in-country training, fellowships and study tours for staff.
Part M:    Education Management Information System
1.    Establishment of a sectoral Education Management Information System to guide 
policy analysis and operations of the Borrower's Education and its operational 
Directorates, including in-country training and overseas fellowships for staff, and 
acquisition of equipment and one vehicle.
2.    Strengthening of the Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics 
to serve as apex institution for sectoral data collection and management.
Part N:    Secondary Education Supervision
      Strengthening of the management and educational audit capacity of the 
Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education in the Ministry of Education, including 
overseas fellowships for staff.
Page  12
Part O:    Studies
1.    Carrying out of investigative studies in the primary education sub-sector, 
including: (i) summative evaluation of the Second Primary Education Project (Credit 
1574-BD); (ii) feasibility study of teacher incentive program; (iii) study of methods 
to increase community participation in public primary schools; (iv) monitoring of 
models of textbook re-use programs and other cost-saving measures; (v) illustrative 
studies for program evaluation; and (vi) project preparation for future projects.
2.    Carrying out of studies in the secondary and higher education sub-sectors, 
including: (i) study on improvement of cost sharing and student aid; (ii) study to 
define means to provide grant aid to private secondary schools and colleges receiving 
Government aid; (iii) study of methods to improve selection and training of secondary 
school teachers; (iv) study to examine the management of secondary and higher 
education by the Borrower; and (v) study to define the issues and policy
and program options in secondary and post-secondary education.
                        *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for goods under Part A.5 of the 
Project; and (ii) contracts for paper for textbooks under Part H.4 of the Project, 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more 
each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works and furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
2.    Civil works for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project may be carried out through 
direct agreements with the concerned school management committees utilizing the model 
agreement referred to in  paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.    Equipment and paper for textbooks estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Printing of primary school textbooks shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures acceptable 
to the Association.
5.    Books and journals under Parts F.l (a), F.3, F.5 (a), G.6 and H.l of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
6.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 
Page  13
for contracts, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association or through direct contracting 
with the suppliers of such items, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated to cost 
more than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.l, A.5, F.l(a), F.3, 
F.5(a), G.6, H and 0.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Coordination Unit with qualified staff in adequate numbers, 
including a Project Coordinator.
2.    The Borrower shall, not later than May 30th in each year, commencing not later 
than May 30, 1991, furnish to the Association for comments, the proposed financing 
plan for the education sector and the enrollment growth targets for each level in 
private and public schools.
3.    The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association for comments, by November 1, 
1992, the results of its mid-term Project review, including recommendations for 
improvements, if required; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such recommendations taking 
into account the comments of the Association.
4.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)  within two months after the end of each fiscal year until completion of the 
Project, commencing not later than September 1, 1991, furnish to the Association a 
report prepared by the Project Coordination Unit, evidencing that expenditures 
submitted during such fiscal year by each participating upazila were eligible or 
justified under the Project; and
Page  14
      (b)  if the report referred to in paragraph (a) above relating to an upazila is 
found unsatisfactory by the Association, suspend the participation of such upazila in 
the Project until corrective measures, satisfactory to the Association, have been 
taken by such upazila.
5.    In carrying out Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project, theBorrower shall prepare a 
detailed implementation plan, acceptable to the Association, including procurement 
procedures and model agreements for the construction of the low-cost classrooms.
6.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall, by April 30 in 
each year, commencing April 30, 1991, furnish to the Association the list of schools 
to be constructed in the following fiscal year, including confirmation that 
formalities for site acquisition have been completed for such schools.
7.    In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, by November 1, 
1992, furnish to the Association for comments, the results and recommendations of the 
mid-term review of the construction program, and, thereafter, carry out the 
recommendations taking into account the comments of the Association. 
8.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1990, appoint a deputy director with qualifications acceptable to the 
Association, to administer the Satellite Schools Pilot Program, such deputy director 
to be located in the Directorate of Primary Education in the Borrower's Ministry of 
Education.
9.    In carrying out Part F.l (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, by April 30 in 
each year, commencing April 30, 1991, furnish to the Association for comments, a list 
of the Primary Teachers Training Institutes whose facilities would be upgraded in the 
next fiscal year, including design proposals, cost estimates and draft bidding 
documents.
10.   In carrying out Part F.l (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall, by September 1 
in each year, commencing September 1, 1991, furnish to the Association a report of the 
number of new and replacement female teachers recruited during such fiscal year and 
employed under the Borrower's revenue budget.
11.   In carrying out Part F.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, 
update, in consultation with the Association, the procedures for the promotion of 
primary school teachers to include credit for in-service training.
12.   The Borrower shall carry out Part G.3 of the Project by December 31, 1990.
13.   The Borrower shall carry out Part G.4 of the Project in accordance with an 
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Association, including a completion date 
for the redeployment by June 30, 1995.
14.   In carrying out Part H.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)  by June 30, 1993, furnish the recommendations of the study to the 
Association for comments, including the Borrower's policy recommendations for cost 
saving measures, including re-use of selected textbooks; 
      (b)  by December 31, 1993, prepare a plan of action for the carrying out of the 
recommendations, taking the Association's comments into account; and
      (c)  thereafter promptly carry out such plan of action.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6), (8), (9), and (12) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  15
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $11,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
      (b)    (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of $22,000,000 twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  16
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association 
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
