Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8825
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CHA)
JUNE 25, 1990
Country Department III
Asia Region
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officil duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



ABBRFVIATIONS
AA    -    Audit Administration
CIDA  -    Canadien Internationai Development Agency
ECPDI -    East China Power Design Institute
EIS   -    Epidemiology Intelligence Service
EFD   -    External Finance Department
FMDC  -    Foundry Management and Design Company
IDA   -     International Development Association
MOCI  -    Ministry of Chemical Industries
MOC   -    Ministry of Communications
MOF   -    Ministry of Finance
MOPI  -    Ministry of Petroleum Industry
MOR   -    Ministry of Railways
MWREP -    Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCR   -    Project Completion Report
RMB         Chinese Currency
SDR         Special Draving Rights
TA    -    Technical Assistance
TCC   -    Technical Cooperation Credit
UNDP  -    United Nations Development Program



ROFnCALLu NoLY
THE WOItLD SANK
WashiMnton  C. 20433
U.SA
ON" Cd Oituctm4wai
June 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China - Technical
CooDeration Proiect (Credit 1412-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China - Technical Cooperation Project (Credit
1412-CHA)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Tlldwnmt ha a tWd dubudD and may be _m by scolents on* in the pogfomoo
of *w ofki dutk& Its ntents mynotn othenrw be ddgW-d witbut World EBakauD""isit



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CElI
TZCBNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1412-CIA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ................................................. 1 . ......0.0                 i
Highlights ...............................................................    jl
PART ONEs PROJECT REVIEW
I.     INTRODUCTION  ...........*..............1
Project Identity  .....................                                         1
Country Background and Priorities for Technical
Assistance  ...................                                       ..     1
The Bank's Role and Strategy  ...............                ......             1
II.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN  ...........................                      2
Project Formulation ........ .....................                              2
Project Objectives and Description  ......................                      3
Project Design and Organization  .........................                      3
Project Costs and Financing . ........... ... .............  .                  5
III.  IMPLEYENTATION EXPERIENCE  ......... . . . .   .......................... ... .  5
Arrangement for Project Implementation  ..................               .      S
Subprojects Financed Under TCC  ..........................                      6
Types of Technical Assistance Financed Under TCC ........                       a
The Management of Technical Assistance  ..................    10
Project Relationships                 ..........................*.........    11
IV.    PROJECT RESULTS  ... ................... ... .. .... .. .  ................    12
Follow-up Investments  . *........... .................               ... .   12
Impact on Human Resources Development  ................  ...    12
Impact on Technological Environment  .....................    12
Impact on NationallLocal Institutions  ...................    12
ANNEX:   Subproject Description and Performance  ................    14
This document has a testricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the performnance
of their oMchl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Contd)
PART TWO: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits ..................................  44
Project Timetable ............................. . .    45
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements        .        46
Subprojects Financed Under Credit 1412-CA.. .                 47
Follow-up Investments Resulting From Subprojects
Financed Under Credit 1412-CHA                    .         49
Sector Distribution of Subproject                .            51
Status of Covenants ...... ............   52
Staff Inputs        ..               ..............           53
Mission Data ...........                                      54



- i -
CHI"A
TECENICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1412-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report reviews the Technical Cooperation
Project in China for which an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent was
approved on August 24, 1983. Although the original closing date was December
31, 1987, it had to be extended by one year due to delays in disbursements and
completion of subprojects.  The final disbursements under the project will be
completed by June 30, 1989.
This report was prepared by the Technical Assistance Unit, Asia
Region on the basis of a review of the President's Report (No. P-3638-CHA),
the Developmeat Credit Agreement of October 17, 1983, eight supervision
reports (1983-89), correspondence in the Asia Information Center and a draft
completion report prepared by the Borrower dated January 7, 1989.
The Project Completion Report was prepared generally according tu
the November, 1988 guidelines except that the draft prepared by the Government
was incorporated into Part One of the report, since that was the arrangement
which had been made earlier for this project. The PCR is divided into two
parts: Part One consists of a report on the project as a whole, largely based
on the Government's draft, and an annex providing a description of each
subproject, a summary of the implementation, and a brief evaluation of each
subproject financed under the project; and Part Two includes a summary of
statistical data on the project, prepared on the basis of data supplied by the
Bortower and information in the project files.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on November 9, 1989, for comments by
December 27, 1989, but none were received.



- ii -
ca
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1412-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLSTION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       Parts I and II of this Project Completion Report (the government
input and the Bank input) are combined per earlier agreement between the
government and the Bank. (Preface, pars. 3)
2.       The Technical Cooperation Project was designed to supplement the
flows of concessional funding in order to provide a ready selrce of
financing for technical assistance to help prepare projects to be financed
under the expanding Bank Group lending program in China. (para 1.4)
3.       The project design was innovative in the context of China in that
it represented a floating line of credit and funds for the sub-projects
included wer.e not pre-approved. (paras 2.5 and 2.6)
4.       Both the Government and IDA paid particular attention to
arrangements for project coordination during the design stage, resulting in
the appointment of a Technical Assistance Coordinator by the Government.
(para. 2.7)
5.       The Project required five years for completion, but resulted in 29
*      sub-projects and was considered successful and effective.  (para. 3.1)
6.       The Project's primary objective of project preparation was
achieved. (para. 3.5)
7.       There were three categories of sub-projects approved under the
Project: those costing less than SDR 200,000; those costing between SDR
200,000 and SDR 1,000,000; and, two sub-projects costing more than SDR
1,500,000 each. (paras. 3.6 - 3.8)
8.       Several of the approved sub-projects had institution building
aspects. (para. 3.9)
9.       The Government staff assigned to the Project performed well, but
frequent staff changes created the need for greater Bank staff inputs.
(para. 3.19)



- iii -
10.      Cooperation between the Ministry of Finance (MOP) and the
participating line agencies was generally smooth but reporting by sub-
project entities was often wanting. (para 3.20)
11.      The complexity and size of the Project complicated the Bank's
supervision, the responsibility for which rested primarily with the Asia
Technical Assistance Unit. MOF and line agencies will be expected to take
on more of this burden for future projects of this type. (para. 3.22)
12.      The project resulted in the preparation of 21 Bank or IDA projects
with an investment of $2.1 billion. (para. 4.1)
13.      The Project had an extensive impact o.z national/local institutions
and both the technological and human resource environments. (paras. 4.2 -
4.4)



CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1412-CUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART ONE
1. INTRODUCTION
Proiect Identity
Project Names   Technical Cooperation Project
Credit Nos      1412-CH&
RVP unit:       Asia Regional Office
Country:        China
Sector:         Technical Assistance
Subsector:      Subprojects in various sectors
Cou.ntry Backgtround and Priorities for Technical Assis-tace
1.1         Access to technical assistance for a broad rauge of economic
sectors and activities is essential for achieving China's development
objectives. A 3hortage of wvll-prepared investment projects has Inhibited the
Governuont's ability to utilize fully the volume of development aid available
frm bilateral and multilateral sources. The limited capacity of the
Government to identif7 and prepare good projects is not only a constraint- to
the pace of developmet but also tends to leave a large part of the initiative
in project selection and design to aid donors. Chiua is itself working
vigorously to improve access to commercially held technology through the
promotion of Joiut ventures, licensing arrangements, service contracts and-
other means. owever the scope for technical assistance is vast. ITa
recognition of these needs, bilateral and multilateral agencies concerned with
development assistance to China have increasingly included substantial amourts
of technical and implementation aid in their overall commitments to the
country. Technical assistance agreements have been signed with several..
goveraments including Japan, AustraliA, West Grmany and Canada. P number of
other governments are also providing technical assistance, and substanti_L.
assistance is made available through the United Nations Development Progrm
(UNDP) as well as the World Bank Group.
The Bank's Role and Strategy
1.3         A key element of the Bank's prograa in China has been to provide
technical assistance to strengthen China's capacity to prepare and implement
investment projects. Proj6et preparation and implementation are carried out
by the various sectoral ministries and other llnq agencies, and technical-
assistance is often required to introduca technology and other know-how. ot
presently available in China. It is the Bank's policy to use UNDP and other
sources of grant financing for technical assistance vhenever these are
suitable and readily available. While the UNDP and other bilateral donors
also finance technical assistance for preparation of Bank-financed operations,



-2-
the amount of such concessional funds is limited, sometimes tied to procurement
of services in a particular country, or not always available promptly at the
time required.  The basic justification for the Bank's lent ng for technical
assistance has therefore been to provide an additional assured source of foreign
exchange for technical assistance activities in cases where other financing was
not readily available on apprupriate terms and conditions, or where bank
financing facilitated more expeditious preparation of projects suitable for
consideration by external aid agencies.
1.4        While the bulk of Bank-financed technical assistance to China has
been included as components of larger investment projects in various sectors,
the Bank has also undertaken to provide financing for IDA credits specifically
tailored to address the technical assistance needs of the country. There was a
need for a flexible source of technical assistance funds, beyond that attached
to individual projects, to provide assistance quickly and for a btoad range of
activities. Accordingly, IDA approved the Technical Cooperation Credit for
US$10.0 million equivalent in September 1983 with the principal objective of
providing a ready source of financing for technical assistance to help prepare
projects to be financed under the expanding Bank Group lending program in China.
This project was followed by two other free-standing, multi-sectoral technical
assistance projects financed by IDA: the TCC II was approved in FY86 for
US$200. million equivalent; and the Planning Support and Special Studies,
approved in FY87, to provide US$20.7 million equivalent to finance planning
studies as input to China's 8th Five Year Plan (1990-95), special studies of an
inter-sectoral or innovative nature, and institutional development activities
including in-service education ana training of officials, mainly in central
government agencies responsible for thq implementation of China's economic,
financial and industrial reform.  Both (<  these projects are under
implementation.  A third TCC has been ntc5oiated, and is scheduled for con-
sideration by the Executive Directors shortLy. The first TCC should therefore
be viewed as the initial seSment of a continuing process of strengthening
Thina's capabilities for the development and management of investment projects
and institutional strengthening.
IT. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
Proiect Formulation
2.1        The Bank began discussing the possibility of ai IDA credit for
technical assistance with the Government in the early 1980s. In light of the
expanding Bark program in China, and the need to supplement existing sources
of technical assistance, it was agreed in January 1983 to pursue consideration
of a technical assistance credit. In February 1983, the Bank conducted a
workshop on freestanding technical assistance projects for the Ministry of
Finance using the IDA technical assistance projects in Bangladesh as a case
study. A Bank appraisal mission visited China in March of the same year.
Negotiations for the credit were held in July 1983 after the project was
approved by the State Council. The Government and IDA agreed that the project
be modelled on the freestanding technical assistance projects operating in
Bangladesh i.e., projects composed mainly of discrete subprojects each one to
prepare or test the feasibility of an investment project. The project was



-3-
presented on this basis to the Bank's Board (President's Report No. P 3638-
CIA) on August 24, 1983 as a first Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC). The
Vevelopment Credit Agreement was signed on October 17, 1983 and the project
became effective on December 21, 1983.
Protect Obiectives and Description
2.2         The principal objective of the Technical Cooperation Project was
to provide an assured and flexible source of financing for technical
assistance for the preparation of high priority projects in cases where other
preparation financing was not available on appropriate terms, or where IDA
financing would expedite preparation of projects eligible for external
financing. Further objectives included the provision of limited technical
assistance for the inst2.tutional development of agencies involved with Bank
Group operations. In addition, the credit was desipned to finance limited
amounts of equipment required for implementation of the technical assistance
provided. Underlying the immediate objectives was the longer term objective
of strengthening China's capacity for project preparation and implementation
and technical assistance management.
2.3         The project was designed to finance approximately 20-25
subprojects invo:ving high priority technical assistance needs. Individual
subprojects, their method of implementation and allocation from the credit
would be decided by the Government and IDA on a case-by-case basis. According
to the Credit Agrement (Section 3.01), the subprojects would be of high
priority in the Government's economic development plan and consistent with the
Bank Group's lending strategy in the country, and would have no other equally
suitable source of external financing. Subprojects or activities financed
from the credit would include major inputs into large feasibility studies,
assistance with or review of other feasibility and prefeasibility studies,
other preparation work such as expert panels, individual specialists and study
tours, and other activities designed to strengthen institutions responsible
for project prrnaration and implementation.
2.4         It was estimated during preparation that the project would cover a
three-year period (FY84-86), two years fer commitment and a third year to
complete disbursements. The Closing Date for disbursements was established as
December 31, 1987.
Proiect Desion and Orzanization
2.5         The project was innovative in the context of China since it was
the first in a series of freestanding TA credits provided by IDA to that
country. It was prepared on the basis of the recognition by the Government
and IDA that adequate fur"- for the preparation of projects to be financed by
the Bank Group were not available from other sources, and that such
preparation funds would be provided under the TCC on a case-by-case basis.
There was a clear understanding between the Government and the IDA, however,
that the Government would continue to utilize grant financing from UNDP and
bilateral sources whenever it was suitable and readily available. The TCC
would fill the need for an assured and flexible means of financing project
preparation only when other sources were unavailable.



-4-
2.6         The project was designed to serve as a flexible line of credit,
whereoy the approval of the overall credit did not depend on a prior
determination of each discrete study to be financed by the credit. Since all
of the subprojects could not be identified at the time of preparaticn, the
proceeds from the credit were not pre-allocated. This permitted the
Goveroment to request allocations for individual subprojects as the need
arose.  The simplicit- and flexibility of the credit procedures for commitment
and disbursements of funds vas, in tusn, designed to pernit the proceeds to be
used to meet urgent needs which often could not be foreseen with much lead
time. The timing of the project was appropriate in that it provided an
assured source of foreign exchange for technical assistance activities at a
time when UNDP confirmed tbat only limited additional resources could be made
avaitable for tne preparatioa of projects to be financed by the Bank at least
through 1986. The prospects for bilateral financing. although brighter, were
tied to various restrictions on their use.
2.7         During project design considerable atteution was paid to
arrangements for coordination by both IDA and the Government. The number of
varied suhprojects, each requiring separate attention, made coordination a
crucial concern as did the monitoring of the project as a whole. During the
project appraisal, the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
entire credit was given to the External Finance Department (EFD) of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). It was agreed that MOF would consult with the
State Planning Commission if there was any question about the status of .he
investment project which the TCC subproject would support. As a general rule
MOF would not agree to process subprojects for project preparation until the
project had been approved for Bank Group borrowing by the State Planning
Commission. MOF would consult with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
and Trade concerning the availability of UNDP and bilateral financing for the
proposed subproject. Within EFD a Technical Assistance Coordinator was
designated to ensure management of the overall credit and coordination between
subproject entities and IDA. For individual subprojects, the line ministries
were responsible for presenting requests for TCC financing to MOF. After
approval by HOF the subprojects were forwarded to IDA for approvel.
Subprojects were approved by IDA on the recommendation of and supervised by
the appropriate division of the former East Asia Projects Department, while
overall credit supervision and coordination of the TCC was perforzied by the
Technical Assistance Unit of the former East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
Prior to approval, the subprojects are cleared with the Country, Legal and
Loan Departments. Since the reorganization of the Bank in 1987. most of the
individual subprojects have been supervised by the Sector Operating Divisions
in the China Department. Supervision of the remaining subprojects has been
delegated to a staff member in thc Technical Department by the China Country
Operations Division. Overall supervision of the TCC was the responsibility of
the Technical Assistance Unit, with the help of a country officer. The line
ministries haildled all technical aspects of the subprojects, and contrac4ed
consultants, arranged study tours and other training, and procured equipment.
The subproject beneficiaries were responsible for repaying the TCC funds to
MOF in the first year following the grace period of the follow-up Bank loan or
credit. Repayment of the principal, along with a 1? service charge was
normally required five years after the subproject was approved.



-5-
Project Costs and Financing
2.8         The credit amount - US$10.0 million equivalent - was calculated on
the basis of an estimate of the technical assistance requirements expected for
project preparaticn during FY84-85. The total project cost was estimated at
US$12.0 million, with a foreign exchange cost of US$9.0 million. The IDA
credit for SDR 9.4 million (US$10.0 million) would finance the full foreign
exchange costs, as well as a portion of the local costs. The Government would
finance the remaining US$2.0 million of local costs. No allowances were made
for physical and price contingencies as the project was a line of credit to
help finance a program defined in financial terms and for which the specific
requirements were not known at the outset.
2.9         It was estimated that about 70% of the credit would finance
consultant services and about 302 would finance study tours, other training
and equipment. The credit would finance 1OOZ of foreign expenditures for
consultant services. In addition, the credit would finance foreign
expenditures for equipment and materials, and for study tours and other
training programs associated with project preparation or implementation. The
credit would also finance 1002 of local ex-factory costs for equipment made
locally and 752 of local expenditures for imported items procured locally.
The Government's contribution to individual subproject costs included the
financing of counterpart staff, local consultants and support facilities.
It!. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.1         The First Technical Cooperation Project was implemented over a
period of five years and was closed on December 31, 1988 after the credit was
extended by one year to complete disbursements.  Twenty-nine subprojects were
approved under the project (of which one subproject was cancelled), committing
1002 of the funds. In general, the first TCC was considered by both the
Government and IDA as successful and effective in achieving its objectives.
The level of performance achieved under the project was high, particularly in
terms of preparation of projects financed by the Bank and IDA.  TCC I
contributed to the rapid increase in lending by the Bank and IDA for
investment projects in China.
Arrangements for Proiect Imolementation
3.2         Project activities got underway with the establishment of
guidelines and institutional arrangements within the Ministry of Finance to
administer the First TCC   These institutioanl arrangements were completed
before the project became effective. Responsibility for the management of the
overall credit was placed in the World Bank Division II of EFD which assigned
two staff members to coordinate the TCC, a coordinAtor and an assistant
coordinator. Simple procedures were issued for processi-g of subptojects and
a one-page TCC subproject application form was also issued. Considerable time
was spent during the initial supervision missions reviewing the new
arrangements for the administration of the TCC. The Bank provided training to
the TCC staff and organized a study tour financed from the UNDP Umbrella



- 6 -
Project to Pakistan and Bangladesh to let the Chinese officials responsible
learn first-hand how other countries manage technical assistance, and in
particular how they administer free-standing technical assistance projects
financed by IDA. Although project administration was subsequently affected by
frequent structural and personnel changes (see para. 3.19), the institutional
arrangements put in place by the original TCC staff continued to serve the
project well.
Suboroiects Financed under TCC -
3.3         The TCC became effective on December 21, 1983 and the first
subproject -so approved on January 24, 1984. MOF and IDA approved 29
subprojec:, of  hich 24 were completed and fully disbursed prior to project
closing a'  :b aubproject was cancelled; three others have been completed and
are awaita.g f nal disbursements; and one subproject is still ongoing.  A list
of subprojects is included in Table 4. The 29 subprojects approved exceeded
the appraisal estimate (Z0-25) and fully committed the credit funds by
December 1986. Savings from some subprojects were subsequently reallocated to
the uncommitted portion of tho TCC and later reallocated to other subprojects.
The subprojects were implemented by 13 line ministries and provincial authori-
ties. The credit account will remain open until June 30. 1989 to complete
disbursements of the remaining subpro.jects. Any subpro4ects for which
disbursements have not been completed by June 30. 1989 will be transferred to
TCC II at that time. If there are still any remaining undisbursed funds in
TCC I on June 30. 1989, an amount equal to the remaining undisbursed amount in
TCC I will be transferred from TCC II to TCC I from funds already disbursed in
TCC II. This accounting transaction will complete disbursement of all funds
in TCC I.
3.4         The implementation experience of the various subprojects is
reviewed in detail in Annex 1. Subproject activities are summarized and major
highlights are reviewed in this section.
3.5         Proiect Preparation Obiective.  The primary objective of the
project was to finance project preparation activities and feasibility.studies
in order to build a pipeline of projects for financing by Bank and IDA. This
objective has been achieved. Out of the 29 approved subprojects. 24 were
msainly for project preparation, and SDR 7.9 million were disbursed for this
purpose. Of these, 21 subprojects (with total disbursements of SDR 7.2
million) contributed to the preparation of 21 investment projects and subse-
quent Bank/IDA lending totalling more than US$2.0 billion. The 24 subprojects
which financed project preparation activities can be divided into three
categories in terms of size and types of technical assistance.
3.6         The large majority of the subprojects (16) fall under the first
category which consisted of small, discrete activities, with allocations of
generally less than SDR 200,000, designed to provide high priority technical
assistance to meet specific project preparation needs. In all cases, the
subprojects financed a single type of technical assistance, usually study
tours, to assist with technical or project management aspects during the
preparation of investment projects. Twelve subprojects exclusively financed
study tours. For example, subprojects 13 and 14, with final disbursements of



SDR 171,891 and SDR 111,454 respectively, financed study tours on various
health related and management topics to assist in the preparation of two IDA-
financed projects in the health sector. Subproject #10 disbursed SDR 95,136
to finance study tours during the preparation of the Second Railway Project
(Loan 2540-CHA). Similarly, SDR 70,026 was utilized to send two study tours
under subproject Jll to make a selection of equipment to be procured under the
Seeds Project (Credit 1577-CHA). Subprojects #25 (Freshwater Fisheries
Project Preparation - SDR 41,224), #26 (Red Soil Project Preparation - SDR
32,953) and #27 (Xinjiang Area Deveropment Project Preparation - SDR 44,533)
all required small allocations from the TCC to finance specialized study tours
on technical, management and equipment selection issues during the preparation
of the main investment projects. Two other subprojects (#7 and #23) provided
funds for the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power to hire Special
Boards of Consultants to review and assist with the preparation of the Lubuge
and Yantan Hydropower Projects.
3.7         The second category includes seven subprojects with disbursements
of more than SDR 200,00 but less than SDR 1.0 million. These subprojects
combined several types of technical assistance, usually a combination of
consultant services and study tours,.to assist in the preparation of invest-
ment projects. For example, subproject #6 (Machine Tools Project Preparation)
disbursed SDR 903,328 to cover the expenses of consultants to carry out
feasibility studies for modernization of the facilities of the Shanghai
Machine Tools Corporation and related study tours. Similarly, under sub-
project #17 (Xinsha Terminal in Huangpu Port) TCC funds were utilized for
hiring consultants and sending study tours to assist with the preparation of
bidding documents for the Huangpu Port Project (Credit 1845-CHA/Loan 2877-
CiA). Subproject t8 (Transmission Project Preparation) disbursed SDR 566,520
to finance consultants, study tours and other training to improve the design,
construction, and operations and maintenance of transmission lines and
substations. Likewise, SDR 774,246 were disbursed under subproject #22
(Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Project Preparation) to cover the expenses of
consultants, study tours and other training carried out during the preparation
of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2775-CiA).
3.8         The third category consists of two large subprojects, each with
disbursements of over SDR 1.5 million, which primarily financed consultant
services, combined with small study tours and other training, to assist with
preparation of large Bank-financed investment projects in those sectors.
Almost the entire amount of SDR 1,634,231 disbursed for subproject t18
(Beilungang Thermal Project Preparation) was used to cover consultant expenses
for feasibility studies, project engineering and detailed design, and prepara-
tion of bidding documents. An additional US$10,000 was used to finance a
study tour and other training for the design and selection of equipment. This
subproject assisted in the preparation of the Beilungang Thermal Power Project
(Loan 2706-CHA), signed on May 29, 1986 for US$225.0 million. The other large
subproject was the Phosphate Project Preparation (subproject 116) which
assisted in the preparation of the Phosphate Project (Loan 2958-CHA). TCC
funds for the subproject were provided for consultancy services for finaliza-
tion of the feasibility studies for the three subprojects financed under the
main investment project. In addition, a study tour for mining was also
carried out. The total disbursement under subproject f16 was SDR 1,631,549.



3.9         Institution Buildina Obiective.  A second objective of the project
was to provide institution building assistance to strengthen institutions
involved in Bank operations. 'While many institution-building activities are
already financed under Bank and IDA project operations, there are other
important activities which fall outside the scope of these projects. These
include assistance to core agencies such as the Audit Administration
(subproject #12) to strengthen its capacity to conduct audits of Bank-financed
projects.  In addition other types of- kigh priority subprojects were also
approved to strengthen the Government's capacity to select and prepare
investment projects. Thus for example, subprojects tl3 and 114 provided funds
for training in how to prepare port master plans and control systems for
development of China's ports. Finally, TCC funds allocated for subproject t24
were utilized to purchase composing and printing equipment for the Economic
and Financial Publishing House in Beijing.
3.10        Sectoral Breakdown of Subproiects.  Most of the subprojects
financed were in the commercially oriented sectors of energy, transport and
industry (see Table 7). Several agriculture and area development subprojects
were also approved. The transport sector accounted for the largest number of
subprojects. Nine subprojects in the transport disbursed SDR 1,115,995
(14.42); six subprojects in the energy sector disbursed SDR 3,134,307 (40.4S);
and six agriculture and area development subprojects disbursed SDR 237,861
(3.1S). Other sectors covered included two subprojects in the health sector
which disbursed SDR 284.345 (3.7Z) and four subprojects in the industry sector
with total disbursements of SDR 2,740,995 (35.3?).
TYDes of Technical Assistance Financed Under TCC
3.11        It was estimated at appraisal that about 702 of the project funds
would finance consultant services and the remaining 30? would finance study
tours, other training and equipment. Of the total disbursements of SDR 8.6
million as of March 31, 1989, the expenses on foreign consultants amounted to
approximately SDR 7.0 million, accounting for about 802 of project funds.
Study tours accounted for another 102 of project funds; training components
accounted for slightly less than SZ of project funds while computers and other
equipment accounted for slightly over 52 of project funds. Approximately 942
of the funds for equipment was utilized to purchase computers and editing
equipment for the Economic and Finance Publishing House.
3.12        Consultants.  Foreign consultants were utilized in 14 subprojects.
The terms of reference of consultants generally included services to: (a)
prepare and review feasibility studies; (b) assist with project engineering
and detailed design; (c) review and participate in the overall design of
projects; (d) proyide advice and expertise on technical matters; and (e)
prepare bidding documents and participate in prequalifications and bid
evaluations. The selection and invitation of consultants followed the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated August
1981, and the work of the consultants was generally carried out in three
stages: (i) on-site investigation and data collection by foreign consultants,
followed by data processing and further review at the consultant's
headquarters; (ii) visit of Chinese technical personnel to consultant's



- 9 -
headquarters to review and discuss the consultant's findings; and
(iii) follow-up visit by consultants to China to review results and fi3dings.
3.13        For large consulting contracts, it proved useful for a small team
of Chinese experts to visit the home office of the consulting firm before the
consultant's report was finalized. This arrangement was used in several
subprojects, including subprojects #6, #8, #16, #18 and #22. This allowed for
timely exchange of views on proposed recommendations, and generally resulted
in an improved final report which wai more likely to be acceptable to all
parties concerned. There were other advantages as well: it we. less likely
that the final report would have to be reviewed, saving time and money; and it
was less expensive for the Chinese staff to visit the consulting firm's home
office than to have the consultants return to China at this stage.
3.14        To strengthen China's ability to prepare and implement projects,
further steps need to be taken to ensure that consultant's terms of reference
include appropriate provision for training of counterpart staff. For example,
additional man-months could be included in consultants' contracts specifically
for training of local counterpart staff. Also, in certain cases it may be
desirable to have local and foreign consultants work in combination on
specific assignments to facilitate the transfer of technology.
3.15        Study Tours.  Study tours also constituted an important activity
under the project, accounting for over lOS of the disbursed funds. The
subprojects financed under the first TCC were designed to ensure transfer of
knowledge to strengthen the line ministries' ability to select and prepare
projects.  A key part of this process was the professional study tours which
provided government officials with exposure to technologies they lack and
opportunities to visit potential suppliers and meet sources of consulting
expertise.  During the five years of project implementation. more than twenty
project entities utilized the TCC funds to send study tours and other training
groups abroad. The study tour participants were generally involved in the
technical and management work of the projects and returned to work with the
sponsoring agencies. Approximately forty study groups with over 300
participants visited more than 15 countries including Japan, India, Egypt,
Yugoslavia, U.S.A., Thailand, Singapore. France and Sweden. The majority of
the study tours were carried out to assist in the preparation of major
investment projects.
3.16        Traininz.  This component was included in seven subprojects and
accounted for about 5Z of disbursed funds. Training was usually combined with
other forms of technical assistance and was used for both project preparation
and institution building objectives. For example, subproject I8 (Transmission
Project Preparation) allocated SDR 150,000 for training Chinese staff in
project design, construction, and operation and maintenance. This was
provided in conjunction with consultant services for design optimization for
transmission lines and substations, and study tours to improve staff expertise
in design and operation of transmission lines and stations. Similarly,
subprojects #21 and 122 also combined training with consultant services and
study tours to assist with project preparation. Training components were also
included for institution-building subprojects such as subproject t12, and



- 10 -
training to strengthen the Government's capacity to select and prepare
projects was provided under subproject 114.
3.17        Eguimment.  TCC funds were utilized to procure equipment under two
subprojects. The project financed composing and editing equipment for the
Economic and Financial Publishing Mouse (subproject 124) and computers for the
Audit Administration (subproject 112).
The Manacement of Technical AssistanGe
3.18        The Role of the Borrower.  The processing, supervision and
management of the TCC was adequately carried out due in part to the close
cooperation between EFD's Project Cocrdinator and the Bank's Asia Technical
Assistance Unit. EFD acted as a clearing house for requests by the line
agencies. The Project Coordinator and his assistants had the following tasks:
(a) prepare project management regulations and subproject approval procedures:
(b) review subproject applications; (c) participate in the negotiation of
large consulting contracts and review study tours and training plans; (d)
supervise the accounts of the subprojects and make periodic settlements; (e)
manage the Special Account; and (f) coordinate communications between IDA and
the line agencies. Given the nature nf the TCC, a special accounting system
was developed using SDR. US dollar and RMB as the denominating currencies.
3.19        In the past five years, the EFD's technical assistance staff
performed well, and no major problems or delay of settlements occurred.
During this period. seven people were involved in the administration of the
TCC. In addition, EFD's technical assistance staff is also managing TCC II,
the Planning Support and Special Studies Project, UNDP Umbrella Project, and
the Japanese Grant Facility. The quality of work and management capacities
have been enhanced through training and study tours, and several staff members
have been promoted to other positions. The simple TCC application form served
as a useful instrument for processing subprojects. The average period of time
between application for TCC funds and approval of subprojects was less than
two months.  EFD's accounting system allowed for the smooth disbursement and
settlement of accounts, and audit reviews were successfully carried at the end
of each year. Financial statements were periodically submitted to the related
agencies. OP also issued a report to strengthen the management of study
tours and training abroad. Although the arrangements set in place by EFD's
first management team have served the project well, administration of the TCC
was affected by frequent personnel changes. A new Accounting Division was
established within EFD in late 1984, and the responsibility for the TCC was
shifted from the World Bank Division 11 to the Accounting Division at that
time. This was accompanied by a change in the project management personnel.
There were further changes in February 1987 when a new Project Coordinator was
appointed to administer the TCC. He was recently succeeded jy a new
Coordinator in early 1989 upon the creation of the Technical Assistance and
Training Division. These frequent changes have meant that additional time had
to be spent during Bank missions to train the new staff.
3.20        Cooperation and administrative coordination between the MOF and
the line agencies have been generally smooth, although some disagreements
emerged regarding (a) size of subprojects. (b) size of study tours financed



- 11 -
under the TCC, and (c) whether TCC funds could be utilized for preparation
activities for projects that are not included in the current World Bank
lending program. Reporting of subproject activities and results by the line
agencies to HOF has been spotty and of uneven quality. Several subprojects
did not maintain regular records and could not report or. implementation
progress. In the future. MOF will ensure the timely preparation by line
agencies of reports on individual subprojects.        1
3.21        The Role of the Bank.  Bank staff have been actively involved
during all stages of project preparation and implementation. Particularly
since this was the first project of its kind in China, considerable time was
spent during the initial supervision missions to review project guidelines and
institutional arrangements.
3.22        IDA SuDervision.  The reporting procedures for individual
subprojects was complicated in that technical responsibility and day-to-day
supervision was carried out by project officers from various sector divisions
within the Region as well as other units within the Bank while the overall
project was supervised by the Technical Assistance Unit. Because each
subproject was not considered a separate project for supervision purposes, the
task fell to the Technical Assistance Unit to prepare a supervision report for
the entire project which was actually composed of 29 discrete subprojects.
Eight supervision reports for this project were prepared by the Technical
Assistance Unit during the life of the project. Although earlier supervision
reports included detailed description of the status of individual subprojects,
with the rapid increase in the comuitment of funds the TCC subprojects became
too numerous for detailed supervision by the Technical Assistance Unit. The
monitoring and reporting of ine'.vidual subprojects could be further
strengthened by emphasizing their substantive aspects in supervision reports.
M.-IOF. now having considerable experience with the Bank's procurement
procedures, should assume greater responsibility for supervision and
monitoring of procurement and contracting, and ensure that line agencies
prepare and submit subproject progress reports on a regular basis. For
project preparation subprojects, completed subproject reports and Bank
comments prepared by the task manager (and cleared with the Country Operations
Division) should suffice. For study tours and other training not connected
with project preparation, reports should be prepared by the relevant line
agency at the completion of the activity and submitted to IDA.
Proiect Relationships
3.24        The relationship between the Bank and the Government was generally
good and staff of both IDA and MOF were generally in accord with the actions
needed to implement the TCC. Since this was the first TCC project in China,
coordination between IDA and Government was particularly close during the
early years of the project. The relat.onship between MOF and the line
ministries was also generally good although some disagreements emerged between
HOF and some agencies regarding the nature and size of subprojects.



- 12 -
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
Follow-up Investments
4.1         The primary result of the TCC was the preparation of investment
projects for financing by the Bank or IDA. The subprojects under the project
generally achieved this objective by leading to Bank/IDA follow-up
investments. The 24 uproject preparation' subprojects with total disbursements
of about US$8.0 million equivalent resulted in the preparation of 21 Bank or
IDA-financed investment projects for-a total follow-up investment of over
US$2.1 billion. For example, the largest subproject funded by the TCC
(subproject #18, Beilungang Thermal Power Project Preparation) disbursed
US$1.5 million equivalent to assist in the preparation of an investment
project supported by a Bank-financed loan if US$225.0 million. The 21 follow-
up investments projects included 1l loans approved by the Bank for a total
investment of US$1.5 billion and six IDA credits for US$600 million. In
addition, four other follow-up projects were financed by both Bank and IDA.
Imnact on Human Resource Develonment
4.2         Subproject activities under the TCC were designed to ensure
transfer of knowledge to strengthen the line ministries, ability to select and
prepare projects. The Chinese have worked closely with Bank staff and foreign
consultants provided under the TCC to design subprojects so that they could
learn as much as possible from the expatriates. Substantial transfer of
knowledge was achieved through on-the-job training provided by foreign
consultants, study tours, seminars and other impromptu lectures. The study
tours and other training have contributed to significant improvements in the
quality of project personnel, and several trained suaff have assumed key
positions in project management and technical operations.
Impact on Technological Environment
4.3         The TCC subprojects enhanced the ability of the local agencies to
select and prepare projects for external financing. As a result of the
project, line agencies have developed the capacity to carry out various
technical and management activities associated with the preparation of an
investment project. These include the significant improvements in the ability
of line agencies to prepare feasibility studies and detailed design, prepare
bidding documents for civil works and equipment, and carry out civil works and
detailed engineering, although substantial inputs for these tasks continued to
be provided by foreign experts.
Impact on National/Local Institutions
4.4         The project guidelines and institutional arrangements set in place
under the TCC, along with study tours and training of the TCC staff, have
enhanced the accounting capacity of MOP to administer technical assistance in
general and freestanding technical assistance projects in particular.
Subprojects for project preparation not only resulted in viable investment
projects, but also strengthened the capacity of the Chinese agencies involved
to prepare future investment projects. Unlike in some other countries, in
China the foreign consultants did not prepare full feasibility studies, and



_ 63 -
they were not given the responsibility for project design. Rather, the
consultants assisted with the preparation of feasibility studies and assisted
with the preparation of the project design. By retaining the main
responsibility for these tasks themselves the Chinese officials learned more
from the foreign consultants than they would have otherwise. Subproject
activities have also contributed to the strengthening of core agencies
involved in Bank operations such as the Audit Administration.



-14 -A-
Page I of 30
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1412-CRA)
Subproject Description and Performance
Subproiect No. 1
Title:                  Dalian Bulk Grain Terminal
Implementing Atency:   Ministry of Communications
Date of Application:   January 10, 1984
Date of Approval:       January 24, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 144,000
Disbursement:           SDR 83,722
Descriptions
Consultants to review the design of the silo and grain terminal at
Dalian, and to assist with specifications for preparation of tender documents.
Visit of four Chinese officials to Holland to review design.
Implementation:
This first subproject was approved on January 2, 1984, and the
official allocation of funds was made on February 17, 1984. Contract
negotiations went smoothly and the contract was signed with GEM Consultants
(Netherlands) on February 9, 1974. The consulting team arrived in China in
mid-March 1984.
Follow-up Activiies:
None
Evaluationt
The consultants worked closely with the staff of the Beijing Water
Transport Planning and Design Institute, completed their review of the design
and submitted their report to the agency. MOC reported satisfaction with the
work of the consultants. The technical assistance provided transfer of
technology to the Chinese. However, since the project was subsequently
dropped from the Bank's lending program, assistance with preparation of
bidding documents was not carried out. Savings of about $75,000 was
transferred to the unallocated TCC funds to be,reallocated to other projects.



ANNEX
- 15-                        Page 2 of 30
.ubproject No. 2
Titles                  Karamay Petroleum Project Preparation
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Petroleum Industry
Date of A&plication;   January 12, 1984 -
bate of Ahprovala       February 21, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 192,000
Disbursement:           Nil
Descriptions
(a)  Consultants for heavy oil suudy ($50,000)
(b) Heavy oil study tour ($70,000)
tc) Instruments for heavy oil study ($10,000)
(d) Exploration and development of reservoirs study tour ($70,000)
Tmplementation:
The two study tours (activities b and d) were carried out in late
1984. The Ministry vf Petroleum Industry (MOPI) proposed to send larger
groups than originally foreseen, but MOF did not agree. Subsequently, MOPI
sent larger groups entirely financed from its own resources. A third study
tour was financed by UNDP. Accordingly, the TCC funds allocated for the two
study tours were never utilized. The consultants were not hired and the
measuring instruments never purchased.
Follow-uV Activities:
None
Evaluation:
The subproject was cancelled on July 24, 1985 and the amount of SDR
192,000 allocated to the subproject was returned to the unallocated category
of TCC funds. The reasons why the study tours were not financed from the TCC
are described above. The number of participants on each study- tour was often
an issue under TCC. In this case HOF and MOPI could not reach agzeement. The
consultants were never hired and the equipment not purchased at least in part
because of the lack of familiarity of both MOPI and MOF with the procedures to
be followed by MOPI to hire consultants and procure equipment.



- t6 -                     ANNEX
Page 3 of 30
Subproiect No. 3
Title:                 Rural Health and Medical Education Project Preparation
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Public Health
Date of APp91cation:   February 8, 1984
Date of Approval:      March 2, 1984 -
Allocation:            SDR 202,000
Disbursement:          SDR 172,891
Description:
(a)  Equipment procurement study tour ($80,000)
(b)  Epidemiology study tour ($18,000)
(c)  Management of rural health study tour ($60.000)
(d)  Center of Health Planning and Statistics study tour ($35,000)
(e)  Epidemiology management study tour ($35,000)
Implementation:
(a) A group of 7 participants visited France, Japan and U.S.A. to
study how to equip hospitals and laboratories, and how to use and manage the
equipment. They acquired good knowledge of world markets and manufacturing
companies, and utilized this knowledge in the analysis of bidding documents
for equipment procurement; (b) A group visited the Atlanta Center for Disease
Control to learn about its Epidemiology Intelligence Service (EIS) course.
The Ministry has adapted its teaching method to that of the American Center
which emphasizes practical training in the anti-epidemic stations. and entails
closer supervision between trainees and supervisors; (c) A group visited
India, Yugoslavia and Egypt to study rural health programs, and management of
rural health programs at the national, provincial and county levels; (d) The
study tour group visited the Institute of Statistics in Finland. Because the
study tour was carried after the effectiveness of the loan for the health
project, it was financed from the health project's revolving fund rather than
from the TCC. The remaining balance of SDR 38,929 for this subproject was
cancelled and returned to the unallocated portion of the TCC.
Follow-up Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project (Credit 1472-CHA) approved May 8, 1984 for US$85.0
million equivalent.
Evaluation:
The subproject achieved its stated objectives. All the study tours
were carried out and the subproject assisted in the preparation of the main
investment project.



- 17 -                     AN=
Page 4 of 30
Suboro1ect No. 4
Titles                 Water Supply Project Preparation
Implementint Agency:   Central Patriotic &,. .th Campaign Committee
Date of Applicatic4i:  April 17. 1984
Date of Approval:      April 3, 1984 -
Allocations            SDR 131.450
Disbursement:          SDR 111.454
Description:
(a) Personnel management study tour
(b) Project management study tour
(c) Short-term work with the World Bank
(d) Equipmenr procurement study tour
Implementation:
(a) A 6-member delegation management and financial staff visited
Canada. Brazil and U.S.A. to review methods of strengthening project
management capabilities: (b) A 4-member delegation of techaical staff visited
W. Gerany and U.S.A. to prepare training programs on rural water development
and to set up national training centers. The group learned how to conduct
workshops and seminars and gained an overall appreciation of the importance of
human resources development; (c) Two senior advisers sent to the Bank studied
Bank's project policies and procedures, and made field visits to water works
and water towers; (d) The study tour visited factories and corporations in
Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong, and studied how to prepare bidding documents
and package various items.
Follow-up Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Rural Water
Supply (Credit 1578-CRA). approved on April 11. 1985 for US$80.0 million
equivalent.
Evaluation:
The subproject achieved its objectives. All the study tours were
completed. The subproject assisted in preparing the main investment project.



18 -                    ANNEX
Page 5 of 30
Suburolect No. 5
Titlot                 Motorway from Beijing to Tanggu via Tianjin
Implesentinu  A&encys   )inistry of Communications
Date of #oplLcation:
Date of Aporovals      April 23, 1984    -
Allocations            SDR 50,000
Disbursement:          SDB. 41.064
Descriptiont
(a) Consultants to assist with project uesign. preparation of bidding
documents and in-country training;
(b) Study tour for project preparation
Imlementation:
The study tour was successfully carried out.  It was cofinanced by
Sweden and France where a group of 12 MOC officials spent 40 days in August-
September 1984. The group studied: (i) road conditions; (ii) collection of
funds for road construction; (iii) system of highway administration: and (iv)
collection of tolls. The first component for project design was not financed
from the TCC.
Follow-ua Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of Bank-financed
Bei-Tian-Tang Expressway Project (Ln. 2811/Cere. 1792-CRA). approved on
April 12, 1987 for a total of US$150.0 million equivalent.
Evaluation:
The subproject assisted in preparing the main investment project to
a moderate extent through the carrying out of the study tours to Sweden and
France.



-19 -                       ANNEX
Page 6 of 30
Subproiect No. 6
Titles                 Machine Tools Project Preparation
Implementint ALencytThe First Bureau of Shanghai Mechanical and Electrical
Industries
Date of Application:   April 9, 1984
Date of Aporoval:      May 23, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 930,000
Disbursement:           SDR 903.328
Description:
(a) Feasibility study for modernization of Shanghai Machine Tools
Corporation (SMTC)
(b) Feasibility study for modernization of Shanghai Machine Tool Works
(514W)
(c) Feasibility study for modernization of foundries
(d) Metalcutting machines study tour.
(e) Metal forming machines study tour
(f) Foundries study tour
(g) SMTV study tour
Implementation:
As was expected, the cost of the three consulting contracts and the
first study tour exceeded the original TCC allocation. A supplemental
allocation of SDR 173,000 was approved April 1, 1985. The firms selected
were: Ingersoll Engineers (USA), Foundry Management and Design (FMD) Company
(UK), and Roland Berger & Partner (FRG). Work started in January 1985 and was
scheduled to be completed by June 1985. The consultants made two visits to
Shanghai, and a delegation from Shanghai visited Ingersoll to review the
findings and analysis of the consultants prior to the preparation of the final
report. The visit was deemed to be useful and similar visits to Roland Berger
and FMD were undertaken with Government resources. A second supplemental
allocation for SDR 84,000 was approved December 19, 1986 to cover the cost of
consultants to assist with preparation of bidding documents. The First Bureau
indicated that they were satisfied with the work of the consul;..aIts, and noted
the close collaboration between local and foreign consultants.
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the IBRD-financed
Machine Tools Project (Loan 2874-CHA) for US$100.0 million approved March 3,
1987.
Evaluation:
The subproject completed its objectives and assisted in the
preparation of the investment project.



- 20-                       ANNEX
Page 7 of 30
Suboroject No. 7
Ti_-le:                 Special Board of Consultants
Implementing AgencZ:   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
Date of Apglication:   May 30, 1984
Date of Approval:       June 12, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 220,000
Disbursement:           SDR 115,997
Description:
The Special Board of Consultants was hired by the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) and financed in part from TCC for the
Lubuge Hydropower Project. Special boards of consultants are required for
power projects financed by the Bank involving major dams.  The main functions
of the Special Board were to: (a) review the concept and dam design at an
early stage of design and during final-engineering and construction, and (b)
carry out periodic inspections of the dam after construction.
Implementation:
Aside from the one member financed from TCC funds, additional
funding was also provided by ADAB (2 members) and CIDA (1 member).  The
Special Board met on several occasions both in China and abroad, and made
several visits to the project site.
Follow-up Activities:
The Lubuge Hydroelectric Power Project (Loan 2382-CHA) was approved
on February 21, 1984 for US$145.4 million.
Evaluation:
MWREP expressed its satisfaction with thf work of the Special Board
and noted that the Board had made several useful recommendations. For
example, the Special Board's assurance that the limestone available near the
Lubuge Project site was a satisfactory construction material gave the Chinese
the confidence to use it, resulting in considerable savings. This Special
Board of Consultants was successful in carrying out its work.



- 21 -
ANNEX
Page 8 of 30
Subproiect No. 8
Title:                  Transmission Project Preparation
Imvlementint Agency:   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
Date of ApplAcation:   May 30, 1984
Date of Approval:       June 12, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 590,000
Disbursement:           SDR 566,520
Description:
(a) Consultancy services for design optimization for transmission lines
and substations
(b) Consultancy services for preparation of bidding documents
(c) Training in project design, construction, and operation and
maintenance
(d) Study tour to improve staff expertise in design, construction. and
operation and maintenance of'500 RV lines and substations, and in
selection of equipment.
Implementation:
Components (a), (b) and (c) were carried out by two consulting
firms. The contract with Gilbert Commonwealth (USA) was signed in December
1984 and the contract with BC Hydro (Canada) was signed in April 1985. Work
carried out by Gilbert Comuonwealth (GC) included: (i) project management
assistance. (ii) review of original design parameters, (iii) review of
specifications. (iv) optimization of substation design, (v) training of East
China Power Design Institute (EPDCI) staff, and (vi) review of substation
design. Five officials from EPDCI also visited GC offices in USA. GC
completed its work by end CY85. Work undertaken by BC Hydra included: (i)
-   review of agreement with an Italian firm for design of towers, (ii)
preparation of procurement documents, and (ii) assistance with project
management. BC Hydro completed its work by mid-1986.EPDCI reported that the
consultants' performance was satisfactory and, contrary to earlier forecasts,
there were no cost overruns.
The study tour delegation visited Canada, USA and Japan. The group
studied design of transmission design and investigated which firms should be
selected to assist with the designs. The study tour was deemed successful and
the principal results were: (i) obtaining technical standards and designs not
available in China- (ii) as a result of the tour decisions have been made on
types of equipment to be used in the oroject; and (iii) study of actual
construction. Upon return to China, the findings of the study tour were
disseminated to other staff through seminars, lectures, translation of
selected documents, and the preparation of a study tour report.



- 22 -
ANNE5X
Page 9 of 30
Follow-ug Activities:
The subproject assisted with the preparation of the Second Power Project
(Loan 2493-CH) wihich was approved on February 19, 1988 for US$117.0 million.
Evaluation:
The subproject successfully completed its stated objectives.



- 23 -                      ANNA
Page 10 of 30
Subproiect No. 9
Title:                  Forestry Project Preparation
implementing Agency:   Ministry of Forestry
Date of Applications   December 23, 1983
Date of Approval:       July 20, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 86,000
Disbursement:           SDR 42,072
Description:
(a) Forest management study tour
(b) Study tour to review modern systems and management of forestry
research and extension
Implementation:
A group of 7 officials visited Canada and USA in late 1985 for about
three weeks. The principal objective of the tour was to study methods to
improve the design and management of state forest farms in China.
A supplemental allocation to the subproject of SDR 20,000 was
approved on January 11, 1985 to finance a forest research study tour to
improve the management of forest research institutions in China.
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the IDA-financed
Forestry Development Project (Credit 1605-CIA) which was approved on June 11,
1985 for US$47.3 million equivalent.
Evaluation:
Both components of thi subproject were successfully completed. The
subproject contributed to the preparation of the main investment credit.



- 24 -
Page 11 of 30
Subproject No. 10
Titlet                 Second Railway Project Preparation
Implementint Atenc,:   Ministry of Railways
Date of Applications  July 3, 1984
Date of Approval:      July 20, 1984
Allocations            SDR 149,000
Disbursementt          SDR 95.136
DescriPtion:
(a) Study tour for locomotives and rolling stock
(b) Study tour for passenger cars
(c) Study tour for railway management
Implementation:
(a) A group of 9 members visited several testing laboratories in the
U.S. and the returning group prepared feasibility studies for the
establishment of 2 vibration testing laboratories. The Ministry of Railways
(MOR) considered the tour successful. One of the benefits was that the
differences of opinion which existed with the Bank on the testing center for
locomotives and rolling stock disappeared. The plans for the testing stations
were compl-ted and incorporated many ideas acquired during the study tour.
(b) The second study tour went to India, France and W. Germany in
January 1985. This study tour was also successful. Among the major benefits
cited by KOR were: (i) assistance with evaluation of bid documents; (ii)
introduction of new equipment to China; (iii) lmproved design of passenger
coaches; (iv) development of guidelines for new generation of passenger
coaches; (v) replacement of wood by fibre glass and plastic; and (vi)
introduction of computers.
(c) The study tour visited France, Romania and Yugoslavia in late
1984 to learn about management procedures in order to improve the management
and economic efticiency of the railway system.
Follow-up Activities:
The study tours financed by the subproject provided assistance in
the preparation of the Bank-financed Second Railway Project (Loan 2540-CHA)
for US$235.0 million, approved on May 14, 1985.
Evaluation:
The subproject activities were satisfactorily completed. KOR noted
that both tours were successful and resulted in namerous benefits to the
agency.



- 25 -
ANNEX
Page 12 of 30
S'abproiect No. 11
Title:                  Seeds Project Preparation
Implementing AgencYzMinistry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
Date of Application:   July 3, 1984
Date of Approval:       July 24, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 79,000
Disbursement:           SDR 70,026
Description:
(a)  Study tour on selecting seeds processing machinery - North American
Group
(b) Study tour on selecting seeds processing machinery - Europe Group
Implementation:
Both study tours were carried out as planned. The agency termed the
tours *very useful' and noted the careful selection of the study tour
participants. A group of 8 officials from the State Farm Bureau visited
Canada, U.S.A. and Japan from October through December 1984. The Bank and the
American Seed Trade Association arranged the visit. The purpose of the tour
was to make a selection of seed processing equipment to be procured under a
Bank loan. The estimated cost of the equipment was US$20.0 million. A,_-ther
group of 8 officials visited Switzerland, Italy, Denmark and W. Germany for
the same purpose in late 1984. Bidding docuaents were prepared by the
returning groups with the assistance of-a Bank specialist. The agency
provided the Bank supervision mission with copies of detailed reports of the
study tour results in Chinese.
Follow-up Activitiesi
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the IDA-financed
Credit 1577-CHA for the Seeds Project. The project was approved on April 11,
1985 for US$40.0 million.
Evaluation:
The subproject achieved its objectives. As a result of the study
tours, the Chinese were able to draw up the equipment lists for financing
under the Seeds Project.



- 26 -
ANNEX
Page 13 of 30
Subproject No. 12
Title:                 Assistance to Audit Administration
Implementing Agency:   Audit Administration of China
Date of Application:   July 1984
Date of Avorovalt      August 17, 1984
Allocations            SDR 195,000
Disbursement:          SDR 161,780
Description:
The objective Was to strengthen the Audit Administration (AA) and
itr subsidiaries; in particular to strengthen AA's capacity to conduct audits
of Bank supported projects. TCC funds were utilized to cover salaries and
travel expenses of foreign experts.
Tmplementationt
The subproject was approved August 17, 1984 to finance the cost of a
consultant to prepare, conduct and follow-up on an auditing seminar scheduled
for early 1985 in Beijing. The preparation visit of the lead consultant was
carried out in August 1984. The seminar was carried out from March 11-
April 5, 198S and termed successful. AA informed the Bank of the three
principal results: (i) participants learned about the theory and practice of
auditing rules and procedures; (ii) training materials for the seminar can be
utilized for other seminars; and (iii) participants are now able to take
responsibility for joint venture audits. The audit of 13 Bank projects was
subsequently undertaken and a follow up visit by the consultants to China to
reviewed the audits, which were determined to be of a good standard. A second
audit seminar was approved on June 20, 1986 and was subsequently carried out.
Follow-up Activitiess
The Bank continues to maintain an active dialogue with AA regarding
audit of Bank projects, and other auditing matters more generally.
Evaluation:
The subproject completed its objective of strengthening the
institutional capacity of AA.



- 27 -
ANNEX
Page 14 of 30
Subproject No. 13
Title:                 Port Master Planning, Feasibility Study Seminar
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Communications
Date of ADplication:   August 10, 1984
Dateof Approval:        September 10, 1984
Allocation:             SDR 197,000
Disbursemnt:            SDB 87,141
Description:
The objective was to train high level persounel engaged in port
master planning. A two-stage program was planneds ti) a Port Master Planning
Seminar held in China on the process, content and method of port planning and
feasibility study, followed bj (ii) on-site investigation of ports in other
countries. Subjects covered included port master plan preparation.
optimization of feasibility studies, port -esign and port management.
IMplementation:
The Government signed a contract with Technecon Ltd. (U.K.) in March
1985. Technecon conducted a seminar and organized a study tour. The seminar
for 50 participants, all of whom are engaged in port planning, covered port
master plan preparation, optimization of feasibility studies, port design and
management.  Following the seminar 19 selected participants visited three
ports abroad each with different characteristics. Ports visited were in
Halaysia (old-rebuilt), Singapore (new) and Brisbane (bulk).
Follow-up Activities:
The Bank continues to be actively involved in the ports subsector.
through sector work and project lending. While this subproject did not lead
to the preparation of any specific investment project, it strengthened the
capability of the participants representing several major ports in China to
develop sound investment projects.
Evaluation:
The subproject completed its objectives.



- 28 -
ANNEX
Page 15 of 30
Subgroiect No. 14
Titlet                  Port Termina. Control System Training
Implementing As ncv:   Ministry of Conmunications (MOC)
Date of Apolication:   August 10. 1984   -
Date of Approvals       September 10. 1984
Allocations             SDR 120,000
Disbursement:           SDR 95,257
Descriptions
Invitation of foreign experts to visit China for twc months to train
twenty Chinese design engineers on the design of automatic control systems of
coal container and bulk grain terminals, followed by a visit abroad for one
month by eight Chinese engineers to investigate the operations of control
systems.
Implementation:
The MC contracted Norconsult (Norway) to conduct the seminar and
make arrangements for the study tour, while responsibility on the Chinese side
was given to Harbour Engineering No. 83 in Shanghai. The seminar was
conducted in Shanghai in February-March 1985 by three experts from Norconsult.
HOC reported that the seminar produced good results--that the participants can
now design automatic control systems. Eight of the 20 seminar participants
were_selected to participate in the study tour to W. Germany, Netherlands,
unE-d Kingdom and France.
Follow-up Activities:
The Bank continues to be actively involved in the ports subsector,
through sector work and project lending.
Evaluation:
The subproject completed its objectives.



29 -
ANNEX
Page 16 of 30
Subproject .io. 1U
Titles                 Fertilizer Project Preparation
Implementing Agencys   Ministry of Chemical Industries (MOCX)
Date of Application:   August 1984
Date of Approval:      October 9, 1984
Allocation:            SDR 354,000
Disbursement:          SDR 199,289
Descr4ption:
(a) Inspection of the ammonia/urea plant at Lazhou;
(b)  Review of the data processing needs and development of coordinated
approach for the computer facilities of the China Fertilizer
Development Center;
(c)  Assistance with the design and equipment selection of the sulfuric
acid plant;
(d)  Equipment procurement s.tudy;
(e)  Study abroad for microprocessors;
(f)  Study abroad of copper solution and propylene carbonate pumps;
(g)  Study abroad of rehabilitation and energy saving of old amonia/urea
plants.
Implementation:
(a) Two experts from Humphrey and Glasgow (U.K.) completed their on-
site investigation in China. Two options were studied: (i) save energy, and
(ii) save energy and expand the plant capacity. MOCI reported that both the
Bank's project staff and MOCI were satisfied with the work of the consultants.
(b) Topsoe (Denmark) was retained for this subproject component, and
sent one expert to China.  MOCI reported that neither the Bank's project staff
nor MOCI were satisfied with the consultant's report. They said that the
consultant covered the hardware aspects satisfactorily, but not the soft ware.
MOCI requested that Topsoe revise its report, which was subsequently done.
(c) No information was available on this component.
(d), (e), (f), (g) Study Tours: MOCI reported that all four study
tours were carried out in JunelJuly 1985.
Follow-Up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the Bank-financed
Fertilizer Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2541-CIA), approved on May 14, 1985
for US$97.0 million.
Evaluations
The subproject was successful in assisting with project preparation.



-30-                        AN
Page 17 of 30
SubDroject No. 16
Sitles                   Phosphate Project Preparation
ImXlementina Agency:    Ministry of Chemical Industries
Date of APolication:    October 1984
Date of A&Mroval:        November 13, 1984
Allocations              SDR 1,826.000
Disbursement:            SDR 1,631,549
DescriDtions
(a)  Consultancy services for finalization of feasibility study in for the
phosphate project's three subprojects (Wengfu -- greenfield, Dayukou and
Huangmailing -- rehabilitation)
(b) Study tour for mining and beneficiation
Iol1ementation:
Jacobs Engineering (USA) was selected from a short list of five firmas to
carry out the work. Two supplemental allocations were approved, raising the
total allocation for the subproject from TCC funds first to SDR 1,748,000
(October 17, 1986) and then to SDR 1,826,000 on September 21, 1987.
Follow-uo Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the three subprojects
included in the Bank financed Loan 2958-CHA approved on June 15. 1988 for
US$62.7 million and the Loan approved on May 23, 1989.
Evaluation:
This was one of the two largest subproject financed under the project. It
provided substantiLl amounts of consultant services which played an important
part in project preparation.



-31                         ANNEX
Page 18 of 30
Subprolect No. 17
Titles                  Xinsha Terminal in Huangpu Port
Implementing Agency:s  Hinistry of Comuunications
Date of Application:   December 14, 1984
Date of Approvalt       January 11, 1985  -
Allocation:             SDR 240,000
Disbursements           SDR 211,038
Description:
(a) Consultancy services of five foreign engineers to review the
preliminary design, and assist in preparing bidding documents
(b) Study tour to familiarize Chinese engineers with preparation of
bidding documents, in particular the technical specifications for
ICB of civil works
Implementation:
The contract with the Swedish and American consultants (L. Berger)
was signed May 10, 1985. The work was carried out in three phases. The first
step was the visit of the consultants to Guangzhou for one month for review of
the design. The second phase was for the Chinese experts to draft the bidding
documents together with the consultants in the consultants' home office. The
third step was for the consultants to assist with the finalization of bid
documents and with design.
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted with the preparation of the Huangpu Port
-Project (Loan 2877-CHA/Credit 1845-CHA) which was approved on October 6, 1987.
The loan amount was US$63.0 million and the credit amount was US$25.0 million
equivalent.
Evaluation:
The subproject accomplished its objectives and assisted ir the
preparation of the main investment project.



-32 -                      AW=
Page 19 of 30
Subproiect No. 18
title                 B3eilungang Thermal Project Preparation (Zheijiang
Province)
Implementint AxencZ:  MNiistry of Water Resources and Electric Power
Date of Application:   March 8, 1985
Gate of Approvals      March 20, 1985
Allocation$            SDR 1,864,000
Disbursement:          SDR 1,634,231
Description:
(a) Purchase of equipment and facilities for design vork and power
source optimization
(b)  Study tour and training for design and selection of equipment
(c) Assistance in preparation of bidding documents
(d) Assistance in project engineering and detailed design
-e) Consultation and review of feasibility report and conceptual design
(f) Preparation of detailed cost estimate
(g) Assistance in construction management, quality and progress control
Implementation:
The subproject was carried out as foreseen. See para. 3.8 of the
main text of this report for further details on this subproject.
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the Beilungang Thermal
Power Project (Loan 2965-CHA) which was approved on June 14, 1988 for US$225.0
m illion.
Evaluation%
The subproject was considered to have been successful, particularly
in terns of the improvements in the project's design.



-33 -                       AN=
Page 20 of 30
Subproiect No. 19
Title:                  Missing Links Road Project Preparation
Implementins Agency:   Ministry of Co=munications
Date of Applications
Date of Approvals       March 22, 1985
Allocations             SDR 155,000
Disbursement:           SDR 8,027
Descriptions
(a) Consultants for assistance in the compilation, review and
fi alization of ICB documents
(b)  Study tour to highway construction sites in developing countries for
loan/project management, including engineering, economic and
financial management
(c) Study tour for equipment procurement
Implementation:
Initial work was carried out by a consultant from Scott Wilson
Kirkpatrick's Hong Kong office in January 1985. The remaining work was
financed by Sweden. Three consultants from Swedish International Consultants
(SSWECO) visited China to carry out the technical assistance. Accordingly, the
utilized funds were returned to the unallocated category for use on other
subprojects.
Follow-upi Activitiess
The subproject provided limited assIstance in the preparation of the
Missing Links Road Project.
Evaluations
This subproject was not carried out as foreseen, because after its
approval a grant was made av-ailable by the Government of Sweden. Whenever
grant funds are readily available and suitable, it is the policy of the
Government that thhcse funds should be used first before the IDA TCC funds are
utilized. One consequence of this policy is that selected TCC subprojects are
not carried out as foreseen. However, the availability of grant funds is
normally known with sufficient lead time such that most TCC subprojects like
this one are dropped from consideration for TCC financing at an earlier stage.



-34 -
ANEX
Page 21 of 30
Suboroiect No. 20
Title:                 Pishihang - Chaohu Area Development Project Preparation
mDlementint Atency:
Date of Aoolications   March 19, 1985
Date of Anroval:       April 5, 1985
Allocations             SDR 14,000
Disbursements           SDR 7,052
Descriptions
Study tour to investigate the surveying and mapping, design,
planning, construction and management of a Bank-financed irrigation project in
Thailand.
Implementations                           -
The study tour group visited Thailand in May 1985 and was met by the
Bank's project staff.
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the Bank-financed
Pishihang Chaohu Area Development Project (Loan 2579-CRA/Credit 1606-CHA)
approved June 11, 1985. The loan amount was US$17.0 million and the credit
amount was US$75.0 million equivalent.
Evaluations
This subproject was considered successful by the beneficiary agency
and by IDA. While in most cases the Chinese prefer to make study tours to the
developed countries to see the latest technologies, this is an example of a
study tour which proved useful to a neighboring developing country with
conditions much more sitilar to China than in the developed countries.



- 35 -
ANEX
Page 22 of 30
Subproject No. 21
Title:                  Tianjin Port East Pier Development
ilementint Asency:   Ministry of Coummnications
Date of Applications   April 5, 1985
Date of Approvals       April 19, 1985
Allocation:             SDR 603,000
Disbursement:           SDR 493,621
Description:
Consultancy services to review the preliminary design and detailed
engineering for the East Pier Project, and to review and modify the bidding
documents for civil works and equipment needed for the project. The
consultant would advice on soft soil stabilization using the soft soil or
alternate methods. The consultant would also prepare the terms of reference
for design of the high-rise buildings and prepare tender documents for the
wastewater treatment plant and equipment.
Implementation:
The subproject was carried out with the assistance of SPECS
Consultants PTE Ltd. (Singapore).
Follow-up Activities:
The subproject assisted in the preparation of the Bank-financed
Tianjin Port Project (Loan 2689-CHA) for US$130.0 million, which was approved
on May 6, 1986.
Evaluation:
The subproject was considered successful by the Tianjin Port
Authorities and by TDA. The Tianjin authorities were particularly pleased
with the unexpected savings in construction costs, made possible by
improvements in project's design. For example, by increasing the height of
the light towers on the pier, it was possible to reduce the number of light
towers, resulting in considerable savings.



- 36 -                     ANNEX
Page 23 of 30
Subproiect No. 22
Titlet                 Shuikou Kydroelectric Power Project Preparation
Imalementing Axency:   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
Date of Application:   April 5, 1985      -
Date of Aoprovals      Hay 1, 1985
Allocation:            SDR 914,000
Disbursement:          SDR 774,246
Description:
(a) Assistance in preparation of tender documents of first stage civil
works ($100,000)
(b) Preparation of costs estimate of first stage civil works ($45,000)
(c) Purchase the necessary offices and facilities for design and
consulting work ($55,000)
(d)  Study tour of clients and ECHIDI's investigation of IECO
construction and contract management
(e) Training of clients" and ECHIDI's staff ($80,000)
(f)  Assistance in bid evaluatiou and contract negotiations of the first
stage civil works, including preparation of bid evaluation reports
and prequalification reports ($120,000)
(g)  Preparation of cost estimate of second stage civil works ($30,000)
(h)  Assistance in preparation of tender documents for second stage civil
works ($80,000)
*           (i)  Assistance in bid evaluation and contract negotiations for second
stage ($150,000)
(j)  Assistance in preparation of tender documents for purchasing
construction materials, generation units and electric equipment for
500kv switchboard ($120,000)
Implementation:
The subproject was carried out as foreseen.
Follow-up Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the .Shuikou
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2775-CiA) which was approved on Jan. 6, 1987 for
US$140.0 million.
Evaluation:
The subproject successfully achieved its objectives.



- 37 -                     ANNE
Page 24 of 30
Subproject No. 23
Titlet                 Yantan Special Board of Consultants
Implementing Agency:   Ministzy of Vater Resources and Electric Power
Date of Application:   July 31, 1985
Date of Approv l:      September 13. 1985
Allocation:            SDR 99,000
Disbursement:          SDR 94,431
Description:
TCC funds to cover costs of Special Board of Consu.tants on Yantan
Hydroelectric Project. The Board consisted of 4-S experts to review progress
of the project. The experts were from Australia, Canada. Norway and China.
Such special boards are required by the Bank for all hydroelectric power
projects which have high dams.
ImPlementations
The Yantan Special Board met four times.  At least three members
attended each meeting. All meetings were held in China and included visits to
the project site. The Board reviewed the project's design and construction.
Follow-up Activities:
The Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CRA) was approved on
May 29, 1986 for US$52.0 million.
Evaluation:
The performance of the Special Board was very satisfactory. Its
recommendations resulted in improvements in the project's design. reduction in
project costs, and a shortened construction period. It also addressed
problems that arose. For example the project site was subjected to severe
flooding in 1988, and there was an issue as to whether the structures already
conAtructed needed reinforcement. The Special Board reviewed the matter, and
determi4ned that no reinforcements were needed.



-38 -                       ANNEX
Page 25 of 30
Suburosect No. 24
Title:                 Economic and Financial Publishing House
Implementina Agency: Hinistry of Finance
Date of Application:   July 1985
Date of Aporovals      March 6, 1986
Allocation$            SDR 412,000
Disbursement:          SD! 339,958
Description:s
TCC funds utilized to purchase composing and printing equipment for
the China Economic and Financial Publishing House in Beijing.
implementation:
The equipment was procured and installed as foreseen. IDA's
supervision mission reviewed the procedure used to procure equipment and
examined the written quotations that had been received. The mission noted
that while the Bank's Guidelines had been generally followed, the Guidelines
were not fully adhered to. First, the three written quotations were requested
at different times, and second, the specifications were somewhat changed
between requests for quotations. The mission explained to the Publishing
*      House and MOP the need to adhere closely to the Bank's Guidelines.
Follow-up Activities:
None
Evaluation:
This was one of the few subprojects which was not for project
preparation. It was the only subproject which solely financed equipment to
improvelincrease the capacity of an institution. The Publishing House was
visited by several IDA supervision missions both before the subproject was
approved, and after the equipment was installed. During the last visit the
equipment was fully installed and operating.



-39 -                       ANN
Page 26 of 30
Sutorolect No. 25
Slitle                  Freshwater Fisheries Project Preparation
Tuolmutina AmencytMinistry of Agricalture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery
Date of Alicati:   June 12, 1986
Date of Aourovals      July 10, 1986
AUocatiou:              SDR 43,000
Disbursements           SDR 41,224
Descriptions
(a) Study tour to inspect fish breeding operations
(b) Study tour on fish feed processing equipment
Zaplementation:
The study tours were carried out as foreseen. The fish breeding
gzoup visited West Germany, Denmark and Japan (4.5 a/m). The fish feed
processing equipment group visited Japan (4.5 m/m).
Fallow-uo Activitiess
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Freshwater
Fisheries Project (Credit 1689-CHA) which was appfLoved on Hay 6, 1986 for
US$60.0 million equivalent.
Evaluation:
These study tours were considered to have been useful.



- 40 -
Page 27 of 30
Subvroject No. 26
Title:                 Red Soil Project Preparation
Implementing Atency:   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
Date ofApproval:       September 9, 1986
Allocation:            SDR 50,000
Disbursement:          SDR 32,953
Description:
Two study tours for selection of project equipment.
ImPlementations
The livestock study tour group visited Australia, 'the citrus study
tour group visited the USA.
Follow-up Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Red Soils Area
Development Project (Credit 1733-CHA) which was approved on September 9, 1986
for VS$40.0 million equivalent.
Evaluation:
The study tours were considered to be successful.



- 41 -
Page Zu of 30
Subproiect No. 27
Title:                  Xinjiang Area Development Project Preparation
Imulementing Axency:
Date of Applicationt   January 10, 1987
Date of Ayproval:       March 12, 1987
Allocation:             SDR 48,000
Disbursement:           SDR 44,534
Description:
Study tour for selection of machinery.
Implementation:
The study tour was carried out as foreseen.
Follow-up Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Xinjiang Area
Development Project (Credit 1764-CHA) which was approved on March 3, 1987 for
US$70.0 million equivalent.
Evaluations
The study tour was considered to have been useful, particularly
since the Xinjiang authorities were not familiar with the equipment which was
subsequently financed under the Xinjiang Project.



- 42 -ANNEX
Page 29 of 30
Subproiect No. 28
Title*                 Pharmaceuticals Project Preparation
ImDlementins AgencY:   State Pharmaceutical Administration of China (SPAC)
Date of Approvals      March 30, 1987
Allocations            SDR 73,000
Disbursement:          SDR 56,190
Descriptions
Training of the Working Group of SPAC to develop good manufacturing
practice in several areas including quality control.
Implementations
The training was carried out as-foreseen. Some of the courses were
designed for SPAC managers. Other courses were designed for trainers.
Follow-ug Activities:
This subproject assisted in the preparation of the Pharmaceuticals
Project (Loan 2943-CHA) which was approved on May 24, 1988 for US$127.0
million.
Evaluation:
The training was fully satisfactory.



-43                          ANNEX
Page 30 of 30
Subproiect No. 29
Title:                  Xiamen Port Project Preparation
Implementing Agency:   Xiamen Port Authority
Date of Applications   January 1988
Date of Apgrovals       January 19, 1988
Allocations             SDR 44,000
Disbursement:           Nil
Description:
Study tour for port personnel to visit ports in other countries with
characteristics similar to those of Xiamen.
Implementation:
This study tour is being carried out in conjunction with the
technical assistance financed by UNDP under the UNDP Umbrella Project
(CPRM861003), under which Soros Associates (USA) is reviewing the project's
feasibility study and design. It is expected that this subproject will be
transferred to TCC II, and if it is not carried out by end CY89 it would be
cancelled.
Follow-UP Activitiest
The technical assistance for preparation of this project was mainly
financed by UNDP as a 8rant and included a visit to the USA by the Xiamen Port
officials. Since TCC funds must be repaid they are used later, and in the
case of this subproject are not yet disbursed.
Evaluation:
The Xiamen Port Project was approved on December 13, 1988.



-44-
Table I
TECflCAL COOPERATION PQOJECT
(CR9II 1412-M)
PART hWO
I. Statistical Data
&plaggd IDA Credits /
Credit                                    Year of       Credit
Number          Project Title           -Approval       Amount /    Status
1664-CHA       Second Technical           1986           20.0       Ongoing
Cooperation Project
1835-CHA       Planning Support and       1987           20.7       Ongoing
Special Studies Project
lI i.e. projects in the same sector that preceded or followed this project
2/ in US$ million equivalent



_ 45 -
Table 2
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CHA)
Proiect Timetable
Date            Date            Date
Item                                     Planned          Revised         Actual
Project Brief                                                             2t/583
Issues Paper                                                              3/6/83
Decision Memorandum                                                      3116183
Appraisal Mission                                                           NA
Credit Negotiations                       7/83                              7/83
Board Approval                            9/83                           8/24/83
Credit Signature                         10/83                          10/17/83
Credit Effectiveness                     12/83                          12/31/83
Credit Closing                        12/31/87          12/31/88        12/31/88
Credit Completion                      6/30/87          12/31/88        12/31/88



- 46 -
Table 3
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CIA)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million equivalent)
IDA                    Appraisal                              Actual as Z
Fiscal Year                 Estimate              Actual          of Appraisal
1984                        0.5                 0.2                40.0Z
1965                        3.0                 1.4                46.72
1986                        6.0                 6.5               108.3Z
1987                        9.0                 8.3                92.22
1988                       10.0                 9.5                95.0?
1989                                            9.8                98.0?



- 47 -
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
CHN
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CHA)
Subiroiects Financed Under Credit 1412-CHA
Approval    Alloaction   Disbursement
Subproject No. and Title                  Date          -------SDR-------
1.  Dalian Bulk Grain Tetminal         1/24/84        144,000          83.722
2.  Karamay Petroleum Project          2/21184        192.000             NIL
Preparation
3.  Rural Health & Medical Educ         342184        202,000         172,891
Project Preparation
4.  Water Supply Project Prep.          3/3184        131,450         111,454
5.  Motorway from Beijing to Tanggu  4/23/84           50,000          41,064
6.  Machine Tools Project Prep.        5123184        930,000         903,328
7.  Special Board of Consultants       6/12/84        220,000         115,997
8.  Transmission Project Prep.         6/12/84        590,000         566,520
9.  Forestry Project Preparation       7120/84         86,000          42,072
10.  Second Railway Project Prep.       7/20/84        149,000          95,136
11.  Seeds Project Preparation          7124184         79,000          70,026
12.  Assistance to State Audit          8/17/84        195,000         161,780
Agency
13.  Port Master Planning,              9/10/84        197,000          87,141
Feasibility Study Seminar
14.  Port Terminal Control System       9/10/84        120,000          95,257
Training
15.  Ferti'izer Project Preparation   10/9/84          354,000         199.289
16.  Phosphate Project Preparation    11/13/84    1,826,000          1,631.549



- 48 -
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
Approval    Alloaction   Disbursement
Subproject No. and Title                   Date         -------SDR ------
17.  Xinsha Terminal in Huangpu          111/85        240,000          211,038
Port
18.  Beilungang Thermal Power           3/20185      1,864,000       1.634,231
Project
19.  Missing Links Road Project         3/22/85        155,000           8.027
20.  Pishihang-Chaohu Area Dev.         4/1.185         14,000            7,052
Project
21.  Tianjin Port East Pier Dev.       4/19/85         603,000         493,621
22.  Shuikou Hydrolelectric Power        5/1/85        914,000         774,246
Project
23.  Yantan Special Board              9/13/85          99,000          94,431
24.  Economic & Finance Publ. House   316/86           412,000         339,958
25.  Freshwater Fisheries Project       7/10/86         43,000          41,224
26.  Red Soil Project                   9/9/86          50.000          32,953
27.  Xinjiang Area Dev. Project        3/12/87          48,000          44,534
28.  Pharmaceuticals Project            3/30/87         73,000          56,190
29.  Xiamen Port Project               1/  /88          44,000             NIL
Total% 29 Subprojects                       8,192,000       7,759,526



- 49 -
-                                                Table 5
Page 1 of 2
Calm
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CHA)
Follow-up Investments Resulting from
Subproiects Financed under Credit 1412-CHA
Loan/
Follow-up Investment Proiect                                 Credit
Subproject        La/Cr                                    Approval          Amount
Number         Number    Project Title                      Date          USS m
3.            Cr. 1472    Rural Health & Medical            5/8/84            85.0
Education Project
4.            Cr. 1578    Water Supply Project             4/11l85            80.0
S.            Cr. 17921   Motorway from Beijing           5/12/87            125.0
La. 2811      to Tanggu                                        25.0
6.            La. 2784    Shanghai Machine Tool             3/3/87           100.0
Project
7.            La. 2382    Lubuge Hydroelectric            2/21184           145.4
Power Project
8.            Ln. 2493    Second Power Project            2/19/85            117.0
9.            Cr. 1605    Forestry Dev. Project           6/11/85             47.3
10.            Ln. 2540    Second Railway Project          5/14/85            235.0
11.            Cr. 1577    Seeds Project                   4/111/85            40.0
15.            Ln. 2541    Fertilizer Rehab.               5/14/85             97.0
Project
16.            Ln. 2958    Phosphate Project                6/15/88            62.7
17.            Cr. 1845    Huangpu Port Project            10/6/87             63.0
Ln. 2879                                                       25.0



- 50 -
Table 5
Page 2 Of 2
Follow-up Investment Proiect                           Credit
Subproject        Ln/Cr                                     Approval         Amount
Number         Number    Project Title                      Date           US$ m
18.            Ln. 2955    Beilungang Thermal               6114/88           235.0
Power Project
20.            Cr. 1606    Pishihang-Chaohu Area            6111185            75.0
La. 2579     Development Project                                17.0
21.            Ln. 2689    Tianjin Port Project              516186           130.0
22.            Ln. 2775    Shuikou Hydrolelectric            116/87           140.0
Power Project-
23.            La. 2767    Yantan Hydroelectric             5/29186            52.0
Project
25.            Cr. 1689    Freshwater Fisheries              516186            60.0
Project
26.            Cr. 1733    Red Soil Area Dev.                919/86            40.0
Project
27.            Cr. 1764    Xinjiang Area Dev.                313187            70.0
28.            Ln. 2943    Pharmaceuticals Project          5124188           127.0
Total:                          2,193.4



- 51. -
Table 6
CHIN
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CIA)
Sector Distribution of Subproiect
Number of        Z of         Disbursement       t of
Sector           Subprojects        Total        SDR million        Total
Agriculture              6            20.72         237,861           3.1Z
Transport                9           31.02        1,115,995          14.4Z
Health                   2             6.92         284,345           3.7Z
Energy                   6           20.7Z        3,134,307.         40.4z
Industry                 4           13.8?        2,740,995          35.3Z
Other                    2             6.92         442,721           5.9t



- 52 -
Table 7
CHINA
TECHNICAL COOPEUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CiA)
Status of Covenants
In addition to IDA's standard covenants on procurement, insurance, relending and
reporting, the following specific covenants were agreed to under the project:
Credit Agreement                     Subiect                  Status
Section 3.04 (b) (ii)          Project Coordinator to         Complied
be designated
Section 5.01 (a)               Borrower's State Council      Complied
to approve Development
Credit Agreement



- 53 -
Table 8
Cain
TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CiA)
Staff Inputs
Stage of                        Planned            Revised              Final
Project Cycle                    HQ    Field        HQ    Field        HQ    Planned
Through Appraisal                4        3         -       -          4        3
Appraisal through                3        -         -       -          3        -
Board Approval
Board Approval through           2        -         -       -          2        -
Effectiveness
Supervision                     16      20         18      22         18       22
Total:                  25      23                           27       25



- 54 -
Table 9
CHINA
TECENICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1412-CIA)
Mission Data
Stage of                    Month/   No. of   Days in   Performance
Project Cycle                  Year    Persons   Field       Rating 1/    Problems
Through Appraisal              3/83        2       13           1            None
Appraisal through
Board Approval                 None
Board Approval through
Effectiveness                 10183        1       12           l            None
=    Supervision
3184       2        13           1           None
10184       2        14           1           None
6/85       1        11           1           None
6/86       1        11           1           None
3/87       1        12           1           None
10/87       2        13           1           None
6/88       2        12           1           None
1/ Performance Ratings 1 - Problem Free/Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems:
3 - Major Problems



