0REDIT NUMBER 1412 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Cooperation Project)
between
PEOPLE ' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    Q                          , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1412 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (9-         -   '7            1983, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter'called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
Ge)eral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance selected by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association pursuant to S-ection 3.01 of this Agreement;
(b) "foreign   expenditures"   means   expenditures  in   the
currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(c) "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees  to   lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) below, the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accord-
ance with allocations of the proceeds of the Credit agreed
between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.01
hereof, as such allocations may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
after the date of this Agreement in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and agreed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Except as *the Borrower and the Association may other-
wise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited
to:
(i) one hundred per cent of foreign expenditures for
(A) services rendered by consultants or consulting
firms, and (B) training programs and overseas
study tours; and
(ii)   for equipment and materials required to carry out
Sub-projects: (A) one hundred per cent of foreign
expenditures; (B) one hundred per cent of local
expenditures (ex-factory); and (C) seventy-five
per cent of local expenditures for imported items
procured locally;
provided, however, that no proceeds of the Credit shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the                0
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not


﻿-3-
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the   Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the Association   shall  reasonably  request:  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in,
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
to                Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1994, and ending September 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and eac h installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is
granted consists of the carrying out of high priority Sub-
projects selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation which are designed to assist the Borrower: (i) in the
preparation of investment projects for which Association or Bank


﻿-4-
financing has been or is expected to be requested and, in excep-
tional cases, of other investment projects; and (ii) in the
overall  development   of  its   capacity  for  preparation  and
implementation of investment projects and administration of
technical assistance.
(b) Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of.
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall submit, for each Sub-project, the following to
the Association for its approval:
(a) a detailed description of the studies and work to be
carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project, includ-
ing a time schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the
benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) the   proposed  selection  procedures,  qualifications,
terms of reference and duration of service for any consultants to
be engaged for the purposes of the proposed Sub-project;
(c) a description of the role of the department or agency
or personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution
of the proposed Sub-project and counterpart staff, if any, to be
supplied by the Borrower;
(d) a general description of the arrangements to be made
by the executing agencies for the provision of office space,
secretarial facilities, transportation and other operational
facilities required for the Sub-project to proceed efficiently;
(e) estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed
Sub-project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be
financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs (b) and
(c) of Section 3.05.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the External Finance Depart-
ment of its Ministry of Finance to ensure: (i) the effective
coordination among the departments and agencies of the Borrower
concerned in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) that, at
all times until the Closing Date, a suitably qualified officer of
such Department shall be designated to serve as Project Coordi-
nator in order to assist in achieving such coordination and shall
be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(c) The    Borrower  shall   establish   arrangements   and
procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for
supervising and directing the work of any consultants employed
for Sub-projects and reviewing the reports and recommendations of
such consultants.
Section 3.05. (a) For the purpose of carrying out each
Sub-project which requires the employment of consultants, the
Borrower shall cause its department or agency responsible for the
.execution of the Sub-project to enter into a contract with
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
the principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to facilitate the work of consultants in the


﻿-6-
performance of their services for the Project and make available
to them all information relevant to the Sub-project concerned.
(c) The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver
of any of the terms and conditions of employment of consultants
employed for any Sub-project, or the grant of any material exten-
sion of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel of such
consultants, without prior agreement between the Borrower and the
Association. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate any.
contract with such consultants.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project,
including reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect any records and docu-
ments relevant to the Projedt, including records and documents
which the consultants employed for Sub-projects shall be required
to keep for the purposes of the Project; and (iii) shall furnish,
or cause to be furnished, to the Association semi-annually all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the Sub-projects, the costs thereof, and
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to


﻿-7-
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of each Sub-project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Sub-project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) to furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.08. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make funds available out of
the proceeds of the Credit for Sub-projects on a grant basis,
except that whenever an investment is subsequently made in res-
pect of a Sub-project under paragraphs 1 (a) or 1 (c) of Schedule
.1 to this Agreement, the funds shall be repaid to the Borrower on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Without in any way rescricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, the Associatioa aLy, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the Borrower


﻿-8-
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of any
Sub-project if any of the following events shall have occurred
and be continuing:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-project;
(b) the contract referred to in Section 3.05 (a) hereof for
the employment of consultants to assist in the carrying out of
such Sub-project shall not have come into force and effect within
six months from the date of the Association's approval of such
Sub-project pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 hereof;
and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that such Sub-project can be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:           '
(a) that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved
this Agreement; and
(b) that the Project Coordinator shall have.been designated
in accordance with Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                 17, F2f3 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sectio. 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
Section          l *e following addresses are specified for the
purposes of S1zzz. 21.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Ec: i>r:
Minif: Finance
Sa--.L9
Beif
PeaIe's !.epublic of China
Cable   fress:                       Telex:
swi-=g 22486 MFPRC
For the          ::-- ion:
Ints:21s    :al Development Association
.          181-,   5:et     N.W.
Was I---     D.C. 20433
Unizer x-aes of America
Cable airess:                        Telex:
:5 2.7AE.                        440098 (ITT)
jton, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNZ.S E5    9?, the parties hereto, acting through their
representati-&e    -oaounto   duly  authorized, have    caused  this
Agreement to              in their respective names in the District
of Columbia,           States of America, as of the day and year
first above          -
?FOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
10                                           .OF2
Authorized Representative
:51vRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(IT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Criteria for Sub-project Eligibility
1.   A Sub-project shall be one of the following:
(a) a feasibility study or other technical assistance
required for preparing: (i) projects for which financ-
ing by the Association or the Bank has been or is
expected to be requested; and (ii) in exceptional
cases, other investment projects;
(b) a program to strengthen institutions in China respon-
sible for project planning and implementation includ-
ing, inter alia, training and overseas study tours;
(c) a study to provide information required for the selec-
tion of specific projects for implementation;
(d) a program for overall development of the administration
of technical assistance; or
(e) in exceptional cases, consultancy services or other
technical assistance required for the implementation of
projects of which other components are already being
financed by the Association or the Bank.
2.   A Sub-project shall be mutually agreed to be of high
priority in the Borrower's development efforts.
3.   A Sub-project shall have no equally suitable financing
available from the United Nations Development -Program or other
external financing agencies.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as .provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating theretc,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication  of  such   notice  in  order   to  provide  timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price .f other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the geirids shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of gQods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China


﻿- 12 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in China
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in China equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 13 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of .$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿-14-
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credi, Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after  its  execution  and   prior  to  the  submission  to  the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective quotations, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or.
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983.
FOR SECRETARY


