Report No. PIC5311
Project Name                          Croatia-Investment Recovery Project (
Region                                Europe and Central Asia
Sector                                Private Sector Development
Project ID                            HRPA40139
Borrower                              Private commercial Banks
Guarantor                             Republic of Croatia
Implementing Agency                   Ministry of Finance (MoF)
Mr. Ivica Smiljan
Deputy Minister
Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5
Zagreb 41000, Croatia
Date This PID Prepared                October, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date              September 1996
Projected Board Date                  November 1996
Country and Sector Background
1       Following three years of near-hyperinflation and a sharp
recession, the Croatian economy has started to show clear signs of
recovery. Largely on account of the dissolution of the former
Yugoslavia (FYR) and the war that followed its declaration of
independence, economic activity suffered a contraction of almost 30
percent of GDP between 1991-93. Building on two years of foreign
exchange accumulation and a return to fiscal balance, the
stabilization plan launched two years ago successfully combined a
series of monetary, fiscal and income policies to bring down an
average monthly inflation rate of about 28 percent to a complete
halt. This stable and more predictable domestic environment
provided the macroeconomic basis for a modest recovery of output in
1994 of about 1 percent. The resumption of growth results largely
from the remarkable dynamism of private sector activity, both by
the privatized and the newly emerging private enterprises. The
latest developments in the regional conflict and the recovery of
control of almost all of Croatian territory makes estimates of
growth in 1995 quite uncertain. Nevertheless, output is expected to
grow at about 1.5 percent, and the private sector is expected to
generate almost half of GDP by the end of this year.
2       The financial sector is still highly concentrated in a few
ailing and illiquid commercial banks, with very little
intermediation by non-bank financial institutions. Bank
intermediation has suffered severely from the prolonged period of
near-hyperinflation, as well as from years of misallocation of
funds to loss-making enterprises. A large portion of non-performing
assets has precluded commercial banks from reallocating their
portfolio to more productive uses, creating a severe credit squeeze



for sounder private enterprises. The poor financial standing of a
number of large banks and the highly inflationary environment have
resulted in excessively high real interest rates that in turn have
burdened borrowers, discouraged investment activity, and blocked
the development of instruments for medium-and long-term financial
intermediation. The latter represents perhaps the single most
compelling constraint to a conducive investment environment and to
further development of the private sector.
3       A rapid design and implementation of a reform program that
would address the microeconomic causes of the problems in the
enterprise and financial sectors is at the top of the Government
agenda. This program, elaborated with Bank assistance and to be
supported by an EFSAL, encompasses three main reform components:
(i) restructuring and privatization of public enterprises; (ii)
completion of the privatization of former socially-owned
enterprises; and (iii) rehabilitation and privatization of the
banking system. To this effect, the Government has begun to
reorganize and restructure the largest public enterprises, and to
privatize most of their assets. A comprehensive set of actions is
to be adopted to provide new momentum to the privatization process,
mainly through the development of new and the improvement of
existing privatization methods, including some form of mass
privatization. This revamped strategy is supported by key changes
in the institutional framework, mainly the creation of a new full-
fledged Ministry of Privatization and the transformation of the
current structure of the Croatian Privatization Fund, and by the
enactment of new privatization legislation.
4       At the core of the reform program is the Government's
comprehensive bank restructuring plan aimed at separating the
viable part of troubled banks by carving out their non-performing
portfolios, establishing adequate bank regulation and supervision,
and privatizing the State's direct or indirect share in commercial
banks. The objective is to place the banking system under a sound
incentive framework that will help prevent the recurrence of the
present problems, and accelerate the emergence of a modern private
banking sector more capable of assessing investments, and able to
mobilize and invest resources to a wider base of creditworthy
borrowers. If properly implemented, the bank restructuring plan
should improve market competition and enhance price flexibility-
elements that should result in lower intermediation spreads, and
lower interest rates for working capital and investment credits.
5       Strong indication already exists that the success in
stabilization and reform is starting to consolidate a more
sustained and predictable business environment, and this is
resulting in increased investments by the emerging private sector.
Economic projections suggest that in the long run Croatia should be
able to sustain growth rates of some 5 percent, with an investment
ratio that is expected to increase by about 5 percentage points by
the end of the decade to around 20 percent of GDP. To support the
investment needs of the emerging and newly privatized private
sector, access to long term funds will be critical. Nevertheless,
such funds are currently unavailable through commercial bank
- 2 -



lending. The majority of loans to the private sector are in the
form of short-term revolving working capital funds, or short-term
trade financing. This reflects, not only the short-term nature of
the funds currently mobilized by financial intermediaries and the
absence of long-term financial instruments, but also a weakness in
project identification and financial planning in both the banks and
potential good borrowers.
Objectives and description
6       The proposed project would attempt to address the weaknesses
mentioned above, and would thus: (i) supply long-term funds that
will encourage participating financial intermediaries to develop a
market of medium-and long-term financing of investment projects;
(ii) provide additional stimulus to new investments in private or
newly privatized enterprises in need of fresh capital for expansion
or restructuring; and (iii) complement the reform agenda of the
EFSAL by helping strengthen the capacity of eligible financial
intermediaries to identify viable clients, assess good investment
projects, and introduce proper credit risk differentiation in favor
of prime customers.
7       On-lending terms. The loan is expected to be in a single-
currency, lent and disbursed directly to participating eligible
financial intermediaries. The MoF has agreed to issue a Government
guarantee in favor of participating banks. Banks will charge a
premium over their cost of funds to the final borrowers; the size
of this premium will depend on the borrower's credit risk which
will depend, among other factors, on the quality of the project,
collateral arrangements, and client credit history (see below).
Loans to final borrowers could be either in foreign currency or in
local currency, with the final borrower assuming the foreign
exchange risk. Sub-loan maturities would be no less than two years,
with grace periods for principal repayment of up to one third of
the maturity of the sub-loan, up to a maximum of two years. The
sub-loans could be used to finance capital investments and could
include a component of associated working capital. Individual sub-
loans to a single borrower should be no greater that 10. of the
total loan amount to each bank.
Implementation
8       A key ingredient in the preparation of the IRP will be the
preparation of an implementation plan, and the setting up of a
Project Implementation Team (PIT) in each of the participating
financial intermediaries. The implementation plan will define: (i)
the project development objectives and responsibilities of
stakeholders at various phases of preparation and implementation;
(ii) the specific actions required to achieve the project's
objectives; and (iii) the indicative and monitorable indicators for
measuring progress of implementation. Each PIT will be staffed by
key counterparts from participating financial intermediary, and
will be in charged of the administration and monitoring of the
loan. The PIT will also include a designated counterpart from the
MoF, who will be in charged of monitoring the project
-3 -



implementation on behalf of the Government.
Sustainability
9       The project supports the development of an institutional
framework for both borrowers and lenders, that would help, over
time, to the development of long term commercial bank's loan/debt market.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
10      Previous line of credit operations in reforming economies in
the region suggest that these operations will be successful if the
design is simple, and objectives are limited and clearly defined;
the proposed project is not sector specific, and focus is on
selection of competent intermediaries.
Environmental Aspects
11      The proposed project was assessed for its environmental
impact, and classified as a "B" project, since it would ultimately
support enterprise restructuring and expansion. An environmental
assessment was not required, but assurances have been sought so
that participating commercial banks will follow sound environmental
guidelines when evaluating loan applications from final borrowers
Program Objective Categories
12      The project would contribute to the development of the
financial sector by fostering practices of long term financing, and
to the development of the private sector by providing the much
needed supply of long term funds for investment.
Contact Point:           Gerardo M. Corrochano, Task Manager.
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-3568
Fax No.: (202) 477-1692
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental aspects
The Investment Recovery project has been assigned a B category.
The project will help strengthen the capacity of eligible financial
intermediaries to identify viable clients and assess good
investment projects, including related environmental aspects.
Sub-projects to be financed by the line of credit have not been
pre-identified. Environmental screening and assessment guidelines
will be prepared and provided to all participating banks by the
World Bank as part of the Project Implementation Plan. In addition,
we are currently discussing the possibility to provide an on-site
training on the proposed environmental guidelines in association
with the UK Know-How Fund.
-5-



