Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25587
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42460; SCL-42470; SCL-42480; SCL-42490)
ON FOUR
SINGLE CURRENCY LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF AGGREGATE DEM 52 MILLION (EURO 26.6 MILLION)
TO FOUR COMMERCIAL BANKS
WITH A GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN INVESTMENT RECOVERY PROJECT
APRIL 18, 2003
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2003)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna
HRK = US$ 0.14
US$ 1 = HRK 6.96
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IRP           Investment Recovery Project
AJB           Alpe Jadran Banka d.d.
DB            Dalmatinska Banka d.d.
DEM           Deutschemark
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP           Institutional Development Plan
IFI          Intemational Financial Institution
MOF           Ministry of Finance
CNB           Croatian National Bank
PCBs         Participating Commercial Banks
PIT           Project Inplementation Team
SB            Slavonska Banka d.d.
SMEs         Small and Medium Enterprises
VB            Varazdinska Banka d.d.
Vice President:  Johannes Lynn
Country Director:   Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager:   Yasuo Izurni
Task Team Leader:    Vinod K. Goel



CROATIA
INVESTMENT RECOVERY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 10
9. Partner Comments                                                                11
10. Additional Information                                                         21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              28






Project ID: P040139                        .             Project Name: INVESTMENT RECOVERY
Tean Leader: Vinod K. Goel                               I TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: April 18. 2003
1. Project Data
Name: INVESTMENT RECOVERY                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-42460;
SCL-42470;
SCL-42480;
SCL-42490
Countrv/Department: CROATIA                                             Region. Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/02/1995                             Effective: 03/04/1998         03/17/1998
Appraisal:  10/17/1996                               MTR:
Approval:  11/18/1997                              Closing:  12/31/2001         12/31/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANKS/PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL
BANKS (4)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                         Hans Apitz
Sector Manager:      Yasuo Izumi                               Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:  Vinod K. Goel                             Gerardo M. Corrochano
ICR Primary Author:  Ekaterina Koryukin; Vinod K.
Goel
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability iHL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualhty at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
There was nv QAG rev teui' for this project.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Statement of Objectives as Defied in PAD: The main goal of this project was to promote economic
activity and private sector development in Croatia. To this end the project pursued three inter-related
objectives: (i) to provide stimulus to private sector development through the financing of new investments
in private or newly privatized enterprises in the need of fresh capital for expansion or restructuring; (ii) to
advance the Government's objective of promoting competition in the financial system by helping strengthen
the institutional capacity of Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs, borrowers of the project); and (iii) to
foster the development of a market of medium and long-term financing of investment projects.
Importance of Objectives to the Economic Development. The project supported one of the main areas
cited by the CAS, encouraging private sector-led growth by providing financial assistance to emerging and
newly privatized private sector entrepreneurs and by supporting the institutional development of eligible
Participating Commercial Banks. The support to PCBs, in tum, helped advance the Government's agenda
of financial sector reform aimed at encouraging competition and a more efficient allocation of resources by
the banking sector.
Banking Sector. Before 1993, bank intermediation in Croatia suffered from prolonged periods of
near-hyperinflation and from years of misallocation of funds to loss-making State-owned Enterprises. A
few state banks dominated the system, accounting for about 60% of the deposits and 66% of the assets of
the system. A large portion of non-performing assets precluded banks from reallocating their resources to
more productive uses. In addition, high real interest rates prevailed in the system. In late 1993, the
Government initiated a reform program to address the problems in the enterprise and financial sectors. The
reform, among other things, aimed at privatizing state owned banks and rehabilitating poorly performing
ones. As a result of these activities, by the time of Investment Recovery Project (IRP) preparation and
appraisal in 1996-1997, early gains started to emerge. Competition in the banking system had increased
(private banks accounted for 55% of the deposits and 45% of assets), and a few foreign banks had opened
branches in Croatia. Interest rates have also declined. The above reform was supported by the World
Bank financed "Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan" (EFSAL, Ln 4159-HR) which was
approved in 1997.
Industry Investments. In the early 1990s, investment in Croatia was very low (during 1992-1994 it was
20-25% of former investment levels during Yugoslav times), particularly in industry. This hampered
normal rates of replacement and upgrading of equipment causing the enterprise sector to become
technologically outdated and generally unable to maintain its existing production capacity. A survey
carried out during the preparation of IRP showed that in 1993-1995, Croatian SMEs invested an aggregate
annual average of DEM 6.7 million, mostly in equipment. Such financing was carried out mainly from
internal resources, with only one-third from credits (largely short-term). About one-third of investments
were for replacement or reconstruction, and about two-thirds for additional capacity, thereby suggesting
that these firms could be considered to be in the most dynamic segment of the SME population. For the
year 1996-1997, the enterprises surveyed indicated that they had plans to invest three times as much,
relying significantly more on credits.
The project supported the Government's agenda for private sector development in addressing the above
issues, by increasing the supply of long-term funds in the credit market to be on-lent to newly emerging or
privatized enterprises, and by fostering the institutional development of eligible PCBs. In the financial
sector, the project supported Government's agenda to create an environment that would enable increased
competition, and a market mechanism of resource mobilization and allocation of credit.
-2 -



Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The project objectives were clearly defined and were in conformity
with the country's economic program and prevailing conditions, as well as with the Bank's CAS. The
project design was simple and did not appear to place undue demands on the borrowers. The expected
results were also clearly defined. The objectives were realistic because of the commitment the PCBs and
government had shown to improving the financial intermediation system. The Government had the project
objectives among its top priorities and made efforts to improve the enviromnent for long-term lending and
business development. Among other things, it had achieved more stable economic conditions, improved
competition both at the enterprise and banking levels, adopted suitable legal frameworks for the
development of the enterprise and financial sectors, and provided freedom to banks to carry out their
business in a market-oriented way.
Assessment of Benefits and Risks. The PAD listed the project's benefits as follows: (i) funds made
available to private sector enterprises in need of capital for expansion or restructuring; indirectly this was
expected to enhance the financial condition and/or viability of private sector enterprises; (ii) enhanced
institutional capacity of PCBs which would adhere to institutional development plans; indirectly, this was
expected to bring improvements in the quality of banking services provided to private sector; and (iii)
increased availability of long-term financing; indirectly, it was expected that as PCBs improve their risk
management procedures and gain more expertise in appraising long-term investment projects, they would
be able to provide a sustainable flow of long-term financing to the private sector.
The above benefits were well defined and reflected the nature of the project. The benefits proved right in
both direct and indirect sense. PCBs improved their capacity for risk management and long-term projects
appraisals, about 250 sub-loans were made (a substantial number for a country the size of Croatia), and
repayment rates were good (over 90%). The lending capacity of the banks was therefore expanded and
highly sustainable.
The project adequately identified the main risks, which were: (i) failure of PCBs to implement new/revised
regulations and risk management procedures; (ii) failure of PCBs to introduce improvements in intemal
audit/control; and (iii) lack of sufficient demand for long-term funds by PCB customers. To mitigate these
risks, the project focused on providing incentives to PCBs to develop into sustainable financial institutions
with advanced capacity as well as to stimulate their lending for long-term investments. In hindsight, the
risk of failure of one or more PCBs should have been also evaluated during appraisal. A crisis during .the
initial stage of the project implementation and its effect on the banks could have been foreseen, and the
selection of the best PCBs could have been a mitigation measure for this risk.
3.2 Revised Objectivwe:
The project's original objectives remained unchanged throughout implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The initial selection of PCBs targeted about a dozen banks suggested by MOF that complied with the
following criteria: (i) they were already private or undertaking some form of privatization strategy; (ii) they
had not registered losses during 1993-1994; and (iii) they had at least one year of intemationally audited
financial statements. The final selection was based on candidate PCB's responsiveness to the proposed
IRP, and primarily on subsequent financial and institutional assessments. As a result of this selection
process, four PCBs received individual Loans from the World Bank for on-lending to the private sector.
The Loans were originally provided in Deutschemark (DEM). When the Euro currency was introduced in
2000, PCBs requested the Bank to convert their loans to Euros. The table below summarizes the changes
in the Loan amounts through the project life-time.
- 3 -



Original Loan  Converted Loan  Revised Loan Amount             Closing/
Amount (in DEM Amount (in Euro as of December 2002  Cancellations cancellation
Borrower           mln)           miln)           (in Euro mln)     (in Euro mln) Date
Slavonska Banka               17.3            8.8                8.8          0.0    31-Dec-02
Dalmatinska Banka             15.6             8.0                8.0         0.0    31-Dec-02
Varazdinska Banks             13.9             7.1               3.8          3.3    27-Dec-01
Alpe Jadran Banka              5.2            2.7                 1.7          1.0    21-Jul-00
Total                          52            26.6               22.3          4.3
The funds were provided to participating commercial banks under direct Loan Agreements with a
Guarantee from the Ministry of Finance of Croatia (MOF). The funds were to be on-lent to small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) for long-term investment projects with an element of working capital
financing (up to 20% of total investment originally). Percentage of allowed financing of working capital
was increased to 50% in 1999, at the request of Varazdinska Banka, to boost the demand from SMEs, but
did not affect the funds utilization significantly.
3 4 Revised Components:
While there were no major revisions of components, the project had two cancellations and early closings, as
well as an extension of closing date, resulting from individual situations in PCBs which are summarized
below:
- In 2000, an unused part of the Loan (Euro I million) to Alpe Jadran Banka (AJB) was cancelled due to
institutional problems in the bank (see paras 4.1 and 5.1 for details).
- In 2001, an unused part of the Loan (Euro 3.3 million) to Varazdinska Banka (VB) was cancelled on its
own request. VB was not proactive in placing the funds, was focused on preserving its liquidity and
intentionally taking a very conservative approach to its loan portfolio. As a result, the credit line utilization
by VB had been very low (see para 4.1).
- In 2002, given that the project started one year later then anticipated due to delays in Board approval and
later the time needed for MOF to process its Guarantee, the Loans to Slavonska Banka's (SB) and
Dalmatinska Banka's (DB) were extended by one year at request of the banks, to allow more time to utilize
the credit funds. The final closing date was changed to December 31, 2002. The extension proved
successful, and close to 100% of loan funds of these two banks were disbursed to final beneficiaries.
3.5 Quality at Entrv.:
The project has not been rated by QAG. The ICR has rated quality at entry as satisfactory. The project
design resulted from detailed background work and surveys in both the enterprise and financial sectors.
The Bank consulted closely with the Government on the objectives of the project. The project was designed
to support major tasks on the Government's agenda. The PAD provided an analysis of alternatives to the
project, with reasons for their rejection. While it did not provide much on lessons learned from previous
operations, the project design was based on successful models tested worldwide.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement oJ objective:
The project achieved its major objectives fully; achievement of outcomes was satisfactory. The most
important results of the program include: (i) new investments to private enterprises (predominantly, SMEs);
(ii) strengthened institutional capacity of PCBs; (iii) increased competition in the financial sector; and (iv)
-4 -



establishment of a sustained market for long and medium-term project finance in Croatia.
Most of the loan funds were successfully on-lent to final beneficiaries. The project also had a positive
impact on institutional building in Croatia. As a result of the project efforts, the PCBs improved their risk
management functions, intemal audit/controls, and also their capacity for long-term project finance,
including capacity for evaluating SUE investment loans and monitoring techniques. The implementation of
Institutional Development Plans (IDPs) was also successful, with most of the objectives achieved and
activities completed even though with some delays.
The Bank supervision reports have rated the project Satisfactory during the whole period of
implementation, except for the Summer of 2000, when the macro and financial situation in Croatia was
difficult and affected a number of banks (see para 5.1). The liquidity in the system was very low which in
its tum affected the enterprise sector causing a number of bankruptcies and defaults. During that period,
the Alpe Jadran Banka loan was informally suspended. AJB, in addition to systemic problems affecting all
of the banking and enterprise sector, experienced corporate problems triggered by the split between the two
major owners of the bank and followed by changes in corporate structure of the bank. During the same
period, Dalnatinska Banka experienced liquidity problems and did not on-lend. Varazdinska Banka also
focused on preserving its liquidity, but in an overcautious manner, since it did not experience major
difficulties. Slavonska Banka was the only PCB active at that time. SB was the largest PCB, newly
bought by EBRD and Hypo Bank, Austria, and operating mostly in the Slavonia region, which was actively
rebuilding after the war. SB had more flexibility in lending not having minimum restrictions on loan sizes,
which helped it to effectively place funds for small loans. In Fall 2000, the project retumed to a
Satisfactory rating, after cancellation of the AJB Loan, and with Dalmatinska Bank overcoming its
difficulties and making its first sub-loans under the IRP.
4 2 Outputs by coomponents:
About 250 long-term sub-loans were extended to private sector SMEs from the PCBs, for a total amount of
Euro 22 million. Maturities of these sub-loans ranged from of 1 to 10 years, with a grace period of zero to
two years. The size of the sub-loans ranged between the banks, with Slavonska Banka extending the
largest number of small size sub-loans (around 10,000 Euro), and Dalmatinska Bank providing the largest
sub-loan in the amount of Euro 766,938. In accordance with the Loan Agreements, PCBs were applying
market interest rates to their sub-loans. As a result, in the beginning interest rates were rather high (10% -
8%), but with improving economic conditions by the end of the project the interest rates extended to the
final beneficiaries went down to about 5.5% per annum. The share of working capital financing remained
relatively low (less then 20% of total sub-loans). PCBs gained experience in term lending under World
Bank guidelines, including project appraisal and risk management (see para 4.5). PCBs kept good
documentation for all sub-projects extended under IRP in line with their intemal and audit requirements.
Sub-loans were provided to a wide spectrum of Croatian enterprises - agricultural, pharmaceuticals,
tourism related, food establishments, medical offices, metal and wood processing, construction, wholesale
and retail operations. The widest distribution of sub-loans was shown by SB. PCBs demonstrated
creativity in seeking clients: for example, Dalmatinska Banka opened a special program to support
refurbishing of facilities along the coast to service tourist needs. Selection criteria and application
procedures were designed up front and provided to clients in brochure form. This yielded a significant
number of small sub-loans as well as supported a very important industry on the Croatian coast. DB
placed 26% (Euro 1.9 million) of its credit line to sub-loans generated by this tourism sector program.
Project implementation can be divided into two phases. During the initial period (1998-2000), lending was
very slow, due to the macro-economic and financial crisis present in Croatia. The financial stability of
- 5 -



some PCBs was at risk, and the World Bank advised against fast on-lending, but rather to follow a more
cautious approach. At the end of this phase, Alpe Jadran Banka experienced major problems and the
unused portion of its loan was cancelled. During this period, final beneficiaries were interested in 100%
working capital loans rather then long-term investments, while the Bank Loans supported working capital
financing only up to 20% of total investment (50% for VB). In addition, it was difficult for the banks to
find acceptable clients due to high default rates among small and medium-size private companies.
After 2000, project implementation improved significantly. Disbursements accelerated and interest among
the final beneficiaries increased. The PCBs gained experience in handling SME loans and, therefore, were
able to identify and attract more good quality clients. By the time the project closed in 2002, it was evident
that banks were competing for good clients and interest rates were substantially lower. Repayment rate of
final beneficiaries was very good - over 90% for all banks, except Alpe Jadran, whose collection
information is not available.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Estimated at appraisal at 12% (for on-lending projects). FRR was not calculated at the completion of the
project. The sub-project evaluations carried out by the Borrowers showed FRR of at least 11% and some
showed FRR as high as 20%. On average, actual FRR can be estimated at least as 12%.
4.5 Istitutional developmentt impact:
The project had high impact on institutional development in the banking sector. The framework for the
Institutional Development Plans was specifically developed to address the weaknesses identified during the
review of PCBs. The conceptual framework was translated into specific actions and management decisions
that had been jointly developed and agreed between the World Bank and the management of each PCB
during the appraisal and negotiations phases. The framework was therefore designed to ensure that the
recommendations of the assessment of each PCB form part of a long-term strategy, in which institutional
changes and operational improvements were properly sequenced and became an integral part of the way in
which the corporate governance of the PCB is exercised. The institutional development framework
included the following:
(i) senior management and management board must receive and require risk-based management information
on a regular basis, and must use that information to ensure that procedures are in place to safeguard assets
(including the loan portfolio) and deposits, as well as to ensure integrity of the information received;
(ii) risk management systems and procedures must be designed to support the information needs of
management;
(iii) the internal audit function must be adequately developed to ensure compliance with risk management
policies;
(iv) development of human resources must complement the risk focus of PCBs to ensure that the qualified
staff is retained, recruited, and trained.
Each PCB strove to implement its IDP yet with delays, because of the unstable economic conditions during
the first phase of the project. PCBs commented that they found the IDP exercise very useful in the
long-mn, especially the introduction of Intemal Audit functions which were later enforced by the Croatian
National Bank. Risk-based management was also introduced through IDPs and is now regularly used by
the management of Dalmatinska and Varazdinska banks. Slavonska Banka, first adopted risk-management
accounts within the IDP, but is now moving to the specific norms and procedures of Hypo Bank, Austria,
-6-



with whom it is merging. The PCBs commented that sub-project appraisal and evaluation methodology
introduced within the project was very useful, and was adopted by the credit departments. The banks are
using these new functions in their day-to-day business now, having completely overcome the initial
resistance.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outtside the control of goernment or iniplenmentmlg agency*
In 1998 - 1999, Croatia experienced a difficult macro-economic situation and distress in the financial
sector. As many as 20 financial institutions experienced various degrees of financial difficulties, and about
six small and medium sized banks were put under bankruptcy by the Croatian National Bank. Liquidity
was the biggest problem for the banking system during this period. Banks had difficulties with loan
collections, as well as realizing collateral pledges (generally loans are secured by properties, fixed assets
and stock, and banks had problems both in realizing these assets and in selling them, thus running into
liquidity problems). Among PCBs, Alpe Jadran Banka and Dalmatinska Banka were most affected and,
while the latter recovered satisfactorily, AJB collapsed. In hindsight, AJB was a weak bank from the
beginning and there are some doubts on whether it should have been selected for the project (yet, after WB
Loan was approved, it also received funding from IFC and EBRD).
Intense supervision by the Bank team and the Government helped minimize the adverse effects associated
with this crisis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government was committed to project objectives, but a number of SME financing operations with
subsidy elements remained in the country. The existence of such subsidized funding to private companies
may create distortions and cause problems for normal market-based operation of the private sector. While
this did not have major impact on the IRP implementation, SME subsidies generally delay the development
of a healthy long-term project finance system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While the financial crisis itself was beyond control, how to address the problems within each bank was
within the control of the banks themselves, as well as CNB. More attention from CNB might have helped
to avoid at least some of the problems experienced by two of the PCBs during the crisis. While one of them
(DB) demonstrated an efficient way in dealing with the problems, the other one (AJB) did not, which
resulted in bankruptcy proceeding for the bank.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no changes in project costing. At the time of project negotiations and effectiveness, the
financing provided by the World Bank was very competitive in the country. By the project closing date,
other donors and private investors had started to provide funds at competitive rates, thus increasing overall
liquidity of the system. This is one of the reasons for not planning follow up credit line operations in
Croatia, at least for the moment.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilhty rating:
Project sustainability is rated as Highly Likely, since at closing, PCBs were showing excellent progress in
their development, while enterprises, final beneficiaries under the project, register good growth results and
increased production. The beneficiaries were pleased with the experience with the IRP and collection rates
remain very good (over 90%). While only two out of the four banks reached the finish line in December
- 7 -



2002, the positive impact of the project was high for the three of them. While Varazdinska's loan was
partially cancelled, the bank successfully completed its institutional development program. AJB went into
bankruptcy in the early stage of the project and cannot be evaluated as sustainable.
The IRP built-in sustainability mechanism was to support the development of and institutional framework
of PCBs that will help to improve permanently their risk-based management processes. Over time, the
PCBs' improved risk management capacity will contribute to the development of the commercial banks'
long-term loan/debt market. Three out of the four IRP banks developed into strong financial institutions,
with appropriate organizational structure, risk monitoring mechanisms, and loan evaluation capacities.
Their loan portfolios had increased and become more diverse as well as less risky. Even though some of
the loans in their portfolios are still problematic (inherited from the old system, mostly to state-owned
enterprises), they have been for the most part restructured or written-off. The share of long-term financing
in the banks has increased substantially during the past few years and since liquidity problems seem
suppressed for the moment, banks are actively engaged with clients. The PCBs (and final beneficiaries)
had positive experience with the project, and it is highly likely that they, as well as other banks and
investors, will continue expanding long-term finance in Croatia.
During the project life time ownership of PCBs have changed in a way which will add to their long-term
sustainability:
- In 1998, Slavonska Banka had been privatized (a condition of the Loan) through sale of shares to EBRD
and Hypo Bank, Austria. By project closing date, EBRD was selling the remaining part of its Slavonska's
shares to Hypo Bank. Slavonska is almost completely integrated into the Hypo Bank system and is a part
of Hypo's consolidated financial statements. This evolution will ensure sustainability of long-term lending
functions by Slavonska also through the further improvements in capacity and procedures enforced by
Hypo.
- In 2000, Dalmatinska Bank was bought by Regenter d.o.o. (fully owned by SWR Investments Ltd,
USA). In 2002, Dalmatinska Bank, Istarska Banka and Sisacka Banka have merged into Nova Banka,
with former Dalmatinska Banka acting as head operations office for the whole structure. Nova Bank is
also a 100% shareholder of Dubrovacka Banka. Nova Banka together with Dubravacka covers with its
operations all Adriatic Coast of Croatia, thus its loan portfolio will become more diverse and the
experience gained by Dalmatinska Banka during IRP implementation will have wider effects.
- In 2000, Varazdinska Banka was acquired by Zagrebacka Banka, which in turn in Spring 2002 was
purchased by Uni Credit Bank, Italy. Varazdinska Bank is therefore transferring into a branch servicing
northern Croatia. The merger is in its initial stage and it is not clear how it will affect the structure of
Varazdinska Banka. The skills developed during the implementation of the IRP will be reinforced by new
regulations from the new owner.
Sustainability of outcomes would also depend on such factors as: economic growth; export demand; an
appropriate interest rate structure geared to loan maturities; and increased supply of term deposits, which
is, in turn, related to the interest rate structure. On the whole, it is expected that the project's impact on
term lending and investment can be sustained provided the economic environment continues to improve
(which has a high probability).
-8 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements to regular operations are not an issue for the IRP. The banks were carrying out
on-lending themselves through their Project Implementation Teams (PITs) and there are no gaps with the
closing of the current project. The funds provided under the IRP, once repaid by the final beneficiaries,
would be reused by the PCBs for long-term loans (not subject to World Bank review) until repayments to
the World Bank accrue, thus allowing the banks to continue long-term financing for a few years without
putting additional strains on their liquidity.
At this stage, there are no plans to continue credit line operations in Croatia. The banking system is rather
liquid, and other donors, including EBRD, IFC, as well as private companies/banks, are actively providing
funding to commercial banks at competitive rates.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendimg:
Bank's performance was satisfactory. During preparation of the project, the Bank identified weak points in
the PCBs and developed tools to address them through IDPs. The project drew upon existing knowledge in
the area and specifically sought for leading experts recommendations. The overall design was simple and
transparent, which helped during the implementation phase.
The design of the credit line was based on a needs survey, expressed interest of potential PCBs, and
projection for demand. The on-lending terms were discussed with PCBs at early stages of project
preparation. Selection of PCBs was carried out transparently based on a set methodology. However, in
hindsight, standards applied to PCB selection process should have been stricter and focused on banks' track
records, and thus AJB should not have been selected, as it was a weak and too small a bank to have a
meaningful impact.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance was satisfactory. The team provided timely advice to PCBs and helped to.
develop a number of tools helpful in project implementation, including guidelines for sub-project appraisal
and evaluation. Supervision missions were carried out on a regular basis (2-3 times each year), to review
financial information from PCBs and on some occasions visiting final sub-borrowers to receive clients'
feedback on the project. The project team developed a system of regular status reports to the Bank to be
prepared by the PCBs on quarterly and annual basis, including information to be reported by the Auditors
in addition to the standard annual financial statements. While these reporting requirements may have been
an added burden on the borrowers, they were a useful tool to monitor the financial situation in the banks
and credit line utilization - of particular value during the first phase of the project, when the whole financial
system was in distress.
The project team was proactive in its actions and took initiative to address problems. During the AJB
crisis, all appropriate and timely steps were taken, including consultation with the CNB and MOF,
immediate suspension of AJB's Special Account privileges, and a special technical review carried out by
the Bank mission. The project team successfully cancelled and closed this loan in time to prevent major
losses for the Guarantor. In the case of Varazdinska Banka, given lack of interest on behalf of the bank to
place project funds, the supervision team discussed and successfully carried out, in agreement with the
client, cancellation of the unused part of the loan.
7.3 Overall Bankperformanice
Overall bank performance was satisfactory. Clients were satisfied with cornmunications with the Bank
-9-



teams, however, they commented that the disbursement mechanism used by the World Bank was
cumbersome, confusing, and time consuming.
Borrower
74 Preparation:
The project was prepared jointly with the Ministry of Finance (the Guarantor) and PCBs, reflecting country
priorities, and, therefore, received support by all stakeholders. The Government appreciated its simple
design and issued a Guarantee in favor of PCBs. While in the beginning the MOF wished to control
interest rates for the sub-loans, it later agreed with the World Bank to allow PCBs to apply commercial
terms to their sub-loans, as long as they were free of any other fees, commissions and other non-interest
charges.
7.5 Governinent implementation performance:
The MOF as a Guarantor carried out its activities with diligence. The MOF was involved in monitoring
the credit line performance and acted as a partner to the World Bank team in enforcing supervision
decisions, such as the cancellation of AJB's and VB's loans. MOF was involved in the dialogue with CNB
Banking Supervision Department too, to ensure that the PCBs are in sound condition. Overall, the MOF's
relationship with the Bank can be described as highly professional.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
PCBs' staff involved in project preparation and implementation was dedicated and diligent. The quality of
sub-projects was maintained at a satisfactory level with fairly high collection rates. In terms of relationship
with the Bank team, the dialogue was open, regular status updates were provided, and PCBs were
responsive to Bank inquiries and professional in their dealings.
However, the individual PCBs' performance was mixed with Slavonska and Dalmatinska being exemplary,
Varazdinska not fully satisfactory and AJB unsatisfactory. Given that AJB situation was promptly resolved
by the Bank and that Varazdinska's Loan was cancelled at the later stage, the overall performance of PCBs
is rated as Satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory due to: (i) the Government's commitment to objectives; (ii)
good performance of the PCBs; and (iii) satisfactory project results in strengthening the financial sector
(PCBs) and enterprise sector (final beneficiaries).
8. Lessons Learned
- Previous line of credit operations in refonning economies in the region suggested that financial
intermediaries perform better when the design is simple, the objectives are limited and clearly defined, the
project is not sector specific, and the focus is on the selection of competent financial intermediaries.
- The macro-economic conditions in a country should be a major factor in considering credit line
operations. A non-conducive economic environment (as during the first phase of IRP) would represent a
major obstacle to successful credit line utilization. Under poor economic conditions, final borrowers would
not be in the position to borrow for long-term investment projects, while PCBs would not be able to carry
out effective lending at market rates without jeopardizing their financial soundness.
- The pricing mechanism should be flexible enough to handle possible variations in market conditions.
Market/commercial rates help promote healthy lending without creating distortions. Also, a commercial
approach is the most sustainable for intermediaries in the long-run.
-10-



- The commercial banks participating in credit line operations should be made familiar with the World
Bank procedures up front. This should include introduction of sub-project evaluation methodology (and
check-list), requirements to reporting and audit (including any additional reports the Bank may require),
and training in disbursement procedures. Not having appropriate preparation in these areas prior to project
signing causes unnecessary delays and frustrations by participants during the beginning of the project
implementation.
- The case of IRP showed that making PCBs fully responsible for their institutional development measures
(no funds were provided by the World Bank Loan for the implementation of IDPs) may provide better
commitment from the PCBs to implement the plans.
- Selection of PCBs should be carried out as carefully as possible and not leave any room for political and
other types of interference, to avoid problems in implementation down the road.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/lmpleynenting agency:



REPORT OF SLAVONSKA BANKA DD
FINAL UllLIZATION       30.06.2001, the extension of the utilization term
TERM:                   was later approved until 31. 12.2002
1.      AIM OF THE PROJECT
The aim of the project is encouraging of the development possibilities in the private sector, i.e. financing of the small and
medium-sized entrepreneurship by approval of long-term investment loans, by which, one should have modernize the business,
then reconstruction and expanding of the business, establishing of the new entrepreneurship activities, as well as other
development forms of economic business activity.
Small and medium-sized companies were involved in financing, all in private ownership with over 51% of paid shares, then
trades, independent agricultunsts, and new entrepreneurs (beginners).
The loan funds were approved to end loan beneficiaries for the following purposes: purchase of land, objects, business
premises, machines and equipment, economic vehicles. Apart from that the loan funds were utilized for purchase of the basic
herd, lasting plantafions in friut-growing and wine-growing, building, adaptation, modemization and reconstruction of
economic objects.
We consider the above mentioned project aims well determined, as the aimed group that is financed gained the business
growing and expanding possibilities, which influenced the development of the entire private sector in the area of Slavonia and
Baranja, which positively influenced the business of the Bank. The project has by its width enabled the companies the
expansion of business activity, beginning of new activities, i.e. production consolidation of the existing companies.
Also, the Bank has by realization of the project additionally gained on the image and it was the only Bank in the region, that
offered that kind of the loan. Also, the Bank found its interest regarding the eaming that was the consequence of the project
realization.
2.      PROJECT SUCCESS
The project success was determined by the macroeconomic situation in the country, as well as with growing competition in
banking. Since 1998, the bank crisis in Croatia continued, and it is especially obvious in Slavonia and Baranja, in which the
consequences of the war are felt additionally. The financial reconstruction of Slavonska banka was especially important for
project success, as well as the process of privatization, meaning entering of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank in the ownership structure
of the Bank, that is now the prevailing owner.
By entering of new owners in the Bank, the situation was essentially changed, and the Bank disposes of the more long-term
funds, i.e. it is able to offer wider range of its qualitative products and services.
"INVESTMENT RECOVERY PROJECT" was estimated by Slavonska banka d.d. Osijek as extremely successful, as the Bank
succeeded to utilize the whole loan funds. Also, the positive side of the project refers to the fact that in the moment of loan
funds approval, the Bank did not dispose of long-term loan funds. Therefore, the mentioned credit line in 1998 and 1999
presented one of the axes of the credit activities of the Bank, due to the favorable loan conditions.
Also, in the mentioned period and in the wider area in which the Bank operates, there were few Banks that offered qualitative
credit lines.
In 2000, 2001 and 2002 the loan activity in the placement of the mentioned credit line intensified again, and as of 30.06.2002
the last withdrawal was utilized.
If we measure the success of the credit line, we should emphasize the fact that it was significant accelerator for development of
small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the region, and that by approval the special attentional was paid both to economic
and ecologic project justifiability.
The success of the project is also justified through quality of approved investment programs, so that it was finally reached an
extremely good diversification of the credit line and 105 sub-projects were financed, to which the amounts were limited to the
amount of maximally 400.000,00 EUR.
- 12 -



3.       LINE UTILITY
Line utility manifest itself first of all through well nominated project goal that was successfully brought to its end.
Slavonska banka d.d. Osijek utilized entirely the approved line "Investment recovery project", which means that on the market
from client's side existed big demand for subject product and after our opinion the same proved to be useful for the taken aim,
the user group.
Thus, with intensive working engagement of departments being in charge, in the Bank there were 105 single sub-projects of
credit financing, out of which 55 sub-project refer to small i.e. middle entrepreneurs, 21 sub-projects refer to physical persons
that are engaged in handicrafts, 26 sub-projects refer to independent farmers and 3 sub-projects refer to private dentist's
offices.
In the major part of sub-projects was financed the modemization, the reconstruction and the extension of the business activity.
No.   Type of Industry                                           amount in EUR
I    Agriculture, hunting                                       659.423,41
2    Textile and clothing                                  -    76.745,14
3    General services                                            167.110,54
4    Chemical, petrol and plastic processing industry            587.985,66
5    Metal processing and mechanical engineering                33.176,65
6    Other industry                                              141.570,74
7    Construction industry and trade                            646.784,23
8    Wholesale and retail trade                                 3.489.762,13
9    Transport and Logistics                                    487.619,98
10   Other                                                      707.609,70
11   Real estate business                                       25.564,59
12   Private                                                    1.821.996,79
_    TOTAL                                                       8.845.349,56
The loan repayment by final borrowers can so far be evaluated as very well, too.
5 borrowers of sub-projects effected premature repayment and 3 sub-projects ended in Legal Department on doubtful and bad
claims.
We emphasize also that the Bank has given earmarked loans based on submitted client's documentation, payments were
effected directly on supplier's account, whereby max. 20% of approved loan amount could be used as working capital.
Following to the aforementioned Bank's staff service continuously executes inspection of specified purpose of utilized loan
funds.
4.      EVALUATION OF SBO IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE LINE (which actions have been taken by the Bank)
By signing the Loan contract on " Investment recovery project" between IBRD and Slavonska banka d.d. Osijek, the Bank has
taken all actions to enable the staff service that had directly to be involved into the project realization.
Besides, by Decision of Bank's Managing Board was formed an implementation team, the members of which are officers from
different departments, with the notice that during the project execution the team composition has been changed.
Basic tasks of the implementation team were Project execution inside the Bank itself, contacts with the World Bank and
preparation and submission of reports (monthly, quarterly and annual one, verified by authorized Bank's'aiditor).
Slavonska banka had opened for withdrawal purpose of funds from the World Bank a special account with Bayerische
Landesbank Girozentrale (BLG), which could be filled max. up to 1.300.000,00 DEM.
By Decision of the Managing Board were settled "Actions and procedures for candidates nomination, approval,
utilization, monitonng and reporting referring to loans from "Investment recovery project" (World Bank). This document
contents the descnption of basic actions and procedures for execution of the subject project, which Slav6nska banka executed
together with the World Bank.
- 13-



-       By project execution were applied legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia, conditions from the Loan contract
concluded between the Bank and the World Bank and supporting documents, further credit policies criterions from Slavonska
banka and other valid enactments of Slavonska banka and figures from the Brochure with conditions for loan utilization;
-       The team  prepared the Brochure "Loans from  IBRD - funds for the development of small and middle
entrepreneurship" that contained basic information about the project intended for possible applicants;
-       Based on Decision of the Managing Board, Slavonska banka d.d. Osijek announced in February 1998 in Glas
Slavonije the competition for the candidature of investment projects for loan utilization from the World Bank programme
(Investment recovery project);
-       The Bank sent monthly and quarterly reports on results of Bank's business operations and placement of subject
credit line;
-       Funds withdrawal from special account with Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale was realized after instalment
utilization on the basis of prescribed documentation;
-       Once per year the Bank engaged exterior auditors for the inspection of credit line utilization (earmarked funds use,
inspection of earmarked funds use from the special earmarked account);
5.      WORLD BANK'S ESTIMATION (behavlor, working, are there to many reports)
Documentation and implementation instructions of the project are capacious, but after our opinion they are also logical and
necessary with respect to the fact that the subject are long term investment loans.
Reports that we submitted as agreed to departments in charge of the World Bank are rather complex and demand " enough"
supporting documentation and mutual coordination as between different Bank departments as well as different dislocated
branches of the Bank.
Borrowers had certain costs with respect to the documentation volume that had to be collected for the candidature purpose for
loan funds.
Instructions from World Bank representatives have been detailed and timely.
During mutual contact employees from the World Bank expressed full readiness for help and coordination, so that it was
attempted to solve all possible problems during the project implementation.
- 14 -



REPORT OF DALMATINSKA BANKA DD
1.      Project Objectives and Description
The project objectives were as follows:(i) Provide stimulus to private sector development through financing of new investments
in private or newly privatised enterprises in need of fresh capital for expansion or restructuring. Indirectly, this is expected to
enhance the financial condition and/or viability of private sector enterprises; (ii) Support the Govenmment's objective of
promoting competition in the financial system by helping to strengthen the institutional capacity of participating commercial
banks. Indirectly, this is expected to bring improvements in the quality of banking services provided to the private sector, and
(iii) Foster the development of a market for medium and long-term financing of investment projects. Indirectly, it is expected
that, as the Bank improves its risk management procedures and gains more expertise in appraising long-term investment
projects, it will be able to provide a more sustainable source of long-term financing for the private sector. We can say that the
Project has largely achieved the set objectives.
2.      Achievement of Objectives - Implementation of Institutional Development Plan
Institutional Development Plan comprised the activities necessary for improvement of the Bank's strategic planing, managerial
reporting, IT system, intemal audit as well as the human resources. Thus, the Bank was supposed to become a modem financial
institution with clear strategy for future development, quality management of all types of risk, adequate level of IT system
development, advanced auditing methods of intemal auditors and know-how management of human resources; which was the
first step towards the realisation of the a/m objectives.
IDP was not implemented within the expected period, due to the changes in the Management Board in the summer of 1997 and
during 1998, and the banking crisis in Croatia in the late 1990s. However, already in 1998, and especially in 1999, thanks to
additional efforts put into it, and the constant co-operation with extemal consultants, the following has been achieved:
- Management of the Bank held its first meeting on strategic planning and defined the main guidelines of the future
development of the Bank.
- Written procedures for certain types of risk management have been elaborated and they became subject of constant revisions,
in order to keep up with the latest trends in the banking sector worldwide. Risk Dept. organised a 6-month training course in
assessment of the clients' creditworthiness, processing of financing requests, and monitoring of clients as a measure of
protection against risks, mtended to sales officers. Even nowadays, one type of training is used in the Risk Dept. of the Bank
for its sales officers.
- A constant supervision of managerial reports related to risk management has been introduced, which is carried out during
daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly managerial meetings. The adjusted managerial reports are controlled by the Supervisory
Board at least 4 times a year, and if necessary, even more often.
- Intemal audit was organised as an independent organisational unit, which reports directly to the Management Board. They
carry out audits of all the organisational units of the Bank, either upon request of the Management Board or the Supervisory
Board. Internal Audit pays special attention to education of its employees. They attend different seminars and professional
consultations in the country and abroad, they work with consultants and two of them specialised as intemal auditors for the
banking sector. Intemal Audit reports to the Supervisory Board on its audits at least twice a year.
- Human Resources put greatest emphasis on constant education of their employees.
The IDP helped us initiate the process of becoming a modem financial institution, following the latest trends in the banking
sector.
3.      Achievement of Objectives - Line Utility
The placement of sub-loans was aimed at realisation of the a/m objectives. The loans were placed primarily to the private
sector, small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, but also to individuals who engaged in tourism as an additional
activity. They were mostly the projects that aimed at expansion of the existing activities. The repayment was the long-term one.
Loans were placed in the maximum amount possible, but we also granted the loans in the amount of EUR 10 000 where we
found that investment advisable. Modem methods of risk supervision were applied, and our exposure was based on verified
clients' creditworthiness and the positive evaluation of the investment project.
We started utilising the funds from IRP line in 1999, and we have utilised 91,3% of them. We placed 86 sub-loans in the total
amount of EUR 7.268.013,38 trying to offer to our clients the maximum terms of repayment, mostly from 7 - 10 years.
Exceptionally, when it was required by the investment project or activity that was financed, or the amount of the loan applied
for, financing was for a shorter period, from 3 - 5 years.
- 15-



Sub-loan proceeds were utilised for the purchase of equipment, and construction or acquisition of business premises intended
for production or provision of services. But apart from the small enterprises and craftsmen, we also utilised that line to finance
the individuals who wanted to engage in tounst activities by building or fitting out the tourist apartments. From the total
amount that was utilised, 71% of funds were placed in production, out of which EUR 3,5 mio was utilised for purchase of
equipment, and EUR 1,7 mio for construction and adaptation of business plants. 26% of utilised funds, i.e. EUR 1,9 mio, were
placed with the aim of enhancing the tourist activities, i.e. for construction and fitting out of tourist apartments, restaurants,
bars, etc. The residue of funds was utilised for financing of fishing activities and provision of different services. We suppose
that these investments will have positive effects on export, especially in tourism, but also on certain aspects of import-oriented
production.
Sub-loans are approved exclusively to first-class clients, based on assessment of their creditworthiness as well as of the
investment project. We assess the existing business operations of the potential sub-loan borrower, and especially the planned
investment, to ensure that appropriate marketing, technology, finance and management requirements are met. The present and
the future cash flow of the borrower is our main preoccupation when it comes to protection against risks, and the collateral
provided by borrower is only the secondary means of protection against risks, which will hopefully never have to be activated.
We supervise the loan utilisation, from the beneficiary to the supplier, and we insist upon adequate documentation covering the
funds used in the investment. We visit our clients to follow the realisation of the investment project on-site, and we monitor the
client's overall business performance.
4.      Lessons Learned
It is our belief that all the banks should implement the Institutional Development Plan. However, we would like to point out
that a certain level of IT system development is necessary for its successful implementation.
The projects, such as IRP are very important for assurance of long-term sources for financing of investment projects in private
enterprises. The Project would have been completely realised, successfully and quickly, if there had been a greater number of
investment projects in the market that complied with terms and conditions of IRP's credit line. However, the requests and
proposals we received from the market were somewhat different. For example, we were submitted several requests for the
purchase of business premises, especially related to trade, but we could not meet them if we wanted to comply with the IRP,
which is oriented towards financing of projects related to production. Therefore, when implementing similar projects, we
propose that you take into consideration conditions such as projected debt to equity ratio, projected debt to service ratio, and
projected intemal financial rate of return, and to try and adjust them to actual requirements of economic development.
As far as the manner of disbursement of the loan is concerned, we believe that it would be necessary to consider the
possibilities of its simplification. First of all, there is the question of the special account, which in the beginning caused
additional costs related to the international bank where we have opened it. We think that it is enough that the borrowing bank
manages in its books the special account, meaning the account through which IBRD funds are being disbursed and given for
utilisation to the ultimate borrowers. Namely, the balance of the special account is always 0 because on the same day when the
funds are approved by IBRD, we pay them to our clients. Disbursement of funds also requires elaboration of written application
and its delivery to IBRD via DHL, which is also an additional cost and the waste of time, so that the disbursement procedure
often lasts up to even 15 days. It would be useful to consider some kind of electronic communication (SWIFT, e-mail, etc.)
between the Bank and the PCBs. If necessary, written forms can be sent later.
We noticed that the Project prescribed different types of reporting and auditing, which represents additional cost for PCBs, and
in this regard we would especially like to point out the annual audit of the Project by independent auditors.
5.      Co-operation with [BRD representatives
We have to point out that the co-operation with IBRD representatives during the entire process of implementation of the IRP
was beneficial. Working with Mr. Gerardo Corrochano and Mr. Hennie van Greuning in the beginning, and with Mr. Vinod
Goel and Mrs. Ekaterina Koryukin later on, during the realisation of the project, we found out that they were highly proficient.
They posses specific knowledge which they endeavoured to share with us throughout the project. We believe that the
educational aspect of the Project, set by IBRD representatives, is very important in both stages of IPR, its preparatory stage as
well as during its implementation.
Project Implementation Team : Mrs. Ana Maricic; Mr. Miso gaponja; Mrs. Ksenija Jelenic
- 16-



REPORT OF VARAZDINSKA BANKA DD
]. The original amount of EUR 7.106.957,10 (DEM 13.900.000,00) was decreased by Decision of Varazdinska banka dd on
26 July 2001 and the utilized amount so far was EUR 3.501.452,00.
2. Loan objectives:
- to assist in financing private and newly privatized enterprises that will contribute to economic and social development of the
country
- support development of market for medium and long-term projects
- support competition in financial system
2.1 Sub-loan objectives:
- finance up to 80% of the cost of sub-project (500h of the start-up companies)
Revised objectives:
- finance the working capital
2.2 Total approved sub-loans:
a) for investments:             6 sub-loans in the amount of EUR 1.828.344
b) for working capital:         8 sub-loans in the amount of EUR 1.673.108
Total:             14 sub-loans in the amount of EUR 3.501.452
2.3      Sub-loan balance as at 30 June 2002.
a) for investments:             4 sub-loans in the amount of EUR 710.266,22
(2 sub-loans repaid)
b) for working capital:         7 sub-loans in the amount of EUR 1.026.348,67
(I sub-loan repaid)
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design
According to Loan Agreement between IBRD, Washington and Varazdinska banka dd of 4 Dec. 1997 and partial cancellation
of 3 Aug. 2001, Varazdinska banka dd has utilized the credit line in the total amount of EUR 3.501.452,00. The current
balance of the line is EUR 1.802.114,00 in the countervalue of HRK. The line is being used by II clients of Varaldinska banka
dd.
The realization faze of the IBRD and Varazdinska banka dd project, that ends in 2002, with purpose of Bank restructuring and
restructuring the Bank's client base (enhancement of small and medium client base) in the initial amount of 13.900.000 DEM
is characterized as follows:
a.      Purpose of project - to credit the development of pnvatized small and medium-sized clients of Varazdinska banka has
been partially completed, as the full loan amount was not withdrawn. About EUR 3,5 million (of EUR 7,1 million) was
disbursed, i.e. about 50% of the total amount. The criteria, especially debt/equity ratio of 60:40 appeared to be too high for the
category of small and medium-sized enterprises. The result was extremely low credit utilization.
The corrections in the realization of sub-loans - simplification of complex procedures and implementation of possibility to
utilize the sub-loans for working capital in the amount up to DEM 400.000 (EUR 200.000) revitalized the sub-loans
activities.
b.      Varazdinska banka dd placed 14 loans in total, out of the IBRD line, in the total amount of EUR 3,5 million, of which
EUR 1,8 million was used for investment purposes and EUR 1,7 million for working capital. Current sub-loans balance is EUR
1,7 million. Three clients have completely repaid their loans earlier.
The sub-loans placed from the IBRD line comprise 1,2% of the total non-risk corporate loan portfolio of Varaidinska
banka dd (total about EUR 140 million).
c.      Basic effects from realization of this project for Vara2dinska banka and its corporate part are: establishment of
communication channel towards IBRD and towards small and medium-sized enterprises, incorporation of new banking
technologies in the realization of business activities and policies, introduction of additional criteria in the selection of
- 17-



nominated projects for crediting (lke environment protection) etc.
d.      Although the sub-loans, regarding their size and purpose, could not have significant influence on intensive
strengthening and increasing the participation of small private sector in the regional and national economy, their impact and
promotional importance enabled small enterprises and craftsmen to get easier access to the capital necessary for development.
The total client structure of Varazdinska banka currently comprises, regarding the criteria of size, over 70% of small and
medium-sized enterprises.
4. Institutional Development
Varaldinka banka has in the period since the approval of the loan fulfilled the following items from the Institutional
Development Scheme:
- Developed reports concentrated on understanding strategic position of Varaldinska banka dd
- developed reports which emphasize key influences on current and future position, and on the effects of Varazdinska banka dd
operations
- prepared the bank for risk management and develop risk identification models
- Concentrated on long-tefm planning, implementing changes and passing key strategic decisions
- Implemented active use of management information system. Board of Management will oblige itself by Rules of Procedure to
use all daily, weekly and other information
- Organized education to acquire theoretical and practical skills/knowledge for successful managerial operations
- Arranged that bank operations and business plan are audited and confirmed by a reputable intemational auditors
- Measures capital adequacy not only to comply with the law, but also uses it as the indication which reflects credit capability
of Varaldinska banka
- Introduced portfolio evaluation, and assessment whether loans will be retumed in full and in planned terms
- Organized treasury division to manage domestic and foreign currency liquidity, manage funds on accounts with domestic &
foreign banks - Avoided foreign currency risk by matching maturities and liabilities and by contracting fluctuating interest rates
- Avoided mvestments in non-tradable securities.
- Exposed fixed assets intended for sale to market in order to achieve best prices
- Enhanced risk management system and acted promptly. The Risk management department was established. It monitors the
a.m. risks and sends reports to Board of Management.
- Introduced information system based on precise, timely and relevant information. Its basic aim is a permanent supply of
correct information
- Gave more emphasis to the system of internal control
- Board of Management and Supervisory Board should defined stricter procedures of their activity
- Intemal control should present proposals for procedural and operative improvements
- Match structure of employees
It has to be underlined that Varazdinska banka was taken over in 2000 by Zagrebaeka banka, the lagrest banking group in
Croatia.
This year (2002) Zagrebaeka banka was taken over by UniCredit Bank, Milan, Italy.
Both banks additionally influenced on risk management reports, liquidity management reports and many other issues that
improve quality of management reports.
5. Problems arisen in disbursement
In the beginning there were some problems regarding filling in the Application for Withdrawal. We mean that Disbursement
book we received is not completely satisfactory regarding fulfilment of requested forms. After we sent materials as part of
Application for Withdrawal we had to wait for 2 weeks minimum for an answer and for possibility of withdrawal of funds from
our special account opened with Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt.
We tried to fulfill Applications form in compliance with disbursement book and written clarifications received from officers in
IBRD directly, but we noticed that there were not standard regulations of loan approval, i.e. each of your officers explained
them differently information. The result was that we sometimes had to amend or send completely new applications or
additional explanations although our material was fulfilled in the same way as previous forms and according to received
instructions e.g. (Application no. 4/99, 5/99, 1/2000, 7/2000, 8/2000).
- 18-



The problem probably lies in the fact that we always asked disbursement exclusively for previously approved loans, not for our
special account, which was in fact always at zero.
Another problem was that we always disbursed complete amount we required for sub-loans without any charges for our client.
We often received approved sub-loan amount to our special account less charges of IBRD. Then we had to ask for recredit of
charges, as we give our customer amount of loan they asked for and also IBRD approved. E.g. Application 6/2000 where IBRD
credited our special account for amount of charges.
Our application no. 8/2000, 9/2000 is example when we received amount of the approved sub-loan less charges and till today
we did not receive amount of charges. Mr. J.P.Formoso sent explanation that they have no control over the type of messages
being sent by their Treasury Operations Department, and that they would follow up that issue with Treasury Department.
We do not understand the IBRD policy to replenish other banks' accounts by messages MT 100 or MT 103 (which are liable to
charges), instead of using MT 202 which transfers the full amount.
We suggest IBRD to clanrfy the problem in the future loan contracts.
Project Implementation Team
Mrs. Jadranka Vugrinec, Director of Credit Sector - Project Coordinator
Mrs. Alenka Jesenienik, Supervisor
Mrs. Jasna Slunjski-Golob, Manager
Coordinator with IBRD
Zvonimir Jasek, Assistant Director, Treasury and International
19 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/pifivate sector):
The Guarantor, MOF, has provided written conmments which were incorporated in the final document. The
comments are available in the project file.
10. Additional I[nformation
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
-    li.c"torIMatrix    ;          ,   - Projected In last PSR  |            ActuallLatest Estimate
(a) a measurable increase in performance  not projected                    performance of beneficaries in general
(sales, employees, profitability) of the final                             improved and sales increased;
beneficiaries,
(b) number of final beneficiaries having  not projected                    the PCBs started collection of sub-loans and
contnued access to credit after the first                                  reuse the funds for other loans (many
generabon of loans Is due,                                                 sub-loans were already fully repaid);
(c) qualitatve assessment of improvements  not projected                   the three PCBs were acquired by foreign
in the operational efficiency of the PCBs'                                 investors and are being developed into the
management,                                                                intemational standards banks;
(d) increase in the share of long-term loans  not projected                share of long-term loans increased in all
and lengthening of the average maturity of                                 banks in Croatia (not only IRP borrowers) in
PCBs' portfolio,                                                           view of improving economic situation and
liquidity of the system.
Output Indicators:
.,  -.*Indicator/Matix                  P rojected in last PSR,-- rr    -     ActualULatest Estimate -   -
Number and value of long-term projects  About 200 sub-loans                Over 250 sub-loans; about Euro 22 million
financed
Issuance of new/revised regulabons and risk IDPs were completed 1-2 years before the  Procedures were adopted during mid- project
management procedures of PCBs         project closing date
Creation of an auditt intemal control  Established                         Established (since 2000, this is a general
committee                                                                  requirement by CNB)
Change of organtzational structure of PCBs  not projected                  Changed during the project implementation,
as well as during 2002-2003 due to new
owners of the banks
Identification and design of key risk-based  not projected                 Implemented during mid-project. Most of the
management accounts                                                        accounts are automated and used by PCBs'
management day to day
Training provided to staff            not projected                         Mostly intemal by the PCBs
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.. . * -. a- - ................. ; . Appraisal    Actuai/Latest   Percents  'f?
,  -   - :     r -              DEsttimat      Estimate       Appraisal
-* .     , om pent  -US$                -liion   US$,million.
Slavonska Banka Loan                                    8.80            8.80             100
Dalmatinska Banka Loan                                  8.00            7.30            91.3
Varazdinska Banka Loan                                  7.10            3.80            53.5
Alpe Jadran Banka Loan                                  2.70            1.70              63
Total Baseline Cost                                    26.60           21.60
Total Project Costs              26.60            21.60
Total Financing Required               26.60           21.60
*Amounts are in Euro million. Transferring the data into US$ million creates big distortions due to
exchange rate fluctuations during the project life-time
"Actual/Latest Estimate is amount disbursed as of April 15, 2003.
Project Costs by Procurement Awrangements (in Euro million)
Total Cost    pI        1 
Expenditure                              (Appraisal   Cost
Category            Procuremnet Method Estimate)      (Actual)
Sub-loans to SMEs   Commercial Practces           26.6     21.6
Sub-loans were disbursed based on commercial practices.
Project Financing by Loan '(in US$ million equivalent)_
e;-   .-fPercntage o pfi3s
, -- -isa *l -                    Estimate     [     ActuallLatest Estimate  .  _    __-__
Bank      Govv      co*.     BDank     Govt.    WCF.     Bank   GovL t CF. 
Slavonska Banka         8.80                         8.80                        100.0
Dalmatinska Banka       8.00                         7.30                        91.3
Varazdinska Banka       7.10                         3.80                        53.5
Alpe Jadran Banka       2.70                         1.70    _     _     _       63.0
* Amounts are in Euro million
The Bank Loans financed up to 100% of the sub-loan value (conditions of co-financing was applied to
beneficiaries, not to the PCBs).
-22-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project appraisal did not contain cost benefit analysis (stated as not applicable).
In terms of fiscal impact, the project could be considered positive in its fiscal impact. SMEs growth and
better performance increased taxable incomes. Indirectly, MOF also received from PCBs 0.5% of the loan
amount as a guarantee fee.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1995
Appraisal/Negotiation
Sept. 1996
May 1997
Sept. 1997                  2    TTL, PSD Specialist
April 1998                   1   TTL
Supervision
11/14/1998                   2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S             S
FINAN. SPEC. (1)
05/27/1999                   2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S             S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
09/10/1999                   2   TEAM LEADER (I);                   S             S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
03/23/2000                   2   OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);            S             S
FINANCIAL MANGMT SPEC
(1)
06/22/2000                   2   TEAM LEADER (I);                   S             U
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
10/20/2000                   2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S             S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
05/18/2001                   1   TASK MANAGER (1)                   S             S
11/18/2001                   1   TASK LEADER (1)                    S             S
05/15/2002                   1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S             S
ICR
10/25/2002                  2    Team Leader(]), Operations         S             S
Analyst (1)
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                               275.8
Supervision                                                         390.2
ICR
Total                                                               666.1
With transfer to SAP no information on staff weeks is available.
-24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
W Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
L Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
L Physical                             O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
O Financial                            O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
OI Institutional Development           0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
I Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
O Private sector development           0 H   e SU O M   0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management            0 H O SU O M     0 N  e NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
-25 -



Annex 6. Radngs of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
? Supervision                                      OHS OS      OLu    OHU
FS Overall                                         OHS Os      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS      O u    O HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS O S    O U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                OHS OS      O u    O HU
J Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
-26-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- Project Appraisal Document
- Bank missions' Back-to-Office Reports and PSRs
- Mission Aide-memoires and follow up letters
- Borrowers' (Slavonska, Dalmatinska and Varazdinska banks) inputs to the ICR
- Guarantor's (Ministry of Finance) input to the ICR
- Status reports and quarterly reports from PCBs
- 27 -



-28 -












Repoit No.:       25587
Type:    ICR



