Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4246 HR
Loan Agreement
(Investment Recovery Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
VARAZDINSKA BANKA dd.
Dated December 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4246 HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and VARAZDINSKA BANKA dd. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Republic of Croatia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a private enterprise to which the Borrower proposes 
to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(b)
"Charter" means the charter of the Borrower dated March 20, 1997;
(c)
“Croatian Kunas” means the lawful currency of the Guarantor;
(d)
“Deutsche Marks” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(e)
“Free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Part C of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(f) 
“PIT” means a Project Implementation Team referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(i)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(j)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment 
policy approved by the Supervisory Board of the Borrower on September 26, 1996 as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen 
million nine hundred thousand Deutsche Marks (DEM 13,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Deutsche Marks a special deposit account on its books on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Deutsche Marks for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and prudential banking practices, with qualified management and 
personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02.  For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the 
PIT which shall be responsible for the overall administration of the Project, with 
staff and other resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, including 
Page  4
staff with expertise in procurement and disbursement matters.
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about May 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed, pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 1998, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, 
take all measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievements of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, its accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) 
and records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each 
fiscal year audited in accordance with 
sound auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
(A) certified copies of said financial statements for 
such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
Page  5
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
said records, accounts and financial statements and the 
audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) 
used in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Charter or the Statement of 
Policy shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the 
Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section 5.01 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have adopted an institutional development plan, 
including a timetable and allocation of the resources required for its implementation, 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
The Borrower shall have submitted to the Bank contractual arrangements 
with a firm acceptable to the Bank for the implementation of the institutional 
development plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Management Board of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
P. Preradovicz 17
Varazdin 42000
Croatia
Cable address:
Telex:
BANKA HR
23224
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
VARAZDINSKA BANKA dd.
By /s/ Miomir Zuzul
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account to finance one 
hundred percent (100%) of payments made by the Borrower on account of Sub-loans.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  7
made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date 
of this Agreement. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for payments made by the Borrower on account of 
free-limit Sub-loans as defined in paragraph C.1(b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in private or newly privatized enterprises as will contribute 
to the economic and social development of the Guarantor; (ii) to support the 
Guarantor’s objective of promoting competition in the financial system; and (iii) to 
support the development of a market for medium and long-term financing of investment 
projects.
The Project consists of the financing of specific development projects through 
Sub-loans to private enterprises.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in Deutsche Marks)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2003
through September 15, 2012
  695,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in DEM to be repaid, 
except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
payments on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Sub-projects and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, provided, however, that notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the 
Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible 
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to DEM 500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  9
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified to read as follows:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty (30) days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Page  10
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect or such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or 
(f) by the date specified in paragraph C.2 (c) 
of Schedule 6 to the Loan  Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Loan: (i) 
have received no applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs 
(a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications 
or requests, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
right to submit such 
applications or approvals or to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, as the 
case may be, with respect to such amount 
or portion of the Loan.  Upon the giving 
of such notice, such amount or 
portion of the Loan shall be canceled.”
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans 
A.
Terms and Conditions 
1.
Sub-loans shall be denominated in Deutsche Marks or in Croatian Kunas. 
2.
The principal amount of a Sub-loan repayable by a Beneficiary shall be the 
equivalent in either Deutsche Marks or Croatian Kunas of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account on 
account of the Sub-loan; such equivalent to be determined as of the date of respective 
days of repayment.
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the rate  determined by the Borrower 
on the basis of market conditions and risk assessment in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) made for a period of not less than two (2) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of  up to one-third of the maturity period, but not more 
than two (2) years. 
4.
Each Sub-loan for the expansion of operations shall finance up to eighty percent 
(80%) of the cost of a Sub-project, and each Sub-loan for the start-up of operations 
shall finance up to fifty percent (50%) of the cost of a Sub-project. 
5.
The total amount of all Sub-loans made to a single Beneficiary shall not exceed 
ten percent (10%) of the Loan. 
B.
Eligibility Criteria
1.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries which each shall have established to 
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that:
(a)
it is a duly established enterprise under the laws of the Guarantor, with 
at least fifty-one percent (51%) private shareholding; and
(b)
for each Sub-loan in the amount equal or greater that five percent (5%) 
of the Loan amount, during the term of the Sub-loan: (i) the projected debt:equity 
ratio of the Beneficiary shall not exceed 60:40; (ii) the projected debt:service ratio 
of the Beneficiary shall not be less than 1.5:1; and (iii) the projected internal 
financial rate of return of the proposed Sub-project shall not be less than twelve 
percent (12%).
2.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be:
(a)
technically feasible and financially and commercially viable; and
Page  11
(b)
designed in accordance with appropriate environmental standards approved 
by the environmental authorities of the Guarantor. 
C.
Other Conditions
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 2 (a) of this Section in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 2(b) of this Section in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan which shall not 
exceed ten percent (10%) of the Loan amount other than (i) the first Sub-loan for a 
Sub-project, and (ii) the first three Sub-loans in an amount equal to or greater than 
five percent (5%) of the Loan.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an 
appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before March 31, 2001.
3.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial 
and environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Annex 
to this Schedule; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
Page  12
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Borrower.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
Commercial Practices
Goods and related works estimated to cost DEM 2,000,000 or less per contract may 
be procured at competitive prices, in accordance with the normal commercial practices 
of the respective Beneficiaries, due account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and 
availability of maintenance and spare parts thereof. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are:  (i) of a proprietary nature; or (ii) need to be compatible 
with existing equipment, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract: (i) for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of DEM 2,000,000 or more; and (ii) for goods procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than DEM 200,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than DEM 100,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to DEM 
200,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to DEM 100,000 equivalent or above. 
