Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15866
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 24270/1-BD)
JUNE 28, 1996
Private Sector Development and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restnicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency equivalents
October 1992 (Credit approval): Taka 39 = US$ 1.00
June 1996 (currently): Taka 41.75 = US$1 .00
Fiscal year: July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and acronyms
ADB           -       Asian Development Bank
AIT           -       advance income tax
ASYCUDA       -       automated system for customs data
BBS           -       Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BEPZA         -       Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority
BOI           -       Board of Investment (OPM)
BSCIC         -       Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BTC           -       Bangladesh Tariff Commission (MOC)
DEDO          -       Duty Exemption and Drawback Office (NBR)
ERD           -       Economic Relations Division (MOF)
EPB           -       Export Promotion Bureau (MOC)
ESW           -       economic and sector work
ESAF          -       enhanced structural adjustment facility (IMF)
FIAS          -       Foreign Investment Advisory Service (IFC/World Bank)
FY            -       fiscal year
GOB           -       Government of Bangladesh
IDA           -       International Development Association
IMF           -       International Monetary Fund
ISC-1         -       Industrial Sector Credit (IDA, approved June 9, 1987)
JTI           -       Judicial Training Institute
MUPA          -       Ministry of Law, Justice & Par liamentary Affairs
MOC           -       Ministry of Commerce
MOF           -       Ministry of Finance
MOI           -       Ministry of Industry
MSTQ          -       metrology, standards, testing and quality management
NBR           -       National Board of Revenue (MOF)
OPM           -       Office of the Prime Minister
PFP           -       policy framework paper
PIAG          -       Policy Implementation Advisory Group (USAID/MOI)
PRMAC         -       Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (IDA)
PSD           -       private sector development
PSI           -       pre-shipment inspection
QR             -      quantitative restriction (non-tariff import barrier)
SBW           -       special bonded warehouse
SDR           -       special drawing rights
SED           -       supplementary excise duty
SIPL          -       Second Industrial Program Loan (ADB)
SOE           -       state-owned enterprise
TA            -       technical assistance
UNCTAD        -       United Nations Conference on 1'rade & Development
UNDP          -       United Nations Development Programme
USAID         -       United States Agency for Internati(onal Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2A270/1-BD)
Table of contents
Preface                                                                                        ii
Evaluation summary
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.     Statoment and Evaluation of Objectives                                           1
B.     Achievement of Objectives                                                        3
C.     MaJor Factors Affecting the Project                                              6
D.     Project Sustainability                                                           6
E.     Bank Paeformance                                                                 7
F.     Borrower Performance                                                             9
G.     Assessment of Outcome                                                           10
H.    Future Operation                                                                 11
f.     Key Lessons Learned                                                             12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.     Summary of Assessments                                                         13
2.     Related IDA Credits                                                             14
3.     Project Timetable                                                               15
4.     Credit Disbursements                                                            15
5.     Status of Legal Covonants                                                       16
6.     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                                    16
7.     Bank Resources: Missions                                                        17
8      Trends In Nominal Protection                                                    18
APPENDIXES
A.     ICR Mision's Alde-memoire                                                             A-1
Annex I        Status qfpolkcy acWonm (marix)                                        A- 4
Anna 2         Sunmary of agencies' comments on draft AM                             A -12
B.     Borrower's Contribution                                                               B-I
C.     GOB Statement of Trade and Rogulatory Policy (June 18, 1992)                          C - 1
D.     Map                                                                                   D-1
Thk documnt has brticted dtribudon an may be used by reiiet only In the perfomrmo of their offil dudi. Its contents
Imay not othuwbe be dislosd without World lank authorizaon.






1IPLEMENTATION COMPLEllON REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND lNDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 24270/1-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit in Bangladesh, for which credit 24270-BD in the amount of SDR 72.2 million
(US$100 million equivalent) was approved on October 27, 1992 and made effective on November
5, 1993 (original date January 1993). One supplementary IDA credit 24271-BD in the amount of
SDR 2.53 million was signed on January 22, 1993.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1994 (original date December 31, 1993). The first
tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by February 2, 1994. Final disbursement
took place on that date, and a balance of US$50 million was canceled on December 31, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Draper, Private Sector Development and Finance
Division, and reviewed by Marilou Uy (Chief) and Abid Hasan, PSD & Finance Division, John
Wall (Lead Economist) and Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project Advisor), all of Country Department I of
the South Asia Region. The Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a mission for this purpose in July, 1995. It is
based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to its preparation by contributing
views reflected on the mission's revised aide-memoire, commenting on the draft ICR, and
preparing its own evaluation of the project.
Although the Credit was closed on December 31, 1994 without release of its second
tranche, this report's deadline was extended to enable it to report rather than foreshadow the further
progress on implementing the program which the Borrower expected to make in its FY1995/96
Budget and Import Policy. As noted in the report, good progress did occur in tariff reduction.
- ii -






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEIION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENM CREDfT
(Credit 24270/1-BD)
Evaluation Summary
INTRODUCTION
i.   IDA operabons in Bangladesh during the second half of the 1 980s supported industrial,
energy and financial sector policy adjustment, and export development. The Industrial Sector
Credit (Cr. 1816-BD, 1987), which followed an elaborate Trade and Industrial Policy technical
assistance project, inibiated adjustment in protection, finance, and public enterprise. Preparation of
this follow-on operation was well advanced when first an interim and then a democratically elected
Government replaced the former regime in 1990/91. It was resumed in parallel with preparation of
projects for investment financing, public resource management, and technical assistance. The four
operatons were approved during May-October 1992 (ICR Table 2).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    Obiectives: ISAC-I1 supported a wide range of reforms in three areas (pare 3):
(1) ImDort liberalization to reduce and rationalize effective protection and also to streamline
import procedures through: (i) removal of controls and simplification of procedures, transferring
protection fully to tariff and exchange rates; (ii) reform of the tariff structure to yield nominal
protection in the range of 7.5 to 50 percent for most activities, as a step towards achieving a 0
to 30 percent range by 1997 with the help of a reformed Tariff Commission; and (iii) coord-
inating the tariff reform with expanded consumption taxation and reformed assessment
procedures to make the latter more equitable and to safeguard revenue.
(2) Export Dromotion through: (i) improved coverage and operation of the duty drawback and
bonding programs to provide direct and indirect exporters with world priced inputs; and (ii) a
more strategic approach to other aspects of export promotion utilizing a strengthened Export
Promotion Bureau, matching grants, and deregulation.
(3) Private sector development through: (i) substantial deregulation and procedural reform to
remove public control over private investment, relax exchange controls, and initiate the reform
of business laws and legal process; and (ii) stronger promotional stance towards efficient
- iii -



private sector development (PSD) through reorganization of the Board of Investment,
rationalization of fiscal incentives, and further mechanisms.
iii.   GOB was also expected to maintain the macroeconomic framework agreed with IDA
and the IMF in the policy framework paper (PFP) process, particularly with regard to the roles
of (i) the exchange rate in protecting production and (ii) trade neutral VAT and supplementary
duty in maintaining revenue during the tariff rationalization (para 4).
iv.    Special covenants or agreements: None, other than the credit's own effectiveness and
second tranche conditionality, but the achievement of its objectives was expected to be
facilitated by several parallel operations already approved: (i) IDA's Export Development
Project, which had initiated work on the export component, (ii) IDA's Sixth Technical
Assistance Credit, to help institutional development in tariff codification, trade data and tariff
analysis, (iii) IDA's Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit, to help maintain
revenue, (iv) ADB's Second Industrial Policy Loan, to promote privatization, (v) IMF's Extended
Structu-al Adjustment Facility, and (vi) TA support from UNDP, FIAS, USAID and other donors
in the areas of deregulation and promotion (paras 9, 18, 19).
v.    Evaluation: The objectives were mutually supporting, clearly understood, reflected a
consistent reform strategy, appeared realistic for an enthusiastic new Government committed
to rapid reform, combined PSD and export promotion with less quickly beneficial trade reform
to reduce potential opposition from the business community, and accorded with current Bank
practice. The design was elaborate, however, and the scope of the institutional changes
required proved too ambitious for adequate achievement in the prescribed time frame (para 5).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
vi.   Achievement of obiectives: Although most objectives were at least partly achieved, not
enough of the specified agenda could be implemented for the second tranche to be released
by the closing date, which had been extended a year:
(1) The identified goals in import liberalization have been substantially achieved, with the key
DCA requirements met. Tariffs were reduced to the planned range without revenue loss due
to the expected trade expansion which it allowed. Delays, shortfalls in compression, and
retention of QRs on a few items, however, have slowed progress towards low and uniform
rates of effective protection (paras 7,13).
(2) In export promotion several policy impediments have been removed on paper and partly in
practice, particularly with respect to the schemes to assure exporters better access to world
priced inputs where the formal DCA requirements were met fully. On the other hand, some of
these improvements and other elements of the program have yet to be implemented
sufficiently to give more positive support to export diversification (para 8).
l v 



(3) A strong start on the Dnvate sector development component significantly improved the
climate for private investment in 1992-1994. Investment controls were removed and exchange
controls significantly relaxed. Institutional initiatives were not pursued sufficiently within the
credit period to yield further improvements, but their scope and the public discussion they
generated had a positive psychological impact on both investors and bureaucrats (para 9).
vii.   Sustainability: The reforms that have been implemented so far are expected to be at
least sustained, since their success is already manifest, they have helped establish the private
sector, especially exporters, as the main players in industrialization, and they have shown the
value of balancing consumers/users' interests against those of producers. With political will for
reform expected to continue under the new Government, the increasing strength of the internal
Mexport lobby", and perhaps further external encouragement, the process of transformation
initiated under ISAC-II should prove sustainable as well. This has been indicated already by
actions taken since the credit closed, such as further tariff reduction in 1995/96 and planned
institutional strengthening in tax administration and tariff analysis (paras 12-14).
viii.  Financing and schedule: The $100 million equivalent credit was supplemented by
$3.5 million equivalent in IDA reflow finance, allowing $53.6 million to be disbursed promptly
after the credit became effective in November 1993. This was nine months later than
expected and the closing date was extended by a year to December 1994 to allow for the
second tranche to occur after GOB's June/July 1994 Budget and policy orders. In the event,
insufficient progress was made in some areas and the credit closed without tranche release
when completion of the agenda by the following Budget could not be promised to justify a
further extension. (Tables 3, 4, 5).
ix.    Key factors: The project's successes were mainly due to: the Govemment's original
commitment to reform (with some policy decisions taken in advance of credit approval); the
determination of the Finance Minister and several key officials to overcome bureaucratic and
other obstacles to the promised implementation of policy changes; and the combination of
PSD with trade reform in the project design to hamess the support of the business community.
The delayed effectiveness and failed second tranche were due partly to late starts and weak
performance in implementing the preparatory activities scheduled to occur at the beginning of
the credit period. Unfortunately, just as momentum was belatedly picking up in the second
year (allowing several tranche conditions to be met), the worsening political situation distracted
Government attention from completing the agenda. A third factor was the inherent difficulty of
managing institution building across various agencies within the limited period of an
adjustment credit, even though only initial actions were required in most cases (paras 10,11).
x.    Performance: The ratings for the Bank range from satisfactory for preparation and
appraisal to highly satisfactory for identification and supervision (paras 15-19, Table 1.c), while
the Borrower is rated satisfactory on preparation and implementation but deficient on covenant
compliance (paras 20-22, Table 1.d).
- V -



xi.    Outcome: The project's outcome was satisfactory -- even without second tranche
release - in view of: (i) the ufront loading' of policy decisions; (ii) the achievement of most of its
major objectives -- considerable tariff reform, world priced inputs for export, and removal of
most import, investment and exchange controls -- and the high probability that these will be
sustained; (iii) the lesser importance of its shortcomings, which largely reflect the need for
more time and/or support to perfect difficult institutional change; (iv) the expectation that the
progress made, though less than hoped, is already sufficient to achieve satisfactory
development results, some of which are already manifest (paras 23, 24); and (v) the auxiliary
functions which the project performed successfully as a vehicle for technical collaboration, a
medium for at least initiating institutional reform, and a catalyst for GOB/IDA/IMF dialogue on a
broader reform agenda (para 15).
FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND LESSONS
xii.   Findings: Three features of the implementation stand out (paras 7-11,23, 24): (1) It
proved feasible for Bangladesh to take significant steps towards both trade liberalization and
improving the climate for private investment within a very short period. (2) It proved more
difficult to make the necessary institutional preparations for deeper further reforms involving
agencies that were not central to the credit's "core" conditionality on trade policy where the IDA
and IMF programs coincided. (3) The operation was expensive, but it served useful ancillary
purposes as a catalyst for dialogue, technical work and broader reform beyond its specific
components.
xiii.  Future operations: Further reform, delayed during the political hiatus of 1995/96, is
expected to be resumed by the new Government now installed. Key areas for consideration
include (i) completing the trade reform agenda, including the enclave facilities as well as tariffs
and QRs, (ii) tackling law and legal process reform directly, (iii) rationalizing the corporate tax
system, (iv) deepening the supporting framework for export product and market development,
including MSTQ facilities and matching grants, and (v) advancing reform and investment in
other sectors, especially finance and infrastructure, which are equally essential for the broad
goal of rapid industrialization. Other than discussions on further TA for the NBR and Tariff
Commission, planning of follow-up IDA operations to support such reforms also has been
delayed but can now resume. (para 25).
xiv.   Lessons: Three main lessons were leamed to reduce the risk of partial failure in
support for complex reform programs: (1) Adequate allowance should be made for the ability
of an unconvinced and/or technically weak bureaucracy to thwart essential institutional aspects
of policy reform. (2) Projects which involve reform in several areas at once need commitment
from all concemed Ministers, with collective responsibility and/or strong leadership. (3) A
comprehensive reform agenda should be supported by several separate operations and non-
lending instruments, either in series or parallel; this requires "dividing the pie" and may involve
multiple donors in a coordinated program of support. (para 26).
- vi -



IMPLFMENTATION COlMPLEION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 24270/1-BD)
Part I: Program Implementation Assessment
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Credit was approved in October 1992 when a fairly new democratic Government,
committed to a vigorous structural adjustment program, had continued to pursue sound
macroeconomic policies into the second year of an ESAF program and had initiated important
reforms in public finance to raise savings and public investment (supported by IDA's Public
Resource Management Adjustment Credit, May 1992). Economic growth had already slowed
to 3.2 percent by FY1991/92, however, and industrial performance had remained sluggish
with the exception of rapid growth in ready made garment exports under a multilateral quota
regime that favored Bangladesh. The balance of payments was stabilized after a return to
flexible exchange rate management, but the apparently strong reserves position, then 5.4
months of imports, was due to imports' depressed level as much as to the emergence of a
successful garment export business. To achieve and sustain an overall growth rate consistent
with poverty alleviation, it was essential to promote industrial development by (a) resuming
the privatization process which had been stalled for almost a decade, and (b) stimulating
private investment.
2.    Privatization was initially supported by the Asian Development Bank, while IDA
worked with the new Government to design support for a broader agenda of trade and
regulatory reform to encourage industrial growth based on private investment. Specifically,
the Credit was designed to: "support the replacement of.. ad hoc regulatory and fiscal policy
measures by a more liberal and neutral trading environment in which industry, led by the
private sector including foreign investment, could become a principal engine of development in
Bangladesh. This process would be facilitated by the removal of unnecessary regulation and
Government's adoption of a promotional stance towards private industry and trade."1
3.    Monitorable actions to these ends were specified in three areas -- import liberalization,
export promotion, and private sector development -- in each of which some steps had been
implemented or initiated by mid-1992.2 The following broad targets were to be achieved over
I   Report and Recommendation of the President, para. 40 (Report No. P-5816-BD, October 2, 1992).
2   See column 2 of the policy matrix annexed to Appendix A.
-1I-



the 15 months following Credit approval (later extended by the 12 months ending December
1994) through a detailed program of further actions:3
(a)   Import liberalization to reduce and rationalize effective protection and also to
streamline import procedures through:
* removal of controls and simplification of procedures not required for public health or
other non-trade reasons, transferring protection fully to tariff and exchange rates;
* reform of the tariff structure to yield nominal protection in the range of 7.5 to 50
percent for most activities, as a step towards achieving a 0 to 30 percent range by 1997
with the help of a reformed Tariff Commission;
* coordinating the tariff reform with expanded consumption taxation and reformed
assessment procedures to make the latter more equitable and to safeguard revenue.
(b)   Export promotion through:
* improved coverage and operation of the duty drawback and bonding programs to
provide direct and indirect exporters with world priced inputs;
* a more strategic approach to other aspects of export promotion utilizing a
strengthened Export Promotion Bureau, matching grants, and deregulation.
(c)   Private sector development through:
- substantial deregulation and procedural reform to remove public control over private
investment, relax exchange control, and initiate the overhaul of business laws and legal
process;
- stronger promotional stance towards efficient PSD through reorganization of the
Board of Investment, rationalization of fiscal incentives, and further mechanisms.
4.    GOB was also expected to maintain the macroeconomic framework agreed with IDA
and the IMF in the PFP process, particularly with regard to the roles of (i) the exchange rate
in protecting production and (ii) trade neutral VAT and supplementary duty in maintaining
revenue during the tariff rationalization.
5.    Though numerous, these objectives were mutually supporting, reflected a consistent
reform strategy of the Government, and accorded with current Bank practice. They were
clearly understood when the Credit was approved, and remain so today when good progress
has been made on achieving many of them. They appeared realistic for an enthusiastic new
Government which was (i) committed in its manifesto and in its Industry Policy 1991 to
fostering an open and competitive economic environment for efficient and mainly private
industrial development, and (ii) apparently determined to move swiftly on a comprehensive
program to these ends. The combination of PSD and export promotion with less quickly
beneficial trade reform reduced potential opposition from the business community. In
retrospect, however, as the shortcomings discussed below indicate, the scope of the objectives
proved to be too ambitious for their adequate achievement in the prescribed time frame.
3   See column 3 of the same policy matrix.
- 2-



6.    Resistance from existing inefficient industry was initially harder to overcome than
expected, but the most important area in which the objectives proved to be over-ambitious was
institutional: i.e. the need for radical change on various fronts at once exceeded the capacity
of some implementing agencies without fully committed Cabinet oversight. While several of
the agencies could handle their responsibilities well, the program design expected too much
from those which had to be strengthened or redirected tirst (even when only initial actions
were required). The design also underestimated the technical difficulty of getting initiating
legislation through the legal drafting process, and the tenacity of opposition from adversely
affected civil servants (notably in Customs houses and the BOI). All agencies are now
performing better than at the outset, but the institutional reform explicit in the program would
have had to be undertaken considerably faster or started much earlier to ensure the expected
quality of implementation for the prescribed policy changes which did indeed occur on paper.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The objective of impoit liberalization has been substantially achieved without revenue
loss due to the expected trade expansion which it allowed. Steps were taken somewhat later
than planned, however, and other shortfalls have slowed progress towards low and uniform
rates of effective protection:
* Reduction of the maximum customs duty rate to 45 percent with a few exceptions
at 50 percent was delayed until FY1995/96. However, it occurred then without the
exceptions at much higher rates that were anticipated when the target date was set for
FY1993/94 (see Box 1 and Table 8 in Part II).
* Most import controls were removed under the program, leaving protection only for
yarn and fabrics and a few other politically "sensitive" products still provided by
quantitative restrictions rather than tariff rates at or above the new maximum.
Box 1: Big reduction in protection
1991        1996
Maximum customs duty (CD) rate               400 percent   50 percent
Average rate of nominal protection due to
CD + 23. % license fee (LF) + part of 2; %
advance income tax (AIT):    Unweighted       89 percent   25 percent
Import-weighted     52 percent   22 percent
Estimated average rate of effective protection
for manufacturing value-added:   All industries  82 percent    67 percent
Excluding steel/engineering & food/dairy  93 percent    45 percent
3



* Relatively minor aspects of the tariff rationalization program that were not fully
implemented include: abolishing the 2.5 percent license fee; making VAT on textiles
and supplementary duty trade neutral; minimizing the use of zero rated customs duty on
inputs, at least until tariffs on outputs are much lower than 47.5 - 52.5 percent; and
removing a few remaining rate distinctions by type of importer.
* These shortfalls are attributable in part to the serious delay which occurred initially
in strengthening capacity for tariff analysis, i.e. reconstituting and staffing the Tariff
Commission; the new organization is now functioning quite well, but has not yet had
time to complete either a thorough cost/benefit analysis of the QRs or a general review
of relative protection. Excellent progress has been made, however, on facilitating such
analysis by simplifying the tariff code and improving import statistics.
* Some further improvements have to be made to streamline import administration:
first, passbooks were abolished for most imports and some other redundant or intrusive
permit and flnancing provisions were removed by 1994, although the Government did
4
not publish a new Import Policy Order to enshrine these revisions.
* Second, Customs clearance has been at least partially reformed through the
voluntary preshipment inspection scheme. Better performance may have occurred if
this had been upgraded to the prescribed scheme -- comprehensive, compulsory,
contractual, and including assessment offshore -- when it became apparent that the
voluntary approach would not ensure hassle-free clearance, equitable assessment, and
improved collections.
8.    Performance on export promotion has been mixed. On one hand, several policy
impediments have been removed, particularly with respect to assuring many exporters better
access to world priced inputs. On the other hand, the Government was unable to implement
some elements of the program intended to give more positive support to export diversification:
* Great improvement has occurred in the operation of the duty drawback system
with several hundred "flat rates" established by DEDO and remaining problems in
handling applications could be removed in the course of implementing the June 1995
decision to delegate processing to banks.
* At least formally, the special bonded warehouse system which had facilitated the
spectacular growth of garments has now been made available to any export industry;
this will not be fully effective, however, until NBR develops an adequate monitoring
system to quell fears of leakage.
* Good progress has occurred also on the removal of the already modest range of
controls and regulations, facilitated by the promulgation of an export development
strategy and the establishment of both a consultative mechanism (the reformed Export
4   The 1995-1997 IPO, effective April 1996, is now printed; its English language edition is due July 1996.
- 4-



Council) and improved policy making machinery (the Commerce Minister's task force
and the Cabinet-level National Committee on Export).
* Although the Export Promotion Bureau now has some private oversight, it retains
bureaucratic regulatory functions rather than focusing on being a professional service
organization (the program proposed to reconstitute it as a relatively small, autonomous,
market oriented business with technical capacity for commercial advice to exporters).
* Similarly, the proposed assistance fund has not yet been fully implemented as a
matching grant facility for product and market development with objective,
transparent criteria (although funding was provided in the FY1994/95 budget).
* As for the unsatisfactory export credit guarantee scheme, discussions on its
reorganization were initiated in 1992 but have not been followed up.
9.    After a very strong start on the private sector development component of the program,
which significantly improved the business climate in 1992-1994, progress petered out and
initiatives were not pursued sufficiently within the Credit period to yield significant further
change in the climate for private investment. However, their scope - and public discussion
generated by the process -- clearly had a positive psychological impact on both investors and
bureaucrats. The shortfalls occurred especially in those elements that required complex
institutional reform rather than simpler policy decisions:
* Early successes included the removal of investment and relaxation of exchange
controls. Further progress has yet to occur on exchange controls after Bangladesh
formally liberalized the current account and qualified for IMF Article VIII status;
exporters must stiU surrender most of their proceeds and most imports require L/Cs.
* The formal removal of power and telecommunications from the list of industries
reserved to the State also occurred promptly, but a long delay occurred before serious
work commenced on regulations to give effect to private investment in those activities.
* The transfer of the Board of Investment to the Prime Minister's Office and
mobilization of TA (UNDP/FIAS) to assist its reorganization occurred on schedule.
The reform process then stalled through inability to overcome employee resistance to
the restructuring of the staff, but progress has been resumed on redirecting the
organization since the Credit closed.
* A task force was established to launch legal and judicial reform, but it lacked
political, bureaucratic (Law Ministry) or technical support and momentum was lost
through diversion of Government attention to the more formal (and yet unresolved) re-
establishment of the Law Reform Commission. The Judicial Training Center was
established by legislation, but bureaucratic problems have delayed its becoming
operational.
-5-



* The mobilization of TA in the Ministry of Industry (USAID's PIAG) to review the
regulatory framework played a valuable role in identifying further obstacles, but
parallel reviews of incentives in corporate taxation and broad aspects of investment
promotion were commenced less promptly and lacked the analytical depth to support
policy action.
B. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   The unsatisfactory implementation of several of the project's second-year actions was
due to inadequate groundwork for them in the first year. The program prescribed various
studies that would identify and/or win support for specific approaches which it would have
been premature to define precisely in advance if the Borrower were to retain intellectual
control of the program. Consultants were involved in some of these preparations, but their
weaknesses were due more to delayed recruitment, inappropriate selection, or limited scope of
work than to poor professional performance. In other cases official task forces were
responsible for planning the subsequent actions, but lacked adequate technical support.
Officials of both the Borrower and the Bank bear some responsibility for these failures, but
important contributing factors included the large number of parallel processes which moved at
different speeds and the multiple sourcing of TA activities on which some of the project
elements depended.
11.   Such factors caused important parts of the reform program to run a year or more
behind their original schedule, delaying Credit effectiveness until November 1993 and
extending the closing date to December 1994 (i.e. the middle of FY1994/95 which thus
became the second year of the program). An unfortunate consequence was that, just as
momentum was picking up during that year, Government attention was distracted by domestic
political strife with the Opposition parties boycotting Parliament. Although progress continued
to occur, the Credit was closed since GOB could not justify a further extension of time -- even
with restructuring -- by pledging to complete sufficient core program elements by the
FY1995/96 Budget. IDA supervision missions had recognized the inherent difficulty of
completing the institution building elements within an adjustment credit period, and would
have proposed waivers on these if serious progress on them and completion of the core policy
agenda could be assured. This course was precluded largely by worsening political conditions.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
12.   Those specific program items that have been implemented successfully are expected to
be sustained -- notably progress to date on tariff reform, confinement of import controls to a
few "sensitive" products, reconstruction of the Tariff Commission, streamlined schemes for
world priced inputs to export, and removal of all investment and most exchange controls.
Only a drastic -- and unlikely -- change of economic philosophy could reverse these reforms,
or even preclude further, at least gradual, progress. The changes made so far have already
- 6 -



been sufficient to put the private sector in the driving seat of industrialization, to establish
export as the core of growth and thus job-based poverty alleviation, and to introduce the
concept of the sovereignty of consumers over protected producers.
13.   While it would be difficult to reverse the particular gains made to date, the project's
sustainability should be measured also in terms of its role in initiating a continual process of
reform to make and keep the policy environment supportive of private industry in a rapidly
changing world. The reform process has already been interrupted by 18 months of political
upheaval, which precluded (i) satisfactory completion of the ISAC-II program's second stage
(although some important actions such as further tariff reduction occurred after the credit
closed), and (ii) preparation of an expected follow-on operation in 1995-97. The political
situation now appears to be settled with a new Government taking office in June 1996.
Although much of its announced policy is generally consistent with the reform process
commenced under the project, there may be a danger of delay in regaining the momentum --
especially in those areas where (i) implementation is still well below expectations such as legal
reform and investment facilitation or (ii) ISAC-II covered only some stages of multi-year
processes such as tariff compression and reduction to very low, pro-export levels.
14. With continued political will and increasing strength of the internal "export lobby"
even the process of transformation initiated under ISAC-II should prove sustainable, although
experience elsewhere suggests that further external encouragement may be a useful adjunct to
these forces. Particular needs to help consolidate the progressive improvement of the business
environment include further institution building in the areas of protection analysis, legal
system reform, export product and market development, Customs clearance, and bonded
warehousing. Other key needs that were not initiated under ISAC-II but are just as essential to
its broad industrial development objectives include improved access to utilities and port
facilities, and acceleration of the financial sector reform and privatization processes.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
15.   One strength of the Bank's performance lay in considerable staff continuity, at both
headquarters and the resident mission, from preparation through supervision. In addition, IDA
allocated unusually large staff resources to the operation, in recognition both of the project's
complex scope and of the auxiliary functions it came to assume as (i) a vehicle for intensive
technical collaboration on trade policy and statistics,5 (ii) a medium for institutional reform
with complementary assistance from IDA and other donors, and (iii) a catalyst for dialogue on
an even broader reform agenda. The quality of performance did vary at different project
stages, however:
S Technical work in these areas was gradually taken over by officials and consultants funded by TA-VI, but
considerable technical input was provided by Bank staff and consultants, especially during identification and preparation in
1989-1992.
-7-



16.   Identification is rated highly satisfactory. It occurred in 1989-1990 when Bank staff
responded to the previous (Ershad) Govemment's apparent intent to make the garment export
success of the 1980s sustainable through diversification, to readdress through import
liberalization the SOE reform that had failed to occur under ISC-l, and to attack Customs
corruption through a full-scale scheme for offshore assessment. The validity of the resource-
intensive identification process was underscored by the maintenance of all the key program
elements when the project was reactivated with an expanded agenda under a new Government.
17.   Preparation began as soon as the new democratic Government assumed office in 1991,
and also was resource intensive. It can be rated as satisfactory, yielding a program of
mutually supportive policy and institutional reforms which were essential for achieving the
broad liberalization, export and PSD objectives. It might have been better, however, if Bank
staff had been less persuaded by the positive manifesto of the new Government into
underestimating the ability of the bureaucracy to resist some of the specific reforms. Another
weakness of this and the previous stages was that they incorporated intensive technical tasks
that might have been done better under separate TA or ESW tasks; staff were absorbed by the
technical challenge of establishing the starting point for the program, and perhaps too ready for
the Bank to lead rather than assist the Government in preparation. It was recognized also that
an earlier TA operation with a longer horizon may have been more appropriate for the
planning and institution building elements that were being built into the design of an
adjustment operation, but that option was no longer available.
18.   Appraisal also was satisfactory in most respects: a two-tranche operation was decided
on, and key steps were spelled out for each agenda item, leaving flexibility where necessary
for phase I studies to define phase II actions. It might have been better, however, if the
appraisal could have been separated more clearly from the negotiations process. By now the
project's political momentum may have inhibited IDA's dispassionate appraisal of (i) the
Government's effective political commitment and leadership potential across various Ministries
and (ii) some of the implementing agencies' propensity and technical capability to perform in
the absence of such leadership. More attention might have been given also to checking the
actual priorities of the prospective private investors who should have been the primary
beneficiaries, although staff were conscious that the agenda was already broad. Other risks of
the program stalling -- mainly through GOB's difficulty in sustaining its concern for general
welfare goals over narrower short term interests -- were well anticipated, and to reduce them
much store was set on the strengthening of the Tariff Commission and other internal elements
of the program as well as its close association with the IMF's PFP/ESAF process and the
adequate size of the Credit.7 At the time, an adjustment operation was considered the
appropriate instrument for the program, although the already modest balance of payments and
fiscal rationales were undermined when (i) external reserves became even stronger as export
success initially outran import liberalization, and (ii) the Government's fear of revenue loss
through tariff reform proved groundless.
6   The Credit amount was doubled to $100 million mainly on the strength of this welcome determination on PSI.
7   In the event, the project was held together longer than might have been the case by these factors, particularly its
synergy with the IMF program as well as the respect of bilateral donors.
- 8 -



19.   Supervision must be judged as highly satisfactory, the formal failure to complete the
program notwithstanding. Throughout more than two years from approval to closure a
frequent and well staffed HQ mission schedule was complemented by close field office
support, implementation progress was reported in detail, problems carefully assessed, advice
plentifully given, and great flexibility shown in finding ways to give effect to the spirit and
purpose of each component wherever the narrowly predefined steps or timing proved difficult.
Close cooperation was maintained with several others of Bangladesh's development partners,
providing support in related areas. These included USAID (industrial regulation), UNDP/ITC
(export promotion), UNCTAD (ASYCUDA), and the ADB whose Second Industrial Program
Loan complemented ISAC-Il by promoting SOE divestiture.8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   The Government commenced the project with very strong commitment to its objectives,
and continued to regard it as an important symbol of its overall reform program and of donor
support for its PSD and liberalization stance. At times the maintenance of this stance rested on
the shoulders of the Finance Minister against considerable political reluctance to realize its
operational consequences. Several of the Borrower's implementing agencies worked very hard
for the success of their own components, in some cases throughout the whole preparation and
implementation period. In spite of frequent staff changes, the leadership of the National Board
of Revenue and its Customs wing stands out for sustained commitment to the direction, if not
pace, of change while considerable vigor was exhibited at various times by the Commerce
Ministry, Finance Division, Bangladesh Bank and Tariff Commission. A notable strength in
GOB's performance comprised the valuable leadership role played by the Finance Ministry's
Economic Relations Division in coordinating a variety of implementing agencies over a four-
year period which saw several changes in their (and its own) key personnel.
21.   Such changes in the Borrower's team were especially distracting when they involved
new Secretaries or Ministers (other than Finance) unfamiliar with the project. A second order
weakness, fortunately only affecting some minor components, was that some concerned
Ministries (e.g. Law & Justice, Industry) were never sufficiently involved in the project design
to establish ownership, even at the outset.9 In a few other cases, progress in otherwise
successful components was severely stalled by either uncommitted or unsupported senior
personnel; this problem was occasionally significant in subsidiary agencies of the Commerce
Ministry (e.g. Tariff Commission, Export Promotion Bureau), the PM's Office (Board of
Investment) and even NBR (Income Tax), while at other times some of these agencies made
a   The Asian Development Bank's SIPL was canceled without release of its second tranche in April 1994 due to
weak progress on the privatization program.
9   Ironically, the Industries Ministry which had initiated the project in 1989 under the previous Government was
sidelined during project appraisal when (i) the BOI was slated for transfer to the PM's Office, (ii) Indust7y Policy 1991
was guided by the Commerce Minister, and (iii) technical work under ISAC-Il's regulatory component, though
occurring in the MOI, was largely undertaken through the PIAG project that was separately sponsored by USAID.
- 9 -



fine progress. These dichotomies tended to occur when senior and middle level personnel of
an agency had different degrees of obligation to the program objectives, or when TA fell
behind schedule. Under these circumstances and in a political world, sporadic failures to
maintain all agencies' momentum was understandable; even with the Prime Minister's support
at critical junctures, it was difficult for the Finance Minister to keep such an inter-Ministerial
program on consistent track.
22.   On balance, allowing for the breadth of the reform program which was supported by a
single operation, and notwithstanding the failure of the second tranche, the Borrower's
performance may be judged as satisfactory. Some key elements of the program were managed
in a highly satisfactory manner over much of the period, while deficient performance was
confined largely to subsidiary elements of the covenant for second tranche which required
stronger TA support than was available. The main deficiencies related to the inability of the
Finance Minister to ensure consistent cooperation from his Cabinet colleagues when the BNP
Government was preoccupied with political rather than economic issues.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
23.   The Credit's second tranche could not be released due to GOB's inability to implement
the textiles-related VAT and QR provisions, institutional reforms in BOI and EPB, and some
other contractual elements of an ambitious, comprehensive reform program. Nevertheless, the
project' s outcome must be judged satisfactory in view of:
- the achievement of most of its major objectives -- considerable tariff reform, world
priced inputs for export, and removal of most import, investment and exchange
controls -- and the high probability that these will be sustained (Section D),
o the lesser importance of its weaknesses, which largely reflect the need for more time
and/or complementary IDA/other support to perfect difficult institutional reform, and
* the expectation that the progress made, though less than hoped, is already sufficient
to achieve satisfactory development results.
24.   Some of these results are already manifest. Even in areas such as investment and
export promotion, where specific program implementation was below expectations, important
contributions were made to the creation of a more liberal and neutral trading environment in
which industry, led by foreign and other private investment, could become a principal engine
of development in Bangladesh. The strong upsurge in private investment in industry in 1994
was helped in no small measure by investors' perception of the fundamental policy changes
which the project supported. For this growth to be sustained, however, both completion of the
institutional reforms to provide positive support and further progress on promoting competition
are essential. The project thus played key ancillary roles in advertising the Government's
achievements and identifying the need and scope for more technically demanding reform.
- 10 -



H. FUTURE OPERATION
25.   None of the program elements has been abandoned and further progress is likely to
occur in each area as the political situation becomes more settled. The new Government -- and
any likely successors -- are expected to maintain fiscal and monetary stability, flexible
exchange rate management, and continuing efforts to liberalize trade and remove unnecessary
regulations and procedures to promote the free market economy. In particular, the following
key further steps are expected to occur in the areas initiated under ISAC-II, especially if
appropriate technical support is available for planning specific reform measures, evaluating
their implications, and steering their implementation:
* the NBR has firm plans (and expects TA) to continue the processes of streamlining
procedures for (i) Customs clearance procedures including more responsible
preshipment inspection, (ii) the duty drawback and SBW schemes, and (iii) trade
statistics to support policy analysis by itself (revenue), BTC (protection) and other
parties;
* the next two Budgets could continue progress on tariff reform with more focus on
rate compression,'0 to achieve by 1997 or 1998 the stated medium term goal of
"effective protection at low levels prevailing in internationally competitive developing
countries" ;1
- meanwhile, more thorough analysis of the key textile subsector, already begun by
BTC, could help the removal of (i) most remaining QRs without high tariff
replacement, and (ii) the main exception to trade neutrality in the VAT;
- QR removal should be helped also by more rapid progress on privatization -- or at
least and meanwhile full commercialization -- of SOEs in textiles and also in sugar
production and petroleum import;
* a new, more thorough examination is required (and being planned) to underpin the
development of a system of corporate taxation more appropriate to facilitate an
expected period of rapid industrialization;
* the institutional strengthening of the BTC is expected to continue with further TA
expected to begin soon, while it should be easy for the new Government to solve
problems stalling parallel reorganizations of the promotion bodies, BOI and EPB;
* the purely bureaucratic barrier to the execution of the professionally managed
matching grant scheme for export product/market development also could be
overcome easily, while new initiatives are needed on other MSTQ support; and
10   The goal itmples a zero tc 20 percent noininal tariff structure, comprising only customs duty (i.e. no other
import taxes such as license fee, urieimbursed advance income tax, non-neutral VAT or SED).
11   Development Credit Agreement S.5.01 (j)(iv) and Cabinet-approved Operational Guidelines for the BTC.
- 11 -



* progress should be accelerated on several aspects of the legal system, notably
planning and implementation of further modernization in business law and especially
legal process, supported by capacity building in legal drafting, judicial training
(facilitated by the newly established JTC), and perhaps a proposed IDA operation.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
26.   These are three:
*     First, even strong political commitment, a few highly competent senior officials, and
vigorous Bank support may be unable to prevail in the face of an unsupportive bureaucracy
which is at the same time threatened by rapid change and technically weak in some key areas
and thus empowered to thwart implementation of policy reforms. Effectively exploiting the
political commitment may require sidelining the through a mix of deregulation and powerful,
autonomous, new support institutions. The alternative of adopting a more patient approach to
supporting institutional change -- i.e. outside adjustment operations -- may mean accepting
the consequences of slower reform and, possibly, lost political windows; it is also doubtful
whether institutional reform can be pursued successfully if not linked to a high-powered policy
reform program.
*     Second, adjustment operations cannot be fully successful without broad operational
commitment and sharp focus on the agreed reform agenda within the political level. Ideally --
and this also was lacking in ISAC-Il -- the Borrower should have a strong ministerial reform
team within the Government (as well as at the officials' level), taking collective responsibility
for implementing the whole agenda. It is difficult for one or a few Ministers to engineer
comprehensive economic reorganization if their colleagues have different priorities or if
successful implementation of the economic reform program is not seen as an essential element
of the more partisan political agenda.
*     Third, even if bureaucratic and reform leadership conditions were robust, there is high
risk in using a single Bank operation to support a comprehensive reform agenda with many
interdependent features. The partial failure of ISAC-Il appears to illustrate the attraction of
the alternative approach of dividing the reform pie into more manageable slices, within each of
which the essential interdependencies can be addressed sharply and separately from the broader
complementarities among various areas of reform. Even if the ISAC-II program were the
most appropriate design under the circumstances prevailing in 1991-1994 when many
developments needed to be initiated at once to jump start the transformation of the economy,
subsequent phases of reform in Bangladesh should be supported by more sharply focused
lending and non-lending IDA instruments. These should be placed within a well coordinated
program involving a variety of donors, however.
- 12 -



L~~~~~~~i - ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     -      -1L-
C6                                                                                   '  .
0-4~~0
Cu                                                                          .  4    4   .                                                        ....  ..4~~~~.     ...  44
c.4-4 ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      b
-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                        g
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C U2,&--i
.'..4+..                 -x   ~~~~~~~~~~...    .*...    .
.0                                                                                                                               :      :~~~~~~~~~~~...      . ...          ..  ... ..  .....             .



Table 2:  Related IDA  Credits'
F ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   . .    . .   . . ... . .  :X E    :         7   RE7         fgC .   .    7f    ..  . .   .   .   .   .. . . . . . . . .
[0-;-;tit000tCredit flUe            Pu E :0  rpose             Month of           Sta t by
; :i: i: ::                  :                       ~~~~~~~Approval:;::   Jul 31iy0996  -; -
.1. Industial sectorPolicy and institutionalchanges to boost XJune87  S   s0ed   t;
(ad; justment)ceit          export, improve SOEsan  bei                                Ma ;;  0f ;;;  y   89;
2; Exportdevelopment:0: tProvide trade reit ad strnghenf;:     :  Aprilt890 t;; ;f-Closed 3t:;::;3it;:
: :tproject                 export su:7;::30 n:pport instittions:                      Jun  94 0::  ::tfg-   0;:y;:- :
%. Energy  setr;         0  :0 Resource develop:ment and  investment; ;: 0 0April 89: C00l00-;iosed\0 ;  
adjustment credcit 000   ratioaization of pricing;Institutiona  0 ;:i0:;   0:  -:Dec. 91
;4. Fincialw seto              Seto plic eform; fnancial           .       ; ;June9Dj00 Closed
05.Frivae sector         00   Financing investment lending and  ;;000May 92   ;0i;Disbursin
:6. t:Public -resurce         ;  0::: Imprvin  rtax uadministration and fpublic   May tj 92Q-:-;f- :E 3rd.: -anch
-7. Sixth    D000 technical 0X0 Strenghenin  caact invariu  area    July92              OnAg-oihg4 -?$ ;
Following operation;      ;   ::00:   ;0;t0000330 0:; 0t00;;0 ;0
1:.0 :Jute isector iadjustment  g;Subsector policy; andenterprise  E         : :      ;A;iJa. 9f4  0 tf  2nd $-tran-ebe
|?: credit                   restructuri5                      rnng                    pendin0;f : :; :;  g ---
1       Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related
objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.
- 14 -



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned2           Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          November, 1988
Preparaion     'wth prevlous Gvernnent                             March 89 - Oct. 90
with interitm Government                           Nov. 90 - Jan. 91
'with eected:Government      .                     MarchfApril 1991
Appraisal                                                          A Aug. 91 - March 92
Negotiations                                                        June 6-8 1992
Letter of development policy           -                             June 18, 1992
Board presentation ._-_'_._ October 27, 1992
~~~~~~~.   . .   . .    . .   . . . . . .  ..
'Signing .__-_._'_-_._-_. _.   November 6, 1992
Effectiveness                               January 15, 1993       November 5, 1993
Second tranche release                        August 1993              canceled
Project completion                         December 31, 1993      December 31, 1994
Loan closing                               December 31, 1993      -December 31, 1994
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
US$ thousands
FY93   -Y94                                  Total
Appraisal estimate             50,000                 50,000                 100,000
Revised to include
supplement (reflow)            53,510                 50,000                 103,510
Actual                              0                 53,600                  53,600
Actual as   -of estImate        -0%                  107.2%                    51.8%
Date of final disbursefent                 February 2,, 1994
2    As provided in the Report and Recommendation of the President.
- 15 -



Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants3
| greement       Section       Descr1ition or   vent                       C      e Vom e-
|   :  DCA0;i  *V30.01     Periodic exhge  ofviews    Freq u0- eent consultations.  -t.o pl ac
.. . V                                                     TP) :on progresseon  tne Project::: throgut Project mpe ntto
DCA ..     Proceduel fox pocurement          Complance  wasatisf      y.          -
DCA   ~     3.03       Maintnne of accounts ;  O veralsatisfaetoybut audit reports                0
|  00    ;  t 000  0   iand audi t?      ;;0            wer submtte  latet (ill iJs;leprtsae
;: DCA:  0   : i5.010    Efctveness cnditio ns0;0  A:- i;waiver   oe ondition -reaiong i^to
OcA                           OCI 7  ;  7:  5 iE;  e .;:z or-Tro igidi;:    :: th  preparation of an action plan for
: : i;: ; u  ;7:: : i: 00;:;000 :indutrial development -- wa giveng with0
31.02.  Pr   ~     ~      ~     EfecienssinNoebe  193afe
DCA       :eDt i 0:f                          ccouw:;:-;f:0:-tt: _Sles      t       t.Re-o4:   - rrepa
;::  ::i :9i:;:  S  ;i: ; a ndWEAud;        wa.U        W .J  (M. I. .. .; .; ..- ... ..0 ..9 :..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..       . . . . .   . . . .   .   . .   .   . . . . . . .   . . .   .
.   ;DCAt:;t 0 Schdle  3   Tranche relesecondi&tions          Severlsecndtranch  relaecniin
th, (extended) ,losing. . .d..t;  s c. uld
an  the  orrwer
Table 6:  Bank Resources:  Staff and Consultants                               I
staff-weeks
: :: ::iPrepartioVn t0 :: i  7 0   ;179. 6000iii0i  15.6E   - :+: ->-: Ahe0ep 9 ti5  2:9 4
Negotiation                   37.4                                   70                   51,5t:0 ::37     l-: : lt l t:iE:f | ?000 |00: ii-;:f::i00:::.  57T
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .    , ;,j,;... .......                      .. b    . M b, h   i
Coi :: impletion           -:     t i     -; --   8.0                                      8.0.30;  
3This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.
4 Including extensive technical work that might otherwise have comprised TA or ESW tasks.
- 16 -



Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Stag or
project yeof:    Monhth/year            -  -Number of         Days In          Performance
p r1'd         d e -0           t ly  a --- --6-- W---*-      'li - ---- ---                -
_____________________                  ~~ ~~persons5        il               rating'
1Identification through.       Nov 88                  4                22 days
appraisal                     Apr 89                   3                17 days
Jun 89                  2                10 days
Jan/Feb 90             2                 15 days
May 90                  3               .16 days
Jul 90                  3                 8 days
.   Recon, stde&rv.flon. wh  Nov/Dec 90            3                I I days
: bunh9i Cow. - -     Jan 91                   3                 7 days
,- ep'' reswn ed    ,     MaFwApr91d 4b                -              days
MAug91                   1                6days
new man(fe.to          Ag9.6dy
Feb/Mar 92              2.                17 days
,Post-appraisal through       May 92                  2             .1ldays
Board approval                Jun 92                  4                 3 days'           - -. .-. .
Supervision through          Nov/Dec 92               .3                14 days-
. effectiveness, . .   '- '   -. .Jan.93              4                 6. days            3
Apr/May 93,'            3                 14 days            3
Aug93                   3                 7days              3
-________________ _  -Oct 93              1                12  days           2
Supervion after               Mr 94                   3              :16 -days              S
.effectiveness                 May 94                 2                 10 days             S
. - . ............... Oct/Nov:94                      3 .                9. days            S
Completion                    .. :.J'uly 95           .                , ,: :-',,:',,,.,, .,- ....                          , 2'  - '.'   .    '.' ''' .6 days  _
5     In addition, most missions were joined by one or two resident staff.
6     Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590.
7     Negotiations were conducted in Dhaka, June 9-11, 1992.
- 17 -



0)        0                                                        C) -~~~~~~~~~~Z ;S, ". 0L
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l
O Cs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
('  04L  090
0'     "~~~~~~
0               ~
I                                                  .~~~~~~~~ ......
i i,  G                       i               . i40                W    ti  ,    i i 0-    4'-4o  i i'0    t a i                                                                p -     0  i Ab: 
Q                                                                                              00
CC         :: : :t            : I    :       ::  :   :::
0".ff  0  C Ca#C0 %                   000t-CC UtCC N                              IACCO                 0'4CCLA0%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qv   Oi.ILOCW N~ t
II   ;                         - :   ~        t ::  :                    4t        0 :j: ::::  : : :7 :::7           ;:         :               ::: ;; ;7~ ;                        :
6            A                                                                   '-P..CC             rOOK a  N          CV:
0  .  |  : : -:: 7 :: :: 7~~~~~~~~i                                                                                : :%no >
...     .. ..   .    ....    . :  :4p   :    :  0   i
Cs    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ -CD
0 -     : - :0i :' fw .p....   p.  i...                                       ...                :                                                                                          : ....  ..
.. oti%OV ,-4 A  WV                                                                                                                 CD 0  o   :
g                                        o     E   o:  f: :::: ::::::: i::f :ff............... 7:ff :E:::E::f. . :   . . . . -  .   . .   .   . . . .   . .::::.   :   . . . : : . . . . .:   . . . :   . . . .:  . . . .::    . .   . . :     . .:7
.   .     .,              'L                                                                                                                                                     o TEi i    i i   i  i   i w  i:   1    2 
:   2;   8        w      f W         000 -  0 0 X    0>   S S42 00w 00 390    t$%    f9   D;00    ffr kn >               :: 0     ;     w   t00 ~l                       ...  
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.             .     ..::..;.  .    ; f7. ..   ...    .;:f: ......t                     : S;:::. ..X: : i:     .    .   ..... -
o e, ^ 7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                  . -    I:-::7     ,:-: 7S,i         .  ...:: .: . ....  ...   ....  ...   .. ..
A.-                                                                                W~~~~~
Nb.)  N    IA        0 4 4               Vt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...  W   4
N~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~~.~V N   4tAo           o        AO       ~s      o 4          W         W    A        k    tA 4            0 A         O    .O N              4' aC  1
O~~O                     b WiS :: : 7 A :S:'.00:0%4    ':::r.4  010*-f IsA .-' Ct 0 f.0-: ANtef                                             O:::. J- ::;AS::.sS:::fi.Q..:                V
..        .      .. .........  1..        ............a                                      4  .  
4    ......    . ...  .... ...A                           0%:::  Ia;::: C.   .i:          O W       A :                                                           V; .:
CC R   0   >   :: fiV90:0:;: i:iti:D:f:00: :iT?000:; :;X::000:; ;VV44141O:iV::;-f:::'St; ;;::fii'-00:.f:tA0 %LA'di-.:fCf::fC::  O 4 :1.....4. ....A. ..:.I.....
X   P   g   .      - ::  V 'ME 200 ~~~~~~~~~Ar:  : OV w. :i:  .:::   .::                 ... WW!                     LA.t            LA000;:  LACE  W:::f:  b4:X    i!t;::iT>:
0  :    :S    :E it?\S::;iitiw:E ::;sty'   A:f9- :ff..::'U.0.  . ..  .-0 ...E  .i;E ;  .t                                          ...     ...:;:f:  ..;f:f  ;.000fS? '-;;- :-



Appendix A : ICR Mission Aide Memoire
BanLladesh: Second Industrial Sector Adiustment Credit (ISAC-Ill
Implementation Completion Report Mission, July 1995:
Aide Memoire, Revised
1.           Discussions were held between concerned GOB officials' and an IDA Implementation
Completion Report mission comprising Charles Draper, Sona Varma and Khurshed Alam during July
8-13, 1995 to discuss the implementation and operation of the Second Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit (ISAC-II) which had closed on December 31, 1994.2 The officials represented the Economic
Relations Division, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Industries, Ministry of Law & Justice, National
Board of Revenue and its Duty Exemption & Drawback Office, Bangladesh Bank, Bangladesh Tariff
Commission, Board of Investment, and Export Promotion Bureau. A draft of this note and attached
matrix (Annex 1) was provided to all participating agencies on July 13, 1995 in order to solicit
comments which could be reflected to form the aide memoire of the mission. Agencies' written
comments have been received and reflected in the text and/or matrix; they are also summarized in
Annex 2.
2.           The mission enjoyed detailed discussions with each of these agencies on the progress
made in implementing their respective parts of the ISAC-II program, and on the need for their
subsequent participation in preparing the Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation as an
appendix to the ICR. The mission wishes to record its appreciation of the each agency's very helpful
cooperation. Since the more detailed views of the Bank and the Borrower will be contained in their
respective sections of the Report, it was agreed that this aide memoire could best facilitate that
process by comprising largely the attached matrix, to record the current status of the policy actions
listed in Schedule C of the President's Report.
3.           In addition, however, the mission emphasized the need to use the preparation of the
completion report as an opportunity for GOB, not only to take stock of progress on the specified
reform measures, but also to outline the current consensus on the goals and further specific steps
involved in continuing the reform process over the next few years. It noted that such consensus was
still strongly evident with respect to all three of the ISAC-II program's broad development policy
objectives, viz:
(i)   liberalization and rationalization of the import regime to remove controls and distorted
incentives and facilitate trade and efficient development;
(ii)   replacement of policy and institutional constraints on export growth by active public
promotion activities; and
(iii) replacement of policy and procedural constraints on private sector development by its
active promotion within a conducive legal, regulatory and incentives framework.
H.E. Mr. Morshed Khan, Special Envoy of the Prime Minister; Dr. Y. Farooq, Acting Chairman, and senior
colleagues, Board of Investment; Mr. Abdul Hamid Chowdhury, Chairman, and senior colleagues, Bangladesh Tariff
Commission; Mr. Khwaja Ghulam Sarwar, Member (Customs), Mr. Mubarak Ali Mollah, Director General (Duty
Exemption and Drawback Office), Dr. Zahid Hossain and Dr. Fouzal Kabir Khan, National Board of Revenue; Mr.
Shoeib Ahmed, Joint Secretary (Export), Ministry of Commerce; Mr. Shah Abdul Hannan, Deputy Govemor, and Mrs.
Joslin Landell-Mills, Advisor, Bangladesh Bank; and Mr. Shah Jahan, Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance.
2     It had been decided to defer the ICR mission until July 1995 to enable the Report to reflect policy and institutional
changes, consistent with the Program, which the Government might make by the end of FY1994/95.
A - 1



An outline of further actions planned to achieve these or other relevant objectives could constitute
the 'operational plan" for sustaining and deepening the reforms.3 This would meet IDA's formal
expectation of such a plan to be available at the close of adjustment operations.
4.          In this connection, the mission was very pleased to note that good progress had
continued in implementing several aspects of the ISAC-II reform program since the Credit itself had
closed. In particular:
*     both the Import and Export Policy Orders are in advanced stages of preparation and
were expected to consolidate policy decisions consistent with the program, particularly in the
relaxation of regulations affecting exporters;
*     the tariff changes announced in recent Budget included a further reduction of the
maximum nominal protection rate (to CD 50%, plus LF, AIT and textiles VAT), and, while
other changes may have increased effective protection for some activities by lowering rates on
inputs, this would be reversed easily by subsequent steps in lowering the maximum rate;
*     officials expect progress to continue on the phased elimination of the 'license fee" and
the few remaining user distinctions;
*     as the BTC's study on the textiles subsector is proceeding apace, there was a good
chance that the basis would be laid shortly for removing the excess protection given by both
import controls and unequal VAT treatment accorded to imports and domestic production of
fabric;
*     after a delay, momentum is now being resumed by the PM's Task Force on Investment
promotion, expected to lead to a comprehensive program to support private sector
development;
*     the performance of DEDO continues to improve with (a) most applications being
cleared within 3-14 days of receipt of export bills, (b) efforts under way to reduce the frequent
delay in such receipt, and (c) plans under active consideration to involve cornmercial banks in
the payment process; and
*     institutional strengthening of BTC, already well advanced, is expected to continue with
the help of a further technical assistance project now being developed, as well as with the
return of the staff undergoing training abroad.
4.           The mission also emphasized the need for GOB to continue to press forward on other
aspects of the program initiated under ISAC-II, where progress has been less impressive so far. It
drew particular attention in this regard to:
*     protection - continuing the tariff reform and removing the import controls on some
fabrics, salt, eggs, sugar, petroleum products, used machinery and vehicles, and a few other
items;
*     import procedures - accelerating progress on streamlining import procedures through
ASYCUDA and voluntary PSI (although the mission welcomed the NBR's continuing efforts in
that direction through further computerization that could include a proposed valuation
database to replace tariff values);
3     To assist the Government's preparation of such a plan, the mission agreed to provide a draft of an IDA report in
preparation on 'Industrializing Bangladesh", which includes suggestions for continuing progress on most items in the
reform agenda supported by ISAC-II.
A - 2



*     promotion - overcoming the obstacles that have hampered the necessary development
of three important institutional mechanisms for promoting export oriented investment: the
BOI, the EPB, and the proposed matching grant facility; and
*     legl reform - regaining the loss of momentum (apparently caused by delays in
operationalizing the Law Reform Commission) that has beset the initial steps in reforming
both business laws and judicial processes which had been expected to be taken within the
ISAC-II program period.
Since each of these remains important for achieving policy objectives that were agreed under ISAC-II
and remain valid, the mission suggested that the Government might use the opportunity of the ICR
process to recommit itself to implementing programs of action to complete the reform agenda in these
areas too.
6.   It was agreed that both sides would take these considerations into account when preparing
their respective section of the Report.
Retised to reflect the
agencies' comments
March 14, 1996
A - 3



Annex I
BANCLADESH: SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ISAC-f
Status of DCA Schedule 'C' Policy Actions by July 1995 (updated March 1996)
POIYORECIVE                           MESRSTM2 BEOR CRDI APPROVA                                 ACIN TO BE TARE DNFA CREDIT0   STAU DV JUL 19S                                    19
::'S00:tS''.'--'#:fi,00,  :':-::; L''f .f.f',-........... ,;r  i - .. .. '.. m - - ,                                                     ..   ..+ .. ..iS  . ;  ;
Liberallizatioa and rational-3         mnouMnIizetdfs a-AMiat1                  1?oky
iztion-  ciftREicmport regme:         (ff1).t: ;; E:;A: T:: : :;; ::: ::. :: :       :::;
to rmv  cotl  and                                                                                Ef:fe:tiven00. Public00--000000;:;0E00  nmeuuotnstofus: tditn:: :
distorted incentivesand               * oos po    to aow       iq..  bias in trade regime over   tam gol of tde .fo. : effeive. prote
facilitatetrad*e and efficient         live -Sied inFY93 Budgesped  gemh;t  tht this             reduced totow leves reai'ling nuratiovmfly       Coal uneiucdIa  TC pa          ddetes an
prucion                                nlt %fawrtdionr&xe to loivl prviln hi    coipeitv dvlopingm cwtrie(l g hiuso                               FY95 Budgeflsonal pRgm toad It
t .t. ....  d.ve...ng o..ies .                         in BTCp.licyguidelin                             pnde .ver.p  three Budes
A. linn 0ControlsU                    *IteplaoNspcitive ititnegative& ueistin                     Effive:n tess.pen ioPO S:                        Test motlycdifieh
. ~~ ~ ~ ... ..    .    .   ........                             : -
1i985,cneinginay ofih QR*ES i te fF0by 4dgit co:de         publiito ad public aootmt of the                           
Removal of prohibitions and           theselist cnindas  te o nr Lit in1989. No oetion            removl of:               :                       Progressive CLdeleton trugh F93-FY9s5
adnmstaiversntiosand                 ctdifulnvditdu rB:eovl1991.                                    a) al but agreed CLte; a t                     but control rman MaiE) nfbric sal,
requiirements,other than reasonable                                                                 b):  ;   :t0:07  :; ;::i :::  all :b311ut agred, codifiedIPO textitenu,  eggsuga,  peftrolumproducts,usdt
controls fiar nont-trade reasons.     * Phaed rebioueaving 193 HS5-4 coes :on CL plus abou          4cpmssboos,:                                   nmtchhncery/velddes, and a few oile iters
130 poups of oher IP  rstritilonsi I)textin Junle1992.      4) impowtfinctions of CCIE n t neddfor         Some wrere remtoved hutt rebuposed.
Contols n plinscual_ ius/pacaging rviewed,                 rentained QEs:, and?           :::
0 i: 7: :::::   V           :   ~~~~~~e) eprmitactivitiesof sctor Ministreswith            Passtboosaboished,C  IE cntraced, and
* OB agentto abolish most CL code items & IPO text         conseqent retucturnrg oCIE#BOJher               pennlt atvlties reduced, hu IPo for 1995-
povuisin including passbooks & odher procedr:es not needed      agea:ies' funtnions.                        2000 delayed (Mar. 96) and nmay tot reflect
for the retand cotoa   t.e:                                                                                 rmnoval of .1 redundan procedurs
a) 39 of present codes    icuit pharmacuticaliptl &      Second trandtc: Remtoval of remainingontros
txile itEu & controls fo raide resnstansferred fromt IPO    apst frown agreed non-trade reqireents.
text, reandfor FYf93 only,
b) 54:ef preen odes lit non-trde reasons, and
t;) otlber rsmnfrPSi iiiSp(tC tqJSSilC reqmnes codified
own C:L (1*41 frontiPO text). :::
A - 4



POLICY-OBJE :-VES                    MEASURESTAKEN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL.    ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT    STATUS BYJULY I   MARCH 199
R  Tadftstrltu're                    * ISC-suopprtedfationalization during 1925-90 btdmaximumn  Effectiveness: ImplementatiosqbyOTS              tsaeeed biFY94.
a:ustou duty (CD)rate r     150  witIh 200-350 hfor 12   publication) of agee LF and A1T chnges p
Comwessiol and rductin  f            luxury podup;                                             followig CD ate changes:                       Furtherh S                  owing
rates ald sim fcation of                                                                         a) apart Gun 4 ageed product-groups, all now  estimated ector  EPR average to ril to 46%
insnmients ine the: proteetive       .D-8elnt urhae (VI.) & regulaty duty replaed by           above 10O% to =<75% (modt) or 100O (some),     for hsdsaty and 29%/e for agrktmine.
elmemnts oimpottaxation to            I10%inrease in most CD rates below 100%. and a few        b) about half(by CY91 impot value) ofnow at   Dispersa  of nomInald ratesXll high: coesint
remove bias among users/             exenmtio/ cemninm rmoved, in 1991.                        100%to 75% or less,                            of variance 74, std deviation I9
iunpter  idtrc  stages and                                                                       C) abou ou-quarter (by CY9J impot value) of
sles of productin  and direction     * GOB appov   ofFY93 ps towards and FY94 roles for        now above 50% to below 5004, including         Maximum rate of CD4fLF+AI r-educed to 55%
Of sales.             -              ralionfiing CAtINAlTsdshIs:                               sipuicant inputs to a) & b),                  In FY96 (Lie. much beter tha expecd for
a ) C) as the eyprotive inlment in impott taxation       d)all now blow '7.5% to 7.5 or l5% exept     second tranche), reducig hport-Weighted
(with.VATISED r       u.                                   m agred itm atz,                             NfR average to about 20%. Effectve
b).no usa-defidCD rat;                                   a) consolidation to eiTninite distinctions beween  proect  rates stl fairly high and diperad,
c) eight CDOlewls: :0, 7.5 15;:30, 45,40, 75 k perhaps  tsm (all) & bwen siilar produa  within HS-4   hoever, becaust
100% withb                                              rdgs ( )                                          ae  of bkput  itth zero and low rates ha
* zeri for-spee nc4rd raaa                                                                              been expanded, an
'7.5 firspeciled priary inpt,                            Second tranche: Implementation (by OTS          user distdctions remain for electrical,
* 15J30145 for mon, w/scmuinal goods,                    publication) of                                phannaceutlcal and lwec"ldde.
* 60MM5/fl    un nm r wrC ageeOK,O                         a) dual Cl) maxina -
(sm FY93 excepio:- see Effecovessa)7 *75%5o for BTC--pprovcd time-bound inhustry                        LF retained except on zer-CD Items and raw
d) LCAiumk fee (lF) applied as temporry revenue        adjustment programs (perhaps 100%a in a few   materals for some Industries
measu  in FY93;                                          agred ses),
e) Advance income tax aippliedto ali tayer impotams     50/o for other inpons (acceptable revenue
coideratio  pemnting),
b) other CD adjumenss needed to noke
eflive protecion moderate Rif most activite
any exeptions beingetiicitly ontthe basis of(BTC
rewmendatios
c) elmintion of LF.
A -5



POLICY OBJECTIVES                    MEASUREStAKIEN BEFOR CREDITAPPROVAL                      ACONS TOSBE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT    STATUS BY JULY 199/MlC 1996
C.; Tradeneutral Taxes-: a0::o VAT lealted &extcted  1991 to tepleimportsa                    Effectene:nplenteniTioo(byOS                   Tanona:l arrAngemet fr FY94w  bieen:
...... .....  ...... .........-; :700ttax(SI).&domestecied ED) bu:iosd only  t           publicaion)eofstades    itfor leves oter                2moreye            peVAT
D e ;eqnn of COl        ::DbO        innis ot textils& cane other 4meic prothEiaexenqn;  7   CDIfISAIT with: saicor ceues to VAT,            exemptio rtied  on textilehiupsia
taxation  .. .eplace....    ra -       qpnt x.. (BED e ..n.a.few  p . . .(foYATxet domsitexiles) and BED.
juxstfiedi.... ... .n  ..t . . .         S  A d        :s 0s(M0      U 0        *Wy: pf ncnu yo  vc ed amsorexted toinputsrfote poultrV
tax intrumentsX,    d emoval of:     aGOB approl o:                                           S&eond Irnche:  plee..tiion.(OTS.of& dary.inFY96.                         :        ::
prutecint eltqem ts in the-             a) rules fir SEDl at aevaul utsn sigtiflcantsxnge of final  a) r Imoith oaf trade neutral taxatiowi of
consumptii tax rinshmrntu              -dtohem lpoY cO posbleErevenuelo(sffromACDTdecdoase    textlesti                                       SD covegeareducedbdtEtere
b) pi. for .... .. text.e (aial i FY9                   b) Read  ED sedue t a m             CD       natosnipta  CDs f.l from 60%   4  or
reductio. fromm75/tonoOl to                osd45e5o            n  in fom  u     rO
D. nmoert Administration             * Frngnu do*ped                  attest =y    _:jatoric    ~Fijy..: I..mpot datandecuhfllaimpleenttintiafl
data cqtiledfor FY1 (BBS and C9I N    daily       1.w Satoisatior NBRsd anuneetsa opeationa fo    civdb F9n  otnu  ohpoe
Rasttly  addsrto                        gtlyptsaa in main Cutm beanby 1992;              reocln_scnetrcit  a. eovn                       lhuhpolsocre  iatmtt
in cuistoms clearance,  idt: FY93 reaie dtans  jsedobakaC:Y9I: :imps                          diaeacia an    ning NIlEstff thri.replace O  wIth ASYCUDA. More elaorate
auitableimfaoeincg of  trnsadmomMabae, IDA-finaned advin nkid,zees*3 NB                                                compstrtatio reunede butuaterexpitz b het
.  ~~ > t _asS S __.          . . .   .   . . .
bxstie  txs nnuotst   po ti data c n ateivities.   in   2. :at::istcty procedur aWd  pratmaonp of    plannig eay.                     ::    :
btipsctkwWasaums(PSIA)                    voreuttifomy  5 PSI 0$tdWWt0                    Volu W    entaw S effecive in. fY9om hn mroe
D.: Import Aadminmicesatrat990itonpoatngpeidwt                                                                                           gen? vluaionpreailngivera'san
......... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fImporte dand lacks dtyio asubst*ndeato
a OperalivFTedf SduI sad.I~)ntitd  Y2  muh               dtwfa.      NR                     n  b        sh-e  yF9a  cnm    ohpo
Rt ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ rebaod(ht   ot#ifre&tIFby  IPrP~                                                 .TVsat                          mayin  Alhuherobeplacd by  ipropoed vlution
(a .........ui ...  oa se . .... ...... ...... ....   ..S taatt       .....i   .JA ~ n   wih......ne               ad r ev ipm
*00  ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    cvtt*t  ietd,asyftaaeantt                    separat CS&d wi   ed A rUA. ASYCUDlAboase
; l- - -0 - t00 0 - 0 0 lrslOOWIDArev-ewJ;ohsImy 
-  >' A  1 6 0;zit  0:0 0 ;00 lihin 0 0JNK                 ... . ..                         mu . 0 W ;^ 0:i0 tpolkire"  w"r oadeafonbu
..........  ......   .   ....  .....~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .   . . . . .:  :: ... . . ....7         7    
tN 0b&+iiatYlOhs0I. ifass                       <i
A - 6



POLICY ORJECTIVES                     MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL                    ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT                STATUS BY JULY 1995 / MARCH 1996
I. Protection Analysis                * Effective protection studies unit supported by 1984-86 IDA-  Effectiveness:                            Legislation approved after delay.
firnaned Trade & Industry Policy Studies project; retained in  I. Announcement of intended BTC reform (in
Development of public capacity to     Bangladesh TariffConmission through FY92 but without     advance of legislation).                        Restalfing, training abroad and nae ofhearings
measure, to assess, and to provide    adequate expertise.                                                                                      commenced In FY94. Management (members)
appropriate and intended levels                                                                2. Conunencement of BTC operations with:        strengthened in FY95.
and pattern of industry assistance.    . Decision in principle taken in 1991 to establish more    a) satisfactory policy guidelines within or
autononous, better staffed Tariff Commission (BTC); IDA  approved pursuant to its legislation,           Modest 18-month TA contracted Nov. 93;
TA-V funded advisory service & study tour to help formulate  b) approved & satisfactory operating        consultants mobtized quickly but computers
policy guidelines & organization structure; Cabinet approval  procedures, organization, staffing, budget & TA  not operating until May 94.
with amendment- of draf legislation in May 1992.         requirements and work program
c) assignment of staff & mobilization of TA  Severd subsector studies completed by TA
consultants; good progres made on CGE
Second tranche: Satisfactory operation of BTC and  modeling and In-house trainig In basic
completion of FY93 studies_haringseports on:   computIg. ERP methodology under develop-
a) industries most affected by the tariff    ment (could enable genera protection review In
rationalization,                               FY97).
b) 'sensitive' impworts now subject to QP,
c) others agreed in selting the FY93 work    Tertile study now ongoing after long delay
prograrm, and                                  (could aid reconsideration of QRs & VAT)
d) first annual report with general protedion
review.                                        TAPP prepared for further TA in FY97.
A -7



POLICY OBJECTIVES                     MEASURFS TAKFN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL                      ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT                STATUS BY JULY 1995/ MARCH 1996
COMPONENT 11:
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
Replacementdof policy. and
institutionil constraints on                                                                                                                     National Cttee on Export, Minister's Tak
export growth by active                                                                          Effectiveness lIplementation of agreed BE-DS     Forete and better Export Council have
public promotionwactivitiet                                                                      action plan and TA requirements for FY93-94 incl:    facilitated Many reductions IR rCg. cousthaalt
a) establishment ofCabinet Ctee, Export       In FY94 & 95. EPO codIying these hang
Council, Assistance Fund;                       delayed to Manrch 96
F. Export Promotion Stratecy                                                                       b).EPB st rgfeing;
Stafftrcgtening and ITC & USAID assistance for EPB.       c) satisfadory concrete steps to relax regulatory  Plans to strengthen EPB not satisfctory (and
Provision of an integrated             and other export service agenciem                         environment possibly incl. bans on reexport &    not approved)
strategic framework for improving                                                                consignment sales (subj. to review).
and assessing policy interventions     * EPB/MOC preparation of strategy with IDA assistance;                                                     Assistance fund (matching grant facility)
and public serces affecting           GoB adoption and public announcnemt of comprehensive       Second tranche: Satisfactory impleminention of   fumded and policy gudenes reported to be
export developmenL                     Bangladesh Export Development Strategy 1992-2000.         firtherneasures under BEDS.                      approved, but not operationaL
G. World-priced Inputs                * Strengthening of DEDO office & stafffor improvemnent of  Effectiveness: Satisfactory operation of improved/  Specified SBW inprovements completed tn
DD schemes USAID expert & equipment mobilized to help     expanded SBW scwheme                             FY94. CD .& VAT on machinery (but not
Removal of the effects on export      computerization and procedures; coordination of DD and VAT                                                  spares) exempt for all export. SBW license
production costs offiscal             rebate procedures.                                         Second tranche:                                  period reduced to one year In FY96 unles
instrunments intended to protect                                                                 I. Continued expansion & satisfactory operation of  100% export (concern about leakge) New
domestic market producfion or tax  .   Public announcemnent & satisfactory operation ofdrawback  DD schemes including.extension oflsat rate       superlsed scheme for leather.
domestic consumption.                  schemes with:                                             coverage by 50 a month or other satisfactory
a) "flat"DDratessetfior.335 products,                   number.                                         700DD flat rates now set and further
b) nax pressing tinie reducedto,5 daysforflat & 4:                                                      disaggregasonunderway. Fast erprocessing
weeks foractual rate applicants:                          2. Continued expani    satisfactory operation of  the neorm bat often delayed by port-to-DEDO
the SBW scheme, including proatingachinery/     trnsferof exportdoes. Use of banku for
* Special bonded warehouse facilities extended to  2 non-  paresduty suspension fornon-100%exportm.        payment: heduled to begin Oct. 96,
gsntirms asw Atrial. Apeoval4public on cenoie of SBW
imFprove nsenqmansion to    iny by allowing:
*f a)nnbak-bc Cerdiazrngmnnl
.. .. .. . -: 
b advancet isnet of;      of theelteroif last or next
c)I :Jd uty nspasinon  maisny & spre (lO0%e rera
FYt93) w/ot nvlvnt ospno ring agenes, adi    :00
A - 8



POLICY OBJECTIVES                     MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL                     ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT    STATUS BY JULY 1995  MARCH 19%
COM{PONENT HI:
PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT
Replacement of policy and             * Intrationa/local experts mobilized for Ministry of
procedural constraints on             Industries studies to:
PSI) by its active promotion              a) identify legaL regulatory and procedural obstacles to
within a conducive legal,             industry (other than investren, import & export controls
regulatory and incentives             covered below & in inport & expost components);
frameworkL                               b) review of efficiency of fiscal, fiancial incentives for
expert, location, small industries, etc.;                                                                  FY94 action plas rather cursory, but PM's
c) review plans for BOI reorganization.                 Effectiveness: Fornulation of action prograrn for  Task Force on Investment Promotion given
further reforns in FY93 (in addition to those noted  broader PSD focus In FY95. Outlne produced
GOB approval and public announcement of some aspects of  below) and in early FY94, based on inter-agency  and discussed. Detailed action plan expected
program.                                                  review of MOI studies' findings.                in FY96.
HP Investment Controls                * In 1990, self- & private bank-funded projects deregulated,  Effectiveness:                                Fully implemnented In IP revision, but no
and sanction ceiling for DFls & NCBs raised to Tk 100 & 60  1. Revision of IP-9 1, including:              regulatory regime established for private
Withdrawal of public monopoly         mnillion including up to 49W foreign equity projects.        a) elirninatn ofBOIIBSCIC/BEPZA oversight of    investment in power & telecoms.
and intervention in private                                                                      DFI/NCB-funded projects & of all approvals,
investment decisions other than       * Industrial Policy 1991:                                  allocations, etc. other than for delivering      Deregulation studies undertaken by PIAG In
reasonable regulation for social/        a) raised DFIINCB ceiling up to Tk 300 nm,              incentives/services through BOLIBSCICIBEPZA;     MOI. Environment & satety not Included, but
environmental protection.                b) promised equal treatmnent for foreign investment,      b) elimnination of requirement for approval of  pollution control management study
c) set time liniits for DFI/ NCBfBOllBSCIC/BEPZA         production capacity changes, and                conunenced with ADB TA to Ministry of
approvals, and                                             machinery imporls;                              Environment.
d) replaced the indicative/priority/discouraged investment  c) curtailment ofteserved list to allow private
schedules by 7 groups of industries reserved for public   investment in power & telecom. (other industries to  No further actions taken In FY95 except
investment plus provision for regulated industries.       be considered), with public announcement thereof  importlexport noted above.
* Elimination of requirements for public listing of funs with  2. Commencement of study on scope and
over Tk 10 mn paid-up capital and for approval of public  implenentation of industrial regulation relating to
limited companies chief executive salary rates.           environment & safety.
* GOB approval of further changes to be made in Industriat  Second tranche: Satisfactory implementation of
Policy to remove project 4 other approval requirements.   further reforms including those based on study of
industrial regulation & review of reserved
industries.
A - 9



POLICY OBJECTIES                      MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL                      ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT                STATUS BY JULY 1995/ MARCH 1996
L Excbanee Controls                   * Return to flexible management in 19,91 aimed at maintaining  Effectiveness:                              Flediblt management h1a been maintabinedL
real effective rate (REER) at its November 1988 level.    1. Flexible managemnent of the exchange rate to
Liberalization of the exchange                                                                   allow the exchange rate to help, in part, protect  Specifled controls were streamlInet In FY94
policy regime to promote              . Removal of requirement for approval of transactions failing  production during tariffrationalization.     with BB guidelines Ised and BI moI 4th4ong
domestic production and facilitate    within transparent BB3/ BOC guidelines for                                                                  commenced to fIhilitate approvast above the
intemnational business                   a) remnittance of dividends and capital gains;          2. Satisfactory implementation of               guidelne  Since then, Taka made convertible
transactions.                            b) local borrowing of worldng capita by foreign-invested   a) the recently announced relaxation and     on current account but gudelnes and BO1
firns;                                                    streamlining of exchange controls; and           monitoring remain in place. Retention
c) remittances of salary (50%lo) and pension contributions.  b) automatic access to foreign exchange for  allowance increased hurther.
domestic farms' foreign training and consultancy
* Announcement of similar liberalization for:             expenses under satisfactory guidelines.
d) contracting, servicing & repnt of supplier credit & other
foreign borrowing;                                        Second tranche:
e) agreements & fee remnittance for technology transfer,  1. Continued satisfactory operation of flexible
f) local borrowing of term flinace by foreign-invested  exchange nmanagement
firms;
g) remittance of savings on expatriate employees' departure;  2. Satisfactory implementation of further relaxation
h) back4--back VCs against export LfCs.                 of exchange controls.
* Announcement of withholding tax for dividend and capital
gain remittance.
* Anrouncement of 10% export proceeds retention allowance
(5% for garments).
J. Legal Reform                        . Study on regulatory environmentt comrnmissioned by MOI  Effectiveness:                                   JTI Act passed and TAPP prepared but not yet
revealed need for urgent attention to laws & legal procedures  I. Satisfactory arrangements for establ. Judicial  operational. No progress on drafting staff(stil
Provision of an appropriate legal      affecting business.                                       Training Institute;and strengthening legal drafting  only two professional draftsmen in MLJPA).
framework for modern private                                                                     staff in Ministry of Law, Justice & Par]. Affairs.
enterpise                                                                                        2. Completioni of a review, and fomnulation &    Planning task fome in abeyance pending
announcement of a satisfactory program of reform  proposed Law Reforn Conunission which was
of business law, legal institutions, and legal and  approved FY94 but not yet appotnted.
administrative procedures.
Companies Act gazetted but without English
Second tranche: Satisfactory implementation of  version yet; Bankruptcy BiB stUi in draft; little
initial refonns.                                progress on othersm
A - 10



POLICY OBJECrlVES                     MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE CREDIT APPROVAL                    ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UNDER CREDIT                STATUS BY JULY1995 I MARCH 199C
K  Investment Incentives              * Contant (under PRMAC) to review dired tax stmcture,    Effectivenest oenceanent of study to prepare    Plan mde for study In FY93, ater delayed,
but witAot ugent ation to inives for busine  and         danges in the fsal regime affeting comnme and    but resamed w Wlocl coutants who reported
Rationalization of the corpotate      indary, study on incentives conmimed by MOL              industry with resetto coprte tax ratts,         in FY95
tax regime to promote private                                                                  holidays, allowances and deductions, as well as
investment in productive                                                                       adnminiatration, liability and appeal.          Mhior redudtion in corporate tax rates FY95
activities.                                                                                                                                    and FY9; tax hiday system extended S yea
Second trancbe: Satisfactory implementation of  rather tia abolshed.
initial fiscal refurms.
L  Investment Pf-omotIon              * FIAS prposals on BOX structure. operatio  and UNDP/    Effectiveness:                                  BOI reorganization plan drafted FY94.
FLAS TA aenosed by BOI in 1990; revised propoals sought  I . Fonnulation of action plan following review of  Mobilized TA helped further plannig, but
Identification and rapid rtmoval      in 1991 by Industry Seetary, new FLA repot preparedq      Task Force report                              resitane to staff rtducton prevented approv
of cwnstaints on and                                                                                                                           & execution.
disincentives for domestic and        * Bio transferred to PM's Office with upgpded Executive   2. Implementation of approved BOI reorganization
foreign investment.                   Chairman (but old premises and staffretained             under new mandate, appointment of qualified Board    Meawhile BO1 top namgesnnt Airther
menber substantial restaffing of secretariat, and  hnproved and service procedues streamlned:
* Project document sigwed by GOBO JNDP/FLAS.             mobilization of TA                              regitration delaya reduced. Numerous
external campaigns nounted hn 1994-95.
* Establishmnent of publicaprivate taskfosce wih broad swope to  Second tranche: Satisfactory progress in BOI
form proposals on investmern pronotion.                  operstions and other agreed mechanisms to pomote  Acts (BOI and Foreign Pvt lnvcstnent) still
and facilitate foreign and domestic investment in all    under revison.
sectors of the economy.
PM's Task Force produced preUlminary report
on broder promotlon program focusng on
foreign hlvestment, but rm proposab awaited
A - 11



Annex 2
Summaru of Agencies' Comments on Draft AM
1. The Board of Investment agreed with the status shown for PSD in the July 13 matrix, and
provided a resume of the implementation of ISAC-Ifconditionality on investment promotion. It
recalled that the BOI's effectiveness had been raised by its transfer to the PM's Office, the
appointment of a senior Secretary as chief executive, and reorientation of its role reoriented from
regulation towards promotion and facilitation. Internal organization is still in process, however,
awaiting approval of recruitment rules as well as MOF approval to enable restaffinrg. Amendment
of the 1989 BOI Act and the 1980 Foreign Private Investment Act are also in progress.
Meanwhile, the sanctioning of private investments by any of six agencies has been replaced by
automatic registration with the BOI (for firms without BEPZA or BSCIC sponsorship); the need for
BOI approval of DFI/NCB financing has also been eliminated, along with the ceilings on such
financing; and prior permission is no longer required for expatriates' remittances, technology
transfer fees, and foreign borrowing terms that fall within prescribed guidelines. Private
inuestment is now permitted in power, telecommunications and domestic air service. Some
elements of an investment promotion action plan have been implemented, and a more far-
reaching action plan to remove constraints to foreign investment is in preparation by a high-level
task force. A moderate but targeted promotion campaign during 1994 and 1995 has featured
media materials, overseas missions and conferences, with events in Japan, Korea, Singapore,
Malaysia and Italy, as well as a Euromoney conference in Dhaka and a UK investment delegation
to Bangladesh.
2. The Ministru of Industnv also referred to some of the above deregulatory measures, and
added that the high-level task force's draft report had been presented to two meetings. It also
reported that legal, regulatory and procedural obstacles to investment had been studied by MOI
under the PIAG project, and that a study on the management of industrial pollution control was
under implementation, with part-I complete and part-II to be undertaken shortly.
3. The Ministru of Law. Justice and Parliamentaru Affairs commented that as of July 1995,
appointments to the Law Reform Commission were expected shortly. The law to set up the
Judicial Training Institute had been enacted.
4. The Bangladesh Tariff Commission provided a note discussing several analytical issues
raised by the mission. First, it recorded its agreement with the mission's observation that
lowering input tariffs may have raised some products' EPRs, which could be revised by lowering
the maximum NPR in subsequent steps. In more aggregate terms, however, it pointed out that
the Revenue Board's estimates based on the FY87 I/O Table showed significant declines in the
sectoral EPR averages for industry and agriculture. Weighted by value-added at world prices,
these aggregate averages fell from 33.5 to 29.3 percent for agriculture and from 64 to 45.7
percent for industry between FY93 and FY95. The BTC felt these rates were not 'high" for a
least developed country. Second, on the level of nominal tariff rates, it noted that the Bank had
reported Bangladesh's average of 26 percent to be below the average for other South Asia except
Sri Lanka in 1994, and that the import weighted average had fallen frrm 24.5 percent in FY94 to
only 18.8 percent in FY96 (NBR estimates). Third, the BTC discussed the mission's concern
about increasing dispersion of protection. It agreed that the NBR-estimated coefficient of variation
in nominal rates had risen from 68.4 in FY94 to 73.8 in FY95, but argued that (a) standard
deviation is also a widely accepted measure of dispersion, and the SD in nominal rates had fallen
from 24.5 to 19.2 in that year, and (b) in the estimated EPRs themselves, the standard deviation
A - 12



among 40 trade sectorsfellfrom 72.2 to 26.3 in the same year.' Fourth, on non-tariffprotection
for textiles, the BTC questioned the mission's expectation that the textile study could lay the basis
for removing excess protection provided by QRs and non-neutral VAT. The local experts it had
employed to study factory data would recommend policy changes to encourage productive
efficiency in textiles and external competitiveness in garments, but the nature of these changes
could not be anticipated. Fifth, the BTC doubted whether the QRs on otherproducts could be
removed without detailed studies.2
5. The National Board of Revenue also questioned the mission's observation that effective
protection rates (from CD/LF) remain high and dispersed, and requested the supporting study.3
On trade neutral taxation, it clarified that SD coverage expanded in FY96 when CDs fell from 60
percent to 45 or 50 percent. On import administration, it noted that work on developing a
valuation database was in progress and The World Bank had been asked to identify price data
for automobiles, chemicals, consumer durables and other consumer goods. Finally, it reported
that two-year SBW licenses were still being issued to 100 percent exporters; other industries'
licenses were now annual.4
6. The Dutu Exemption and Drawback Office agreed with the July 13 draft.
7. The Export Promotion Bureau reported that the Government had approved policy guidelines
for the matching grant facility, and that 'disbursement offund is under process."'. It also
reminded the mission that recommendations on its own organizational strengthening, which had
been made by a committee headed by the Additional Secretary, Commerce, were under
governmental consideration.
8. The MinistrE of Commerce provided comments on both importpolicy and export development.
It endorsed the BTC's reservations on tariff rate dispersal and also on textile protection from
QRs. However, it stated that theforthcoming IPOfor 1995-2000 would reflect a review of such
controls on a number of products, including textiles. The new IPO would also reflect recent steps
to remove redundant procedures. In the area of export development, the Ministry underscored
the important roles played by the National Committee, the Promotion Council, and the Minister's
Taskforce in resolving impediments, and promised that more constraints would be removed soon.
It also echoed the EPB's comments that recommendations for strengthening EPB were still under
consideration by the Government, and that the matching grant facility was "in the process' of
being made operationaL
9. Banaladesh Bank had no written comments. In the interview, its management defended the
retention of guidelines (mostly annual or ratio ceilings) for various forms of outward remittance as
a defense against capitalflight.
1     This situation could occur because the SD did not fall as much as the Mean did when a number of input
rates were changed to zero; although the SD may be "widely accepted" as a measure of dispersion, it is not
normalized over the distribution of rates and thus is a weaker measure than the CV, especially if used as a rough
2predictor of EPRs.
The BTC management also gave the mission a detailed matrix describing progress to June 30, 1995 on
the technical assistance activity "Institutional Development of the Tariff Commission, Phase II" a subproject of
IDA's TA-VI Credit.
3     The mission had used the NBR Advisor's estimates for FY95 and its own assessment that the picture
would not have improved in FY96 when more low or zero rates were set for input goods.
4      It remains to be clarified which industries have one-year licenses.
5     It remains to be clarified (a) whether the facility is actually operating, and (b) whether the policy
guidelines and management process are satisfactory.
A - 13






Appendix B : Borrower's Contribution,
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    Background & Objectives:
Government of Bangladesh requested the Association for a Second Industrial
sector Adjustment credit to provide balance of payment support, expressing its
commitment to review and reform the policies and procedures that hampered the
contribution of private sector to the industrialization process. The credit proposed trade
policy and regulatory reforms so as to stimulate and facilitate the restructuring and
expansion of potentially efficient existing industrial capacity and the development of new
activities that would effectively utilize country's human and other resources.
The credit supported the policy reforms in three critical areas i.e., (i) import
regulation and taxation, (ii) export development; and (iii) private sector development.
The proposed reforms were to be implemented in phases over a two-year period as per
an agreed action plan.
B.    CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS AND CLOSING
The credit was approved by IDA Board in October 1992 and made effective in
November 1993 and was originally scheduled to close in December 1993. After one year
extension, the credit closed in December 1994 without release of the 2nd tranche.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
(1)   The programme sought to implement, massive reform packages which involved
multiple agencies in different areas. In view of very ambitious reform objectives in a
single adjustment operation, many of the agencies were not fully convinced about the
out-come of the proposed reform activities because of inadequate study in the
respective areas. Some of the agencies (such as the Ministries of Industries, Textiles
and Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs) were not adequately consulted during the
preparation stage.
(2)   IDA's estimates for implementation of so many reforms in diverse areas within so
short a period and through one single adjustment operation seem to be highly
unrealistic. Although credit closing date was extended by one year from December 1993
to December 1994, the conditions for release of the Second tranche could not be met
and almost half of the credit (US$50.00 million) lapsed undisbursed. This is a lesson
World Bank may try to benefit from in the future.
D.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The objective of import liberalization has been achieved almost fully. Reduction of
tariff rates have also been achieved satisfactorily. There were maximum tariff rates of
100% and nearly 15% of all harmonized system (HS) items had rates above 100%.
Moreover, the tariff structure was characterized by numerous anomalies with import tax
incidence in the range of 75-100%. Tariff reduction and removal of anomalies began in
1992-93 and gathered momentum in all the subsequent budgets. Presently the average
Not edited by Bank staff.
B-1



tariffs is only 26% with the highest rate of applicable duty set at 60%. The import
weighted average customs duty rate in FY 95-96 has been estimated 18.87%. This rate
was 24.5% in FY 93-94 and 21.3% in FY 94-95.
2.    Substantial change and improvements have been made in the Import Policies.
Import controls and almost all non-tariff barriers have been removed gradually and at the
same time simplification and improvement of import procedures have also taken place.
Presently there are quantitative restrictions on only 8 sensitive items and a few items of
fabric. Because of delay in the textile sector study, decision on the restricted fabric items
could not been made as yet.
3.    Tariff commission has been reconstituted and strengthened. The commission
conducted a Textile Sector study by the local consultants financed under TA-6 credit.
Decision relating to removal of restrictions on fabrics and introduction of trade neutral
and uniform taxation of textiles is expected to be taken by the government of
Bangladesh after due consideration of the finding and recommendation of the study.
4.   Import policy for 1996-97 has been published. Redundant provisions of the
previous policy have been omitted. Substantial changes and improvements have been
made in the current Import Policy.
5.    Several policy impediments have been removed and major policy improvements
have taken place in the export sector. Duty drawback system has been improved,
special bonded warehouse system has been expanded for the export oriented units in
almost all sectors, controls on exports have been removed, long-term export
development strategy (1992 -2000) has been adopted and consultative mechanism
established. Policy guidelines for Matching grants has been approved by the
government for export diversification.
6.    Regarding Private Sector Development relaxation of exchange and investment
controls have been made. Procedures for private investment has been simplified. Now,
Government is playing promotional rather than regulatory role. Private investment in
power, telecom and domestic aviation are allowed and encouraged.
E.   SUSTAINABILITY
The reform programme implemented under ISAC-II particularly those related to
trade liberalization, tariff rationalization, investment de-regulation, exchange liberalization
has gained its own momentum and appears to be on course. There seems to be not
doubt that the reforms would be sustained.
B - 2



Appendix C : GOB Statement
of Trade and Regulatory Policy
Ministry of Finance
Ga.rnmerwe of the Peope
Dkbb
No.MF/ERD/IDA-1135/88                               June Ia. 1992.
Dear Mr.Preston.
Subject:- Second Industrial Sector Adtustment Credit
Statement of Trade and Regulatorv Policy
The Government of Bangladesh assumed office with a clear mandate
to accelerate the country's economic and social development through
renewed reliance on a system of free enterprise that should release the
energies of both small and large entrepreneurs in the Nation's interest. It
is anticipated that private foreign investment and the official cooperation
of the international community, including tne World Bank Group. shouLd
play important roles in this endeavor. This appiles in many fields, not least
the industrial development which must be a critical source of employment
and growth. The purpose of this letter is to request the Associatioan's
provision  of a second  Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit that would
provide  balance  of payments support while facilitating  our efforts to
reform policies and procedures that have hampered the contribution of
private enterprise to the industrlalization process.
2.   In requesting a Credit associated with trade policy and regulatory
reforms, we are seeking the Association's continued involvement in these
critical policy areas. Our program in this regard is among several sets of
aproaches forming what we believe to be an effective stabilization-cum-
growth  strategy.  Together  they  should  stimulate  and  facilitate  the
restructuring and expansion of potentially efficient existing industrial
capacity and the development of new indrtital activities that will
effectively uttiize the country's human and other resources. The reforms
that are outitned in this letter will complement similarly ambitious
programmes for maintainig approptiate fiscal and monetary policies, for
strengthening and lIberalizing the financial sector, and for rationalizing and
reducing direct Government involvement in production and commerce.
3.     In  the  proposd  reform  of trade  policy, the  Government is
cosolidating and extending the proceu of liberalization which has already
yielded a less restrictive trading environment In Bangladesh than in some
ConLtd..P/2.



other countries at a similar stage of deveiooment. Further. liberalization of
imports  and  exports  to  rationalize   production  incentives  will  be
accompanied by radical reductions in other types of constraint on private
investment and production. This reflects the Government's promotional
rather than regulatory stance towards private sector development. including
the provision of an attractive climate for foreign involvement in our
economy. Many of the specific measures that we plan to implement in
these respects are heralded in the new Industrial Policy announced last
year, while others are being formulated in accordance with principles and
goals discussed below.
4.    The proposed policy reform  programme for which IDA's support is
being  sought comprises  actions  in  three  areas...import regulation  and
taxation, export development. and private sector development---organized
into a two-year action plan. The import liberalization measures include the
commencement of phased tariff reforms scheduled to continue over an
additional three years for which further IDA support may be requested.
These will leave active exchange rate management. already an important
tool for maintaining macroeconomic stability, as the most significant trade
policy tool for ensuring the external competitiveness of industries and other
economic activities by 1997. The other elements of the liberalizatiion will
be completed more promptly. with actions scheduled for the beginaing of
FY93 and FY94. This applies also to the export promotion measures to
reinforce the import and exchange liberalization. as well. as to the actions
which more generally cover investment promotion. investment and exchange
control, fiscal incentives, and legal system reform to facilitate private
industrial development.
1. IMPORT REGULATION AND TAXATION
lmport controls
5.   The import liberalization will occur, first, by completing the process
of  phasing  out  quantitative  restrictions  on  imports  and  otherwise
streamlining import procedures, initiated under the first Industrial Sector
Credit. All but 93 of the items/entries now on the Control List will be
freed for FY93, along with the removal of most restrictions described in
the text of the Import Policy Order pertaining to non-CL items. Among the
latter are the present provisions pertaining to the use of local agents.
import permits(except for CL Items) and opening L/Cs and foreign-invested
C - 2



-3-
firms' production capacity. As regards importation of second-hand and job
lot goods. a decision on withdrawal of restrictions on such goods will be
taken on the basis of recommendations of the Tariff Commission. Since
direct controls will no longer be used to defend the balance of payments
or protect domestic industry (with the exception of just 39 products for
which decontrol will be delayed by one year). we will dispense with import
passbooks  and  entitlements  (except  for  CL  items),  and  all similar
procedures and levies that have been associated  with them, other than
offshore inspection and assessment. From  the beginning of FY94, the only
controls remaining  will be those  applicable  to  a short list of highly
sensitive items and those that are required for the non-trade reasons of
public  safety,  security,   health.  religion.  environment  and  social
considerations.
Tariff reform
6.   Efficient industrializtion will be facilitated through rationralizing the
tariff structure to ensure the more neutral treatment for export production
and import substitution that is consistent with the country's comparative
advantage. Industries serving the domestic market will continue to receive
some assistance from tariffs, but their levels will become moderate and
otherwise designed to avoid large differences in effective protection across
existing and potential domestic production. Exceptions to this will be few
and temporary, in order to minimize their adverse impact on consumers and
on other production activities which do not receive such protection. Among
the latter are export industries that must become a major contributor to
industrial development and employment generation while competing at world
prices, and other industrial activities that could operate efficiently and
significantly  enhance  industrial  added  value  if they  have  access  to
reasonably priced domestic inputs. Our rxedium term objective is to remove
anti-export bias in the structure of effective protection through a series of
annual adjustments to compress and reduce the tariff schedule. To keep
the process moving and give a clear signal to investors on its outcome. the
medium  term  program  includes the target of having effective protection
reduced progressively to reach low levels.
7.   Initial steps towards tariff rationalization have been taken already in
th abolition of development surcharge and regulatory duty, the replacement
of separate import sales tax and domestic excise by trade neutral value
C - 3



-4-
added tax (VAT) and supplementary duty (SED). For FY93. the Government
will complete the process of reducing the maximum customs duty rate to
100 percent with the exception of four product groups. in addition. about
half of the imports now rated at 100 percent will attract rates of 75
percent or lower. and the rates on items of considerable import value will
be reduced from 75 or 60 percent to 45 percent. These reductions together
will mean that about one-quarter of the imports now rated above 50
percent will come below that level. At the -same time, most concessions
and exemptions will be replaced by moderate rates applicable to all
importers mainly 7.5 or 15 percent. and other adjustments will be made to
rationalize the distribution of most imports among the 15. 30. 45 and 80
percent rates. The process will continue in FY94, when the remaining
inconsistencies  among  the  treatment  of  industries  and  comparable
production  stages  will  be  removed,  including  any  concessions  and
exemptions not removed already. At the upper end of the schedule, use of
the 75 percent rates (and if applicable 100's) will be limited to the
provision of temporary protection under time-bound enterprise or subsector
adjustment programs. Over the subsequent three years the maximum rate
will be further reduced and the structure further rationalized so as to
achieve the above-mentioned 1997 target.
Industrv assistance
8.  Enterprise or subsector adjustment programs under which higher than
the normal maximum protection may be allowed on a temporary basis.
would be designed to induce and enable the activities to operate with low
levels of effective protection within three or four years consistent with
removal of anti-export bias. They will have to be sanctioned by the new
National Tariff Commission(NTC). which will commence operations at the
beginning of FY93 under a forthcoming Ordinance. This institutional
mechanism will help accelerate the tariff reform while avoidiag sudden
withdrawal of assistance for those industries which. have been shielded from
foreign competition by high tariffs or non-tariff controls On competing
imports but which could adjust to the new environment if provided with
temporary tariff protection above 50 percent as they begin to adjust. To
ensure that the Government is provided with impartial and technicallyshould
advice in this regard. we have given the NTC a broad compass of factors
to  consider  in  formulating  its  opinions. and  we  are  accepting  the
C - 4



Association's assistance in strengthening its technical capability. As well as
helping define the FY94 tariff changes under ISAC-2, the NTC will
facilitate further cuts during FY95-97 to rationalize effective protection
and remove the burden 'sick" enterprises now impose on the Budget,
consumers. exporters and/or other producers.
Other imoort taxes
9.    As noted above, customs duty is becoming the only instrument to
supplement protection provided by the exchange rate. Other import taxation
is already trade neutral to a large extent. The Government proposes to
complete  the  process for FY94. The fee  for license  permits or LIC
authorizatioas. which we are retaining in FY93 as a temporary revenue
measure, will be eliminated in FY94, provided a satisfactory mechanism for
achieving revenue neutrality can be worked out.Another temporary measure
in FY93  will be the reimpositlon  of excise duty on textile and yarn
domestic products to complement the VAT which now applies only on
imports. We are currently reviewing a study on the restructuring of the
textile subsector, and will reform the tax structure affecting the subsector
in FY94 in a trade neutral manner. Including the imposition of VAT equally
on imports and domestic products if possible. For all other goods subject
to VAT, the flat rate of 15 percent is charged already on the duty-
inclusive value of imports and the ex-factory value of domestic products
alike, fully creditable at subsequent production stages and for export sales.
To help maintain revenue in the face of tariff reform, however, the VAT Is
supplemented by the other trade-neutral instrument, SED. imposed at a
few rates on an increasing range of non-essential final goods.
Import procedures
10.   The tariff reform  is being supported jointly by the removal of most
of the import control administration noted above and the strengthening of
import tax assessment and collection mechanisms to ensure both prompt
clearance of goods and the use of published operative tariff rates for all
Imports other than under international agreements or to implement duty
relief for export production. Three  key  elements  of the  procedural
innovations to make the lIberalization effective are: tha publication from
FY93 of consolidated schedules of current Import duties and taxes: the
forthcoming evolution of the customs Information system(CIS, established
with the Association's assistance In FY92) Into a fully automated system
C - 5



-B-
of customs datalASYCUDA. now being developed with UNDP assistance):
and. if  necessary, the  full implementation  within  FY93  of offshore
Inspection aad assessment by professional agents to replace the "tariff
values" now used to prevent under-or over-invoicing. In FY92. we have
Introduced a voluntary scheme for pre-shipment iaspection and "green
channel" clearance on a trial basis: we propose to conduct a review of this
jointly with (DA within CY92 to examine its effectiveness with a view to
agreeing  on  improvements.  perhaps  Inciuding  its  replacement  by  a
cornpulsory scheeme operated by agents under contract to the government.
M. EXPORT PROMOTON
Exooct strategy
11.    The Government recognizes that the import liberalization measures
outlined above will Improve but not fully equate the incentives for export
with those for domestic market production. Therefore our reform program
features the development and implementation of a comprehensive National
Export  Development Strategy.  1992-2000  with  emphasis  on  removing
constraints. expanding markets and diversifying the export base.
The first component of the strategy relates to the increased
emphasis being accorded to exporting by creating a new Cabinet
Committee on Exports. the purpose of which is to facilitate
positive support for exporters throughout the government and to
engage in a regular dialogue with the private sector.
The second component comprises a series of concrete steps to
effect  a  relaxatioQ  in  the  regulatory  enviroament.  Many
regulatory and administrative measures curreatly affect private
sector developmentJas a whole. while some are specific only to
export activities; to this end. we propose. inter alia. to review
the restrictions on re-exports and on "sale-or-return" export
shipments, and to permit retention of foreign exchange by
exporters. Initially five percent of proceeds.
The third component focuses on the critical importance of the
trade and exchange regimes. and in particular. the enhanced role
of the exchange rate vis-a-vis import controls and tariffs to
influence imports. ln addition. existing mechanisms for relleving
Import duty and taxation are to be further streamlined in order
to ensure world prices for inputs to direct and indirect export
producers(see below).
c - 6



-7-
Fourth. more effective institutional arrangements for promoting
exports  and  foceign  investment  are  being  prepared  through
restructuring programmes for the Board of Investment  and the
Export Promotion Bureau. as well as the encouragement of
enhanced private sector represeatational arrangements.
Fifth, exporters and potential exporters will be encouraged to
increase the volume of overseas trade through a series of positive
steps to improve product and market development, particularly
through improved export marketing techniques, inward investment
promotion, and backward linkages in strategic industries.
Sixth, positive support will be accorded to the export community
in the provision of utilities, transport and other government
services.
The seventh component recognizes that both the public sector and
the private sector are hindered by a lack of expertise that
reduces their effectiveness in overseas marketing. An extensive
range of short and long-term training programs are in the course
of preparation to enable both exporters and service suppliers
within the bureaucracy to more effectively avail of the increased
opportunities offered througb the export strategy.
World priced inouts
12.  Bangladesh has been trying for some years to implement an effective
regime to relieve export production of duties and taxes on inputs. and the
range of schemes now in effect comprises the Chittagong Export Processing
Zone and prospective Dhaka EPZ. special bonded warehouse (SBW) facilities,
duty and tax rebates. and Bangladesh Bank's administration of a 15 percent
cash  compensation  scheme  in  lieu  of  drawback  for garment exports.
Important advances over the past year Include the introduction of creditable
VAT, strengthening of the Duty Exemption and Drawback Offlce(DEDO) with
an expanded range of "flat rates" to cover 335 products under the drawback
scheme (including for 112 textile fabric items), and extension of the SBW
facility on a trial basis to some non-garment industries without requiring
back-to-back LIC financing.
C -7



13.   For FY93. we will streamline DEDO's procedures for handling drawback
applications to enable payment within five days for flat rates and one month
for actual rebates. and to implement an efficient link between VAT and duty
rebate. In parallel. further improvements in the SBW facilities are being
implemented to make any indusry eligible under any financing arrangements.
to allow advance import of four months' input requirements to established
exporters. to relax the requirement for 30 percent value added in the case of
high  value  garments  under  certain  quota  categories,  to  remove  the
Involvementof"sponsoring" agencies in machinery import. and to exempt duty
on machinery and spares. The last will be available for 1009s exporters until
a means of pro-rating the exemption for other export-oriented firms is
introduced in FY94. By then also. appropriate treatment of capital goods and
spares is to be incorporatd in the flat rate drawback scheme. Other
refinements already under serious consideration for implementation by FY94
include further expansion of the range of flat rates at the rate of about 50
a month. and mechanisms to promote enhanced value added through backward
linkages to indirect exporters (such as temporary admission arrangements for
fabric weavers and finishers supplying the garment industry).
M. PRIVATE SECrOR DEVELOPMRlNT
Investment control
14.     1 have alluded  already  to  the imoortance of reducing  regulatory
constraints on private enterprise, and to the specific efforts we are making
with  respect  to  the  import  and  export regimes. In  parallel.  we are
dismantling government intervention in investment decisions in several ways.
First. the Industrial Policy last year replaced all the investment schedules
with a short list of activities reserved to public enterprise. allowing free
entry in all other industries subject only to provision for the regulation of
some actlvitles. Among revisions to be announced shortly, we are further
curtailing the reserve list to allow private investment in the power and
telecommunications sectors. This would leave only airways and railways. arms.
ammunition and defense equipment and machineries, production of nuclear
energy, security printing and minting, and forestation and extraction of
reserved forest areas reserved for public Investment: we are initiating inter-
ministerial discussions to consider further contraction of the reserve list. We
are also commenciag a study to review the scope and implementation of
industrial regulations. with a view to limiting them to essential public policy
purposes relating to enforcement: this will be completed in time for
recommendations to  be  adopted by the beginning  of FY94. Second. the
Industrial Policy is being revised to elimiaate requirements for Board of
Investment approval of private  --                     contd...P/9
C-8



projects with loans from public financial institutions. and for all approvals.
allocations, entitlements  and  registration  by  sponsoring" or "patronizing",
agencies other than for the purpose of incentives or services provided through
the BOI. BEPZA  and BSCIC. Third. we have rescinded the requirement for
companies with capital above Taka 10 million to list their shares on the
Stock Exchange and the requirement for approval of chief executive salaries
for public limited companies in the private sector. We are continuing to
identify regulatory and procedural constraints and will remove them wherever
possible. including a second batch. to be agreed with IDA. by the beginning
of FY94.
Exchange control
15. As indicated, our need to promote export production drives our desire to
phase relatively high protection for domestic market production down as
quickly as possible, in favour of the more neutral protection provided by the
exchange rate. Yangladesh has a good record of exchange rate management
as a tool for stabilization. and we propose to use it more vigorously to help
develop our industrieslexternal competitiveness. In addition, we intend to
liberalize the excnange control regime in several respects at the beginning of
FY93 as part of our overall program of deregulating private enterprise. Thus
exporters will be able to retain  a proportion of gross proceeds in foreign
exchange  to  facilitate  their  business  activities;  we  are  committed  to
increasing tbe proportion  as rapidly  as circumstances  permit. Transparent
guidelines will be issued for advance approval of suppliers credit and other
foreign borrowing, for technology  transfer agreements. and for expatriate
employment: applications conforming  with  the guidelines will be approved
automatically and procedures will be established for the BOI to deal with
others within one week. Within Bangladesh Bank guidelines, approval is no
longer required for local borrowing of working capital by foreign invested
firms. nor for outward remittances to pay expatriate employees' salaries or
annual pension contributions. This applies also to remittance of dividends and
capital gains. for which tax withholding will replace the need to submit
income tax returns. In addition.we intend to allow domestic firms automatic
access to foreign exchange for foreign training and consultancy.
Legal environment
16.      Another  important  way  in  which  we  propose  to  improve  the
environment for private enterprise to operate efficiently relates to the legal
system   affecting  commerce  and  industry. The  removal of bureaucratic
interventions as outlined  above has enhanced both  the need for and the
C - 9



- 10 -
Government's ability to provide an effective legal framework. We have
initiated action to modernize our company law, further strengthen the
financial loan courts law. and laws governing the securities market and non-
bank financial institutions. tWith the assistance of FIAS, we are undertaking a
study to identify opportunities for streamlining and modernizing laws, court
procedures  and  judicial  performance   pertaining  to  such  topics  as
incorporation,  contract,  patents  and  insolvency.  Based  on  the  study's
recommendations. we expect to have a first batch of reforms designed and
implemented within FY93 to facilitate the establishment and exit of firms.
enforcement of contracts, protection of private property etc. We are also
giving  consideration  to  the  establishment  of  a  business  laws  reform
commission to help ensure that the legal system will always keep pace with
the demands placed on it to support the country's economic development.
Fiscal incentives
17.   Another field in which most reforms are proposed for the second year
of the ISAC-2 progran is the structure of fiscal incentives. A start has been
made with the curtailment of tax holidays to phase them out by 1995 (five
years sooner than their previous end date). and with other changes outlined in
the statement of development policy  which I gave you on  March  30 in
connection with the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit. Since
then. we have decided to move more swiftly in rationalizing those parts of
the tax system which affect the structure and performance of commerce and
industry. In addition to the removal of concessionary rates as part of the
tariff reform program mentioned above, and the removal of interest rate
subsidies, we are undertaking a study on fiscal incentives covering the
followirnareas during FY93 to make the direct tax regime more conducive to
efficient private enterprise: standardization and lowering of the corporate
income tax rate: tax holidays: the requirement for exempted income to be
invested in government paper:tax on dividends: tax on income from export
production: use of accelerated depreciation and/or investment allowances; the
deductibility  of  interest  charged   but  not  paid;  tightening   of  tax
administration  through  improved  NBR  procedures: liability  for directors,
managers and/or auditors responsible for financial statements: use of the
same accounts for tax and lending purposes: and establishment of appeal and
arbitration procedures independent of NBR. Based on recommendations of the
study, we will initiate necessary actions in the above areas to enable a first
batch of reforms to be agreed between GOB and IDA and implemented by
the beginning of FY94.
C -10



- 11 -
Investment oromotion
18.   We intend the Board of Investment to become an important instrument
for the promotional stance  the  Government now  has towards the private
sector. To this end. the BOI has been relocated in the Prime Minister's
Office. the status of its executive chairman has been enhanced. and further
organizational changes are now being made to reflect its new mandate. The
registration of new enterprises will be fully automatic by the beginning of
FY93. with the 301's sanctioning role completeLy eliminated. Instead, we are 
,making it responsible for promoting  investment opportunities, for assisting
investors. for helping us identify and remove other impediments to efficient
procurement, production  and  marketing  activities, and  for recommending
appropriate changes in non-tariff incentives for industrial development through
foreign and domestic investment. The assistance which the Association and
the   International  Finance   Corporation's  Foreign  Investment  Advisory
Service(FIAS) are providing on the B01 reorganzation should facilitate these
developments.  particularly  through  FIAS's  execution  of  the  technical
assistance project financed by the United Nations Development Program which
was approved  recently. Operational changes  will be introduced  from  the
beginning of FY93. with any necessary legal changes to be made later in the
year.  The  process  is  being  assisted  also  by  the  appointment  of  a
public/private task force to advise the Prime Minister on broad aspects of
private investment promotion. including but not restricted to the role of the
301.
CONCLUSION
Revenue and reserves effects
19.   Since the tariff reform  will be gradual and will involve some revenue
increases as well as decreases (i.e. the removal of concessionary rates and
replacement of quantitative restrictions will partly offset reductions in high
customs duty rates, removal of other import levies, and improved relief for
exporters), we do not expect the tariff rationalization to have a significant
adverse effect on public revenue even when taken alone. Moreover, some of
the lost revenue revenue will be replaced by trade-neutral SED to supplement
the basic VAT, and we anticipate a substantial improvement in duty
collection performance as a result of both short and medium term reforms in
border and domestic tax administration. As indicated. a key decision that we
may take in this regard is to expand the present voluntary pre-shipment
C -11



- 12 -
inspection  scheme  by  employing  professional  agents  for  the  offshore
inspection and assessment of duty. This is complemented by computerization
of the Customs Service with the assistance of the Association. United Nations
agencies and other donors.By carefulLy coordinating these various policy and
institutional retorms we expect them to have a positive net impact on
Government revenue. thus contributing to fiscal stability even as the trade
liberalization is implemented.
20.   Similarly, on the external account, we intend to accompany effective
exchange rate management with continued monetary and flscal discipline.
This should enable the liberalization to occur even during a period when
increased import demand could precede the expected improvement in export
performance.
Assistance reouested
21.   In view of the strong commitment of the Government to the reforms
outlined above. and given the close involvement of IDA in the prepaL'ation of
each of the program's components. I request the approval of the Seco.id
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit in the amount of S 100 million to assist
in the continued implementation of the reforms.
Yours sincerely.
(M. Saif ur Rahman )
Mr. Lewis Preston,
President
. International Development Association,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
C -12



MAP SECTION
S.






IBRD 24206R
'*>-                              L:F:Os iheBANGLADESH                                                                                                   1
j Tilnkulgoo         >   h                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRtC' B::LJNDAR ES
) r Ii io                  ~b                                                                              DIASION BOUNDARIES
5P                                        0ulmon -hss h                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES
\>                      '-: Run~~C Rgp'l    K.,srm
\    '  rsoypu                               .r  )                                 MILES   0             25            50
\,                       !                                        ~~~                         ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  -   ,
G. b-odho                                                 I  
- '     ,                           KILOMETERS   0          25      50       75      100
r'                                          -         -P-hr                S-oeger                  -
/   ,    ~~) Joypurhot            ~Jomolpur  3SepmGl 
J             ~~~NOO9GI.or           G Bogro
J       ,e~Iir! OfM-kmens'ngn                                                                                                             h
\                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~~~~~~Seze  n gor  oKsogn'  I: MoJl BOZG 'J
RA5ShAI I
i                              OTGnGOI                                                    r.;^X!OT-g.
INDIA                              kloPb-                                  CoG-zpur     .      .               F'
INDIAgtml                                 brohmon r                  INDIA
Ropbe,                 *~~DHAKAJ
CM h        d-g.          R. lb.0                             DA 
jn-enoldoh                                  Noroaengo                                                           |
o                ~~~~~Fo-dp-.
0? OMngAro                      Minshig-nip             ConriIIe .                        {) 
'o Chdpu,r
g   DJeSSO'     NoIO                 0Moderipir SP o p                                           *)
)'3Soitsro         c.   Bogererro              PBrclNshil&'h'4"' A
?                             , ~~~~~~1Jho,@f~hi   Bhf                                                 5I R        \5nit
otherio,n,ohostme'n                                                                       I,                             :rns       
The  bordories.  crulers.                                           o                                                  CHI-TTAGONG, 
denoior1nationls and  any                                                                                                                          - '  nsioliholn,
any oudgn,e,it onl the lepu
status ot ony territory
or anly endorsen,ent 
or acceptance ol such
boundaries                                .'."-r  
INDIA''                                                                                  ,''   -1' 
SIRI  
lANKA 
MARCH 'R99f-









IMAGING
Report No:       15866
Type: ICR



