Documen of
The World Bank
FOR OmCL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5816-BD       Type: (PR)
Title:  INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
Author: NICHOLAS, PETER                                    Repor No. P-5816-BD
Ext. :80428 Room:D9 101 Dept. :SAICI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDEMT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 72.2 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
OCTOBER 2, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket
of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as the intervention currency.
The official exchange rate as of March 31, 1992 vast
Tk  1.00   -   US$0.0256
US$1.00   -   Tk 39.00
(1 crore Taka  =  10 million Taka
1 lakh Taka      100,000 Taka)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
AIT     advance income tax                                 ICS      international competitive bidding
ADB     Asian Devetopment Bank                             IPC      Import Program Credit
88      Bangladesh Bank (the central bank)                 IPO      Import Policy Order
BEDS    Bangladesh Export Development Strategy             ISAC-2  Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(for 1992-2000)                                    ISC-1   (First) Industrial Sector Credit
BEPZA   Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority        ITC      UNCTAD/GATT International Trade Centre
BMR     balancing, modernizationandrehabilitation          L/C      letter of credit
B01     Board of Investments                               LCA      L/C authorization
BPDB    Bangladesh Power Development Board                 LF       import permit and LCA fee
BSCIC   Bangladesh Smaltl and Cottage Industries           HOC      Ministry of Commerce
Corporation                                        MOI     Ministry of Industry
8TC     Bangladesh Tariff Comission                        NOR      National Board of Revenue
CCIE    Chief Controller of Imports and Exports            NC8      nationalized commercial banks
(MOC)                                             NGO      non-goverrnmental organization
CD      customs duty                                       NIP      New Industrial Policy (1982)
CIS     Customs Information Service                        NOC      no objection certification
CL      Control List (in IPO)                              NTC      National Tariff Commission (replacing BTC)
CY      calendar year                                      OECF    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                       OED      Operations Evaluation Department (US)
DEDO    Duty Exemption and Drawback Office (in NOR)        OTS      operative tariff (and tax) schedule
DFI     development finance institution(s)                 Palw     private bonded warehouse
ECGD    Export Credit Guarantee Department (in SBC)        PCR      project completion report
ECGS    Export Credit Guarantee Scheme                     PIAG    Policy Implementation and Analysis Group
ED      excise duty                                        PSD      Private Sector Development
EDF     Export Development Fund                            PSIC    Private Sector Investment Credit
EDP     Export Development (Credit) Project                PRNAC   Public  Resource  Management  Adjustment
EC      European (Economic) Comunity                                Credit
EMU     Export Monitoring Unit (in EPS)                    OR       quantitative (import) restrictien
EPS     Export Promotion Bureau (attached to HOC)          RIP      Revised Industrial Policy (198oa
EPS     Effective Protection Studies (unit in BTC)         SAR      staff appraisal report
EPZ     Export Processing Zone                             SBC      Sadharan Sima Corporation
(E)SAF  (Enhanced) Structural Adjustment Fact  ty          SBW      special bonded warehouse
(of the IMF)                                      SDR      special drawing right
ESW     economic and sector work                           SED      supplementary excise duty
ETAr    Excise, Taxes and Customs Data Computer-           SEN      secondary (foreign) exchange market
ization (cell in NRR)                             SOE      statement of expense
FFW     food-for-work                                      TA-V    Fifth Technical Assistance Project
FIAS    Foreign  Investment Advisory Service (of           TA-VI   Sixth Technical Assistance Project
World Bank Group)                                  TIP     Trade and Industry Policy (Studies)
FOB     free on board                                      UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
FSAC    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                 UNIDO   United  Nations  Industrial  Development
FY      fiscal year                                                Organization
GOB     Goverrment of Bangladesh                           USAID   United  States Agency  for  International
HS      Harmonized Commodity Description and                        Development
Coding System                                      VAT     value added tax
IDA     International Development Association              VGD     vuwnerable group development
IFC     International Finance Corporation                  VID     women in development



FOR OFlCIAL USE ONLY
SECONW IUUSTNIAL SCO ADJi'
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pale NLU )e?
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUI4LAZY....................................  i 41.
PART 1.   COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY 1..........  I
A.    Background ...............................Ie 1
B.    Macroeconomic Framework      ............................... 2
C.    Stimulating the Productive Sectors  ............................. 5
D.    Industry, Trade and Finance .....                                  6
E.    Addressing Social Development Concern s ......................... 8
F.    The Economic Impact of the Reforms ...........................  10
G.   The Bank Group's Assistance to Bangladesh    ..................... 10
B.    External Financing Requirements ............................... 13
I.    Summary Assessment and Performance Indicators      ................. 14
PART II. THE PROPOSED SECOND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ......... 15
A.    Background to the Credit 9999999099999999999*999999*99999999...   15
B.    Description of the Major Policy Actions ....      ................... 18
Component Is Import liberalization       ............................ 18
Component II: Export promotion and duty relief       ................ 23
Component III: Private sector development       ..................... 25
Effectiveness and second trancbe conditions        ................... 28
C.    Credit Arrangements.9.9..9.. ..... . . . 99999999999999.32
D.    Rationale for IDA Involvement ...... ........................... 34
PART III.  RECOMMNEDATIO9                                                     37
LIST OF SCHEDULES
Schedule A: Major Economic Indicators ..........38
Schedule B: Timetable of Key Processing Events ............................. 40
Schedule C: Matrix of Policy Actions                                          41
Schedule-D: Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh ...................49
Schedule Es Letter of Trade and Regulatory Policy Reform ......5}........51
This tocumont has a msftdted distdbutbn and may be use by tcipets onyir SIe i *itfonnguce
of thm offcAl dutios Its contonu may no othoSso be dIsbsd without Worl Bank i uthodution.



POPLE' S REPUBLIC Or BANGLADESH
8ECOWD INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUIMENT' CREDIT
Credit and Proaram Summarv
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:         SDR 72.2 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Terus:          IDA Credit: Standard IDA terms (40 years maturity)
Descriution:    The proposed credit would support the implementation of a
program of reforms designed to promote export-oriented private
sector-le4 development of the industrial sector. They include
import liberalization, strengthening of insti-utions involved
with export promotion and reforms aimed at transforming the
regulatory stance of the Government towards private sector
development to a promotional one. The macroeconomic framework
that would allow implementation of the reforms in trade and
industry is described in the annual Policy Framework Papers and
is being monitored under the IMN's ESAF program.
Disbursements:  All of the proposed Credit of US$100 million equivalent would
finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports, and would
be available for disbursement in two tranches.   The first
tranche of $50 million equivalent would be available upon
fulfillment of the credit effectiveness conditions (Schedule C),
expected to occur by early CY 1993; the second tranche of the
same amount upon fulfillment of the second tranche release
conditions (same Schedule), expected at the beginning of FY94
(i.e. about July/August 1993).
Benefits:       The reform program should (a) make significant progress towards
an incentive framework which increases Bangladesh industry's
competitiveness and potential for labor-intensive growth; (b)
increase producers' ability to respond quickly to changing
market conditions while reducing opportunities for unproductive
rent seeking; and (c) enhance the Government's capacity for
efficient performance in policy making and delivering services
to export and other private producers. Its comprehensiveness
is intended to facilitate a good supply response to the trade
policy reforms.
Risks           Although the progrsm accords fully with the policy of the
democratically elected Government which took office in 1991,
strong effort may be needed to resist attempts by inefficient
producer and employee interest groups to thwart the erosion of
high degrees of protection. The program seeks to minimize this
risk by emphasizing concomitant measures to promote export
production and facilitate private sector development to create
alternative investment and job opportunities, and by building
institutions which should help sustain the reforms.
Appraisal Reports Not applicable                              &g2:    IBRD 24206



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPEIT ASSOCIATION
REOT AND EUCMMNL.   ZF TIM PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO TUE EMCUTIVE DIlt..TORS 01 A PROPOSED
SECOND IDSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUS T CREDIT
TO TEHEOPL5'8S   PuLIC Or SAyGLADRSU
1.        I submit for your approval '.he following report and recomendation
c  a proposed development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 72.2 million (the equivalent of US$100 million), on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years, to finance a Second Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit.l/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Bangladesh: Selected Issues
in External Competitiveness and Economic Efficiency' (Report No. 10265-BD) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1992. The third-year
Policy Framework Papar was distributed tc Executive Directors for Information
on August 24, 1992, and discussed by the IMP's Board on September 14, 1992.
PART I. COUnTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Backaround
3.       With a per capita GNP of arouad US$220, Bangladesh is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Efforts to reduce its widespread poverty have
been hampered by several physical and structural constraints. With an
estimated population of 109 million in sn area about the size of Greece,
Bangladesh has a population density of 741 persons per square kilometer, 10
times that of Greece and three times that of India. This limits the ability
of the agriculture sector to contribute to raising incomes and absorb the
rapidly growing labor force. Although the land is fertile, frequent floods
and cyclones cause severe damage to infrastructure and make agricultural
output subject to high variability. Other than natural gas, Bangladesh has
virtually no mineral resources and limited physical infrastructure. Its weak
public administration, inefficient public enterprises and frail financial
system have limited the country's capacity to mobilize resources efficiently,
implement development projects, and deliver public services effectively.
4.        Despite these constraints, Bangladesh made generally good progress
during the early to did-1980s.y Sustained stabilization policies supported
by the International Monetary Fund (IMP) and IDA helped to reduce the external
and fiscal deficits from 10-12 percent of GDP in the early-1980s to about 7
percent of GDP by FY86 (i.e. July 1985 - June 1986), while inflation was
1/ The first adjustment credit for the sector was Industrial Sector Credit
(ISC-1, Cr. 1816-BD, approved on June 9, 1987 for US$190 million),
L A table of major economic indicators is attached as Schedule A.



-2-
brought down to around 10 percent. Real GDP increased by approximately 5
percent a year in FY81-86, due to increases In foodgrain production,
construction and services. Improved exchange rate management helped to
increase non-traditional exports by roughly 20 percent a year, although from a
very limited base. Policies vere introduced to stimulate domestic production
by providing incentive prices to farmers, simplifying private investment
sanctioning procedures, and denationalizing public enterprises. Developtent
of domestic commercial energy supplies, especially natural gas, increased
rapidly, enabling relatively high growth in the power and fertilizer sectors
and significant import substitution for petroleum products.
5.        Growth fell sharply beginning in FY87, however, due to a combination
of natural disasters (including major floods in PY88 and FY89), a deterior-
ation in the quality of macroeconomic management, and the cumulative impact of
falling investment levels over the past decade. To a large extent, the
decline in investment was due to inappropriate fiscal policies, as put'.ic
investment fell from 9.4 percent of GDP in FY81 to 6.1 percent in FY91, while
privat, investment fell from 6.5 percent of GDP in FY81 to 5.6 percent in
FY91. At the current level of gross investment, estimated at 11.7 percent of
GDP in FY92, it ie likely that Bangladesh i  approaching the margin of its
capital replacement requirements, let alone contributing to a net increase in
productive assets. In addition, the efficiency of public investment has been
hampered by poor priority setting and slow implementation of projects. A
program to raise the level and quality of public investment is being supported
by the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PRMAC)9 which was
approved in May 1992.
S. Macroecogmgc Framework
6.        Following approval of the ESAP program by the IMF in August 1990,
financial management has been basically sound, despite a variety of internal
and external shocks. The Gulf crisis resulted in the return of almost 70,000
workers, as well as higher oil prices and a loss of exports to Iraq and
Kuwait. The Government took prompt actions to manage the situation, including
an increase in domestic petroleum prices, restraints on current expenditures,
and a reduction of imports, as well as mobilizing additional assistance from
donors and the IMF. In December 1990, escalating political unrest forced the
resignation of the President, and democratic elections in February led to the
restoration of a parliamentary form of government, a process that vas
completed in October 1991. On April 29, 1991, a massive cyclone struck the
southeastern coast of Bangladesh, killing an officially estimated 139,000
people and severely damsaing the second largest city, Chittagong. Moderate-
to-heavy flooding occurred in northwestern Bangladesh in August-September
1991, which destroyed approximately 500,0QO tons of grain, although overall
foodgrain production for FY92 is estimated at record levels (about 19.5
million tons) due to continuing strong growth in production in the rest of the
country. Finally, military unrest broke out near Bangladesh's southern border
in January 1992, resulting in a large influx of refugees into a region of the
country still struggling to recover from the recent cyclone.



7.        In summary, the new Government ee subjected to an extraordinary
series of shocks during its first years in addition to having to maintain a
very tight macroeconomic program. Due to additional ceylone-related relief
expenditures in the final two months of the 1990-1991 fiscal year, as well as
some reduction in revenues attributable to the cyclone, the former and new
vovernments were not able to fully achieve their fiscal targets for that year,
which otherwise would bsve been on track. economic growth fell to 3.3 Tercent
for FY91 and to 3.2 percent in FY92, due In part to slw implenAntation of the
Annual Development Program because of uncertainties related to the long period
of political transition and a slow start-up of cyclone rehabilitation
activities. As a result of lower import growth (exports have remained
generally on target) and additional inflows of concessional assistance for
cyclone relief, foreign exchange reserves had increased to approximately $1.35
billion at the end of March 1991 and Improved further to $1.6 billion by the
end of June 1992 (equivalent to 5.4 monthb' coverage of the reduced level of
imports). This reserves position could, however, change with recently
instituted improvements in the pace of execution of the public investment
program and the resulting favorable impact oan private investment, as well as
the program of import liberalization.
8.        The performance of the agricultural sector has been very good during
the past several years, due in large part to policise which significantly
expanded the role of the private sector In the distribution of agricultural
inputs. In contrast, the industrial sector performed uoorly throughout the
1980. in terms of production, investment and job creation, and the Government
has respended by initiating the reforms to be supported under the proposed
Second Inlustrial Sector Adjustment Credit (I8AC-2), and by placing high
priority on reducing the drain on the economy due to poorly performing public
enterprises. Lccept for a brief period during 1989, the Gavernment has
maintained generally sound management of external trade flows, and the current
account balance has remained in the range of 6-7 percent of GDP, almost all of
which has been financed by concessional aid. The Government's external
borrowing policies have been realistic, with a debt-service ratio of 15
percent of export earnings in PY92. Monetary policies have been supportive of
a decline in the rate of inflation to 8.9 percent in FY91 and to 5 percent in
FY92 (due in large part to good performance in foodgrain production).
9.        Successes in macroeconomic managemet were, however, achieved at the
expense of public investment. Indeed, the moderate economic growth recorded
in the latter half of the eighties was due to a decline in investment and
savings over the past decades In this situation, recent Board papers on
adjustment lending (e.g., RAL-IIiy) recognize that fiscal policy should be
the primary instrument for addressing low levels of savings and investment.
IDA has accordingly made a major effort over the past several years to focus
attention on needed reforms in public resource management, which are essential
for achieving higher savings and investment and economic growth, as well as to
improve the delivery of poverty alleviation programs such as primary
my "Adjustment Lending Policies for Sustainable Growth", World Bank Country
Economics Department, September 1990.



education, priasry health and family planning. As Chairman of the Bangladesh
Aid Group, IDA has taken a strong stand on the need to raise public savings,
establish clear investment priorities and improve aid utilization, an approach
that has been backed fully by other bilateral and multilateral donor agencies.
During the past year, the Goveriment bas continued to pursue sound
macroeconomic policies under the second year 3SAF program. The Government has
also taken a number of Important steps to Introduce reforms in public resource
management recommended by IDA, Including the introduction of the value-added
tax in the FY92 Budget, reform of personal taxation In the PY93 Budget,
preparation of a three-year prioritized public investment program, and various
improvements in aid utilization procedures. These and a significant program
of follow-up actions are being supported by the PRMAC. The Government has
further affirmed its intention to continue Implementation of a broad range of
policy measures affecting agriculture, lndustry, the financial sector, social
sectors and poverty alleviation.
10.       Medium-term economic projections prepared in the context of the PIP
indicate that even with a vigorous structural adjustment program, the current
account deficit is expected to remain in the range of 4 to 5 percent of GDP
for the foreseeable future in order to make possible the flow of imports
associated with the higher level of investment needed to maintain rapid
economic growth. In order for this economic scenario to be sustainable, the
Government will need to undertake policies aimed at achieving higher export
growth and efficient import substitution in the context of private sector-led
development. Recent Board papers on trade policy reform and tax reform4/
call for coordinating such moves towards a more liberal trade regime with
sound macroeconomic management. This coordination would be effected by using
more vigorous exchange rate management to offset the reduced protection
brought about by removing quantitative import controls and lowering tariffs,
and by compensating for any fiscal losses arising from the trade liberaliz-
ation through a combination of expenditure restraint and greater use of tax
instruments that do m.ot discriminate between domestic production and imports.
The Goverment has been following a flexible exchange rate policy that is
generally appropriate for maintaining external financial stability. Moreover,
the recently approved third-year Policy Framework Paper (supported by a third-
year ESAP program) provides for exchange rate changes in support of higher
investment and growth as well as accelerated trade liberalization. The
necessary fiscal restraint is secured by the targets on current expenditure
required by the PIP (and monitored by both the ESAF and PRMAC programs), but
especially by implementation of the PBMAC-supported value added tax that
applies equally to domestic production and imports. This substantially
moderates the risk that trade liberalization will be held hostage to revenue
Imperatives.
W "Lessons of Tax Reform', March 3, 1991 (R91-0058), and "Strengthening
Trade Policy Reform", Novemb.r 14, 1989 (Sec89-1454).



X - S
C. Stimulatna t4e Productive Sectors
11.       Exoandtig the Role of the Xrivate Sector. Althoagh public
investment in social and physical infrastructure is important in crating an
enabling environment, higher economic growth rates require an increase in
investment led by a more vibrant private sector. The Government has taken a
number of measures to improve the economic, financial and regulatory climate
for the private sector. Perhaps the most notable success has resulted from
the removal of restrictione on the participation of the private sector in the
distribution of agricultut.l inputs, v-hich has i,,creased the availability of
minor irrigation equipment and fertilizer and lowered costs to the farmer
through more efficient distribution systems and a greater range of
technological choices. The gradual removal of import restrictions over the
past several years and liberalized access to foreign exchange has also
provided the private sector greater scope to compete effectively in tha
industrial sector. At the same time, the Government recognizes that further
actions ste required to improve the incentive structure for private investment
and rationalize the regulatory framework for industry. A program of
privat:ization has been announced, and this needs to be carried through in
close conjunction with continuing efforts at public enterprise reform.
12.       Agricultural Policies. The Government's objective is to raise the
agricultural grmwth rate to 3.5-4.0 percent a year over the medium term. To
achieve this, the Government intends to rely on greater private investment in
minor irrigatidn and increased use of improved seeds and fertilizers. The
Government removed all restrictions on the lmpcrt, distribution and siting of
low horsepower irrigation equipment and power tillers in FY88 and FY89, and
private distributors were allowed direct access to bulk purchases of chemical
fertilizers stsrting in FY89. These measures contributed greatly to the
record FY90 and PY92 harvests. The Government intends to support these
reforms through increased investment in minor irrigation equipment by the
private sector, expanded drainage and flood control, intensified command area
development, and improved research and extension services. Better
transportation infrastructure is also important to improve farmers' access to
major markets.
13.       Food Policy. As Bangladesh approaches self-sufficiency in rice
production, the Government needs to reexamine its food policies. IDA recently
prepared a Food Policy Report that recommended a variety of measures to
improve the efficiency of foodgrain operations through further liberalization
of input markets, expanded involvement of the private sector in foodgrain
marketing, and allowing market forces to have a greater influence on
output/input prices. In the long run, policies that bring domestic rice
prices into line with the long-run trend in vorld prices should produce a more
efficient rice sector, resulting in lower prices to the consumers.
14.       The Role of _nergv and Infrsstructure.  Well-planned investments in
energy and infrastructure generally achieve high economic rates of return in
Bangladesh despite implementation delays, and there have been significant
achievements in several sectors (for example, Bangladesh's dependence on
imported petroleum declined from 68 percent of export earnings in FY81 to 19
percent in PY90 due to the development of domestic natural gas supplies). The



-6-
major factor constraining greater investment in energy and infrastructure La
the weak financial and operati4g performance of most sector agencies, although
there are some important exceptions (for example, the Rural Electrification
Board is generally considered to be an efficient and well-managed
organization).  A major constraint on better efficiency in the power sector is
the performance of the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB). The BPDB
did temporarily improve its performance with the support of the FY89 Energy
Sector Adjustment Credit, but subsequently experienced a very serious
deterioration in its financial performance. As a result, all major donors,
including IDA, suspended new lending for power development in FY91, and IDA
has suspended disbursements for an ongoing power operation until the
Government makes substantial progress in restructuring BPDB and reducing
system losses and accounts receivable. The Government has recently takAn
steps to resolve this situation, including establishment of Dhaka Electticity
Supply Authority as an independent entity on October 1, 1991, and it is hoped
that sustained progress in reducing system losses and accounts receivable will
allow IDA to resume disbursements and preparation of new investments in the
near future. The natural gas sector has also experienced serious problems
recently, including contract delays and lack of progress in resolving pricing
issues.
15.      While IDA is not active in the railway sector, Bangladesh Railways
is considered to be a major problem due to high losses and puor operating
performance. In the road sector, IDA was not active for an extended period
during the 1980. due to lack of agreement with the Government on the priority
of road maintenance. This problem has now been resolved and IDA has resumed
lending for roads. A major Transport Sector Review was prepared by IDA in
FY91 to provide a strategic framework for future investments in the transport
sector. The report also helped provide a framework within which IDA may
support the proposed Jamuna multipurpose bridge. IDA has been active in
supporting investment in other infrastructure sectors as well, such as ports,
inland water transport, urban water supply and urban development; in almost
all cases, however, the binding constraint on further investment is the
limited absorptive capacity of the sector institutions.
D. Industry. Trade and Finance
16.       The manufacturing sector in Bangladesh accounts for about 13 percent
of GDP and 14 percent of total employment. However, these numbers belie both
its potential economic significance and the important role it already plays in
external trade; about a third of the sector's value added is in export
production and it generates over three-fourths of merchandise exports.
Unfortunately, the sector has been characterized by low investment levels and
considerable underutilized capacity, particularly in the large and medium-
scale, capital-intensive industries, and grew on average at only about 4
percent per annum during the last decade. Large public and private units
generate 58 percent of the sector's value added but account for only 18
percent of the manufacturing labor force, while small and cottage units are
far more important for employment.   The causes of the sector's slow growth
may be sought not only in the absence of reliable infrastructure -- e.g.,
power and transport -- but also in regulatory impediments to investment in new



* 7-.
manufacturing activities, as well as an incentive structure that favors
inefficient production for a domestic market limited by widespread poverty
rather than for exports and efficient import substitution.
17.       The Policy Regime.  Factors that contribute to the anti-export and
anti-private sector bias of the policy regime and that constitute the focus of
the proposed ISAC-2 include, inter all&, the following elements:
(i) Nature of Trade Restrictions. Non-tariff measures have remained
ir.portant determinants of protectiont through FY92 Import bans or
restrictions have applied to a considerable range of products; import
passbooks have been used not only to manuae the restrictions but also to
control all industrial importst and a dual exchange rate regime has
limited access even to the secondary market. At the same time a wide
range of import duties have restrained trade, with levels ranging from
zero to 350 percent, a complex structure, and individual rates being
varied frequently. A large number of concessions and exemptions have
been granted, often on an ad hoe basis, resulting in a fa'rly low
average collection rate of 23 percent while yielding very high rates of
effective protection to some activities and none to others. Although
some improvement in the structure occurred with the removal of the
development surcharge and regulatory duty on imports at the beginn:'g of
FY92 the trade restrictions have discriminated strongly against export
production and arbitrarily among import-substitution activities. More-
over, the difficulties encountered in administering a very complex set
of controls have created incentives for smuggling and other irregular
activities.
(II) Export Incentives. The Government places considerable importance
on export incentives, and has legal provision for several schemes aimed
at relieving export producers of the cost of duty sad tax on imported
inputs. Unfortunately many of these schemes have suffered from poor
design and/or administration. One exception has been the special bonded
warehousing facility, in which most imported inputs can be financed by
back-to-back letters of credit, and which has been a major factor in the
spectacular growth of garment exports. But its rules have required
liberalization to serve other types of export. Export promotion has
been further hampered by the absence of a proactive institutional frame-
work and lack of experience in export marketing and product development.
(111) Investmet Controls. There has been strong Government control of
investment in Bangladesh. Despite some relaxation in 1986, Board of
Investment (301) approval has been required for projects of over Taka
300 million which utilize funding from public financial institutions,
for access to the privileged import regime reserved for industrial
importers, and for various types of exchange control-related and alien
employment transactions. Some activities remain reserved for public in-
vestment, but many others have been opened to the private sector under
the present Governrent's Zndutrlal Pollcy 1991.
18.       Public fnternrise Reform. Initially almost entirely state-owned,
the manufacturing sector is now 'mlxed". Significant divestiture to the



private sector has occurred already, notably In textiles. In many cases the
Government has retained equity, but it is committed to extending the process.
Public ownership has now fallen to about 40 percent, mainly in large units
producing basic steel, cement, fertilizer, sugar, jute, textiles and pharma-
ceuticals. GOB is committed also to granting more managerial autonomy to
those firms that will remain State-owned, by reducing official intervention in
employment, procurement, borrowing and pricing policies. At the same time,
the system of monitoring and evaluating enterprise performance will be
strengthened, with a view to reducing their waste of scarce public funds.
Because public enterprises play a significant role in the country's industrial
development, their generally poor performance and excess capacity have stifled
industrial growth and drained budgetary resources. The most critical problems
involve firms in the jute sector. With appropriate policies, jute could
continue to play an important role in industrial exports, despite weak
externsl demand. A Jute Development Project is under discussion with IDA that
would involve the phasing out of excess production capacity and labor in the
existing mills, modernization and rehabilitation investments in viable public
and private sector mills, financial, organizational and managerial
restructuring, and eventual privatization of public sector mills.
19.       Financial Sector Reform.  Rapid growth of the financial system in
the mid-1980s without due regard to enforeement of loan recoveries undermined
the viability of the financial sector. In addition, an administered interest
rate structure virtually eliminated price competition, and made priority
sector lending and mobilization of term deposits commercially unattractive.
The nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) which dominate the sector had become
inefficient, and the legal framework for debt recovery was inadequate.
Recognizing these deficiencies, the Government is undertaking a program of
financial sector reforms with IDA support. It has introduced a more market-
oriented approach to interest rate determination, discontinued subsidized
refinancing facilities through the Bangladesh Bank, imposed new regulations
with respect to accounting policies for provisioning of bad debt and
suspension of interest, instituted financial loan courts to improve debt
recovery, and initiated the sale of one development finance Institution (DPI).
Unless continuing 8'fficultiez in the finaneial performance of the NCBs are
resolved, however, baey could affect the susta.nability of the reform program.
Z. Addressina Social Development Concerns
20.       Population. Rapid population growth constitutes one of the most
serious obstacles to poverty alleviation efforts. Since independence in 1971,
Bangladesh's population has increased by 35-40 million people. This increase
has created a large expansion in the number of rural landless households and
has increased the number of urban poor through rapid rural-urban migration.
Population growth has over-stretched the social services and worsened the
impact of natural disasters through encroachment on marginal lands. A
reduction in fuelwood availability is causing rural households to use
agricultural residues and animal dung as energy sources, contributing to soil
depletion and reduced fodder availability for draft ammals.



-9-
21.       The Government has had an active family planning program since 1975
which has been successful in increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from
8 percent in 1975 to 31 percent in 1989 and reducing the total fertility rate
from above 7 in the mid-1970s to below 5 in 1989. An IDA-led consortium of
donors is providing support for the sector through the Fourth Population and
Health Project approved in FY91. Efforts are being made to strengthen the
linkages of family planming to maternal and child health care activities, as
well as to the health sector in general. It is increasingly recognized that
programs aimed solely at the supply of family planning services will not be
sufficient to achieve the desired reduction in fertility. Greater efforts are
needed to promote the general status of women in society, as well as to extend
family planning services to the population in greatest need, for example, by
including population education in the primary and secondary school curriculum.
22.       Human Resource Develoument.  Human resource development as measured
in terms of literacy, health and nutrition, is extremely low in Bangladesh.
The adult literacy rate (about 29 percent) is one of the lowest in the world,
and primary and secondary school enrollment rates 'about 58 percent and
27 percent respectively) are significantly lower than in comparable countries.
With the support of other donors, IDA is providing assistance for the
expansion of primary education and improvements in educational quality through
the Ceneral Education project approved in FY90. Programs are al8o under
preparation to expand educational access to disadvantaged groups, for example,
through non-formal literacy programs administered by NGOs.
23.       Women in Development. The majority of women in Bangladesh are
caught between two different worlds -- one determined by culture and tradition
that confines their activities inside family homesteads, and the other shaped
by increasing landlessness and poverty that forces them into wage employment
for economic survival. 1ll-prefared for the outside world, women have limited
economic opportunities. Bangladesh would benefit significantly in terms of
increased productivity, enhanced family welfare, and a reduced population
growth rate by focussing on the development potential of its women. IDA has
contributed to drswing attention to issues affecting women through its
Strategy Paper on Women in Development completed in FY90, which is being
followed-up by integrating WID issues into the General Education Project and
the Fourth Population and Health Project, as well as preparation of the
proposed Female Secondary School Assistance Project.
24.       Environmental Issues.  The floods of 1987 and 1988 and the cyclone
of 1991 have heightened interest in improved environmental management. IDA
recently completed an Environment Strategy Review, which paid particular
attention to forestry issues (because of the depletion of Bangladesh's forests
and sources of biomass), industrial and agricultural pollution control
(because of the threat to water supplies and fish), and biodiversity (because
Bangladesh is home to a number of endangered species'. A National Environment
Management Action Plan is in the final stages of preparation. Flood manage-
ment and cyclone protection are particularly important environmental concerns,
and IDA has taken a lead role in coordinating international action on flood
management. IDA's Action Plan for Flood Control was endorsed at a conference
of donors in London in December 1989, and is now beung implemented by the
Government with the support of 15 donors, including IDA. The latter has



* 10 
played a major role following natural disasters in coordinating the donor
response, and intends to support programs to rehabilitate coastal embankments
and expand the cyclone shelter system.
25.       Efforts to Reduce Poverty.  The elimination of pervasive poverty
remains one of the principal objectives of public policy, and the mixed
outcome of the Government's efforts in reducing poverty remains a major
concern. The most recent data indicate that close to 50 percent of the
population does not earn enough income to afford a basic diet considered to be
the minimum necessary by international standards. The Government recognizes
that improved macroeconomic policy and economic growth are not sufficient to
improve the prospects of the poor. It has therefore undertaken to expand
employment opportunities through programs such as Food for Work (11W) and to
target income transfer program to the lowest income groups through the
Vulnerable Group Development (VGD) programs these two programs reached
approximately five million poor beneficieries in recent years. The Government
has established the independent Palli Karma Shahayak Foundation for poverty
alleviation to supplement such efforts. The objective of the foundation is to
support income generating programs by NGOs and public sector agencies involved
in generating employment for the very poor through the provision of credit.
F. TheEoconomic Imnact of the_ Refoms
26.       It is estimated that a decisive package of reforms in the industrial
and financial sector could help the industrial sector grow annually at between
7 to 8 percent compared to the 4 percent achieved in the last decade. Such a
reform package would include inter alIs, (1) import liberalization, export
promotion and private sector-led development of the kind that would be
supported by the proposed ISAC-29 (2) financial sector reform supported by
IDA''s FSAC and (3) a program of privatization-cum-restructuring of public
sector mills and other enterprises, together with  productivity-related wage
awards of the type currently being discussed under a possible Jute Development
Project. Implementation of these policies, complemented by IDA-supported
measures to develop human resources to which reference was made in Section E,
would therefore allow the industrial sector to play an important role in
promoting economic growth, creating socially productive employment and
contributing to poverty alleviation on a sustainable basis in Bangladesh.
G. the Bank Group's Assistance to Banaladsh
27.       Lendina Level and Comoosition. As of July 31, 1992, cumulative Bank
Group commitments to Bangladesh totalled US$5627.3 million equivalent, net of
cancellations. The distribution of lending is given in Table 1 below. In
1Y90, $540 million was committed for five operations, in FY91 $459.7 million
was committed for six operations, and il- FY92 four credits totalling $253
million were presented to the Board. IDA gross disbursements to Bangladesh
totalled $236 million during FY92, while debt-service payments of $56 million
were received ($20 million for amortization and $36 in interest payments),
resulting in a net transfer to Bangladesh of $180 million.



- 11 -
28.       For the PY93-96 period, the IDA lending program is planned at a
level of around US$450-500 million a year. If the pace of the policy reform
process is maintained approximately 15-20 percent would be adjustment lending.
Of the remainder, about 30 percent would go for power and energy, 25 percent
for agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 20 percent for transport-
ation, 12 percent for education and technical assistance, 5 percent for urban
infrastructure, and 6 percent for population and health. (The relatively low
percentage for population and health reflects the approval of the Fourth
Population and Health Pioject in FY91--total project cost of $600 million, of
which IDA will contribute $180 million and bilateral donors $356 million--
which is expected to provide the bulk of resources for this sector over the
next four years.)
29.       IDA's lending program is closely linked to the development strategy
outlined in the preceding sections. With respect to adjustment credits, the
proposed ISAC-2 and the recently approved PRMAC may be supplemented by credits
to support restructuring the jute manufacturing industry, and possibly to
support improvements of the foodgrain management system. The lending program
for aariculture and water resources includes several planned operations in
support of the Flood Action Plan, including two projects to improve cyclone
protection (through roads, coastal embankments, early warning systems, etc.)
Tablel: Dnstdbudon of Lending to Bangladesh, 1972-1992
Cumulative Lending  Proortlon
Sector                    Amount (US$ milion)   M%)
Agrioulture, Itrigation and Rural Development  1215.3               20
Power and Energy                              1033.0                17
Industry                                      832.8                 14
Educaon                                       400.8                  7
Transportation and TolecommnIdoalions          419.5                 7
Emrgenoy Rehabilitation                       188.6                  3
Urban Infrlaucture                            141.7                  2
Popultion ad Health                           30s.0                  5
Technical Assistance                           87.5                  2
Adjustment and other Non-Projeot Credits      1407.4                23
Total                                          o3j.10
Of which $404.3 MiMon was cancelled.



12
and construct cyclone shelters in high risk areas. On Bay 21, 1992 an
operation was submitted to the Board in support of sustainable forestry
management, and a credit is planned in support of agricultural research.
Concerning investment in power sad ener=v development, the recent reduction in
lending as a result of donor dissatisfaction with the financial and operating
performance of the sector agencies has led to growing imbalances in the
investment program that may result in increasingly severe problems of service
delivery during the next few years. If the performance of the sector agencies
improves substantially, we would support an increase in investment over the
next few years to balance the development of the energy sector. In the
transportation sector, the choice of new projects will be guided by IDA's
recent Transport Sector Review. The largest project would be the Jamuna
multipurpose bridge, which would provide the first direct transportation link
between the eastern and western sections of Bangladesh, as well as providing
supporting infrastructure for power transmission and a possible gas pipeline
in the future. Other potential projects include support for the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, improvements in rural access roads,
port development, and road ferry improvements. In education, a follow-on
operation to the General Education Project is anticipated for FY95, as well as
innovative operations for expanding female school enrollment at the secondary
level and encouraging non-formal education programs for hard-to-reach
children. Operations in urban infrastructure are expected to concentrate on
water supply and sanitation in major urban areas (Dhaka and Chittagong),
provided that agreement is reached on actions to improve the financial and
operating performance of the sector agencies. In the area of population and
health, the major share of funding for the sector will be provided through the
ongoing Fourth Population and Health project, and possible new operations
during the next few years will concentrate on programs to stimulate demand for
family planning services and expand nutrition programs targeted at high risk
mothers and children. Lending to the industrial sector is limited to lines of
credit for export finance and term loans from private banks, through the
Export Development Credit Project (Cr. 2000-BD approved on April 11, 1989) and
the Private Sector Investment Credit Project (Cr. 2340-BD approved on March
17, 1992). However, a major share of ESW resources is allocated to examining
issues involving incentives for industrial development, promotion of private
sector activities, and restructuring of public enterprises, and additional
operations may materialize as a result of this effort. A sixth Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 2393-BD) was approved on June 18, 1992.
30.       Proiect Implementation.  The efficient utilization of IDA resources
is seriously constrained by the limited absorption capacity of most sector
agencies. Between FY82 to FY89, the disbursement ratio for project aid as a
percentage of outstanding commitments remained in the range of 12-15 percent.
It improved in FY90 to exceed 20 percent due to more intensive supervision and
restructuring of problem projects, but has since fallen to 18.5 percent in
FY91 and only 15 percent last year; moreover, the quality of the IDA portfolio
remains disappointing (32 percent of IDA projects are currently rated as
experiencing major implementation problems), and further actions will be
needed to improvedisbursement performance. Many of the generic problems
affecting the portfolio are being addressed as part of the PRMAC. Additional
actions are being taken at the sector level to address implementation problems
affecting specific agencies, such as the Bangladesh Water Resources Board and



13-X
the Bangladesh Power Development Board. IDA has made a major effort to
improve aid coordination activities, so that uncoordinated investments by
donors do not overload the implementation capacity of sector agencies. At the
1992 Aid Group aeetitg many donors stated that demonstrated progress in
accelerating aid utilization would be a major consideration in detormining
future levels of aid to Bangladesh, and It was agreed that IDA would consult
vith the Govermnnt late in the calendar year on the progress being made in
aid utilization.
31        Role of IBP INC and  IIG&   IDA and the IMW haue worked closely in
Bangladesh, especially in connection with the preparation of Policy Framework
Papers in support of SAP operations during PY87-49 and an ESAP operation for
PY91-93. IDA has coordinated with the IMP in preparing adjustment operations
in the financial and industrial sectors.
32.       The IPC has increased promotional activity considerably in the last
year and Is currently pursuing investment opportunities In general
manufacturing, services and capital markets. During FY91, IFC invested in a
textile spinnig mill. In order to maintain market presence, the Corporation
has been willing to accept investments smaller than it typically considers.
In the capital markets area, it is focusing its efforts on non-banking
financial institutions such as housing finance, bill discounting and asset
finance companies. IFC is also willing to play an active role in the
Government's privatization initiative and has expressed this interest to the
Government on several occasions. During FY91, MIGA provided an investment
Vuarantee for an export-oriented fertilizer factory in Bangladesh. Following
up on work started in 1987 by IFC, VWAS has been providing technical
assistance to improve the structure and functtoning of the Government's Board
of Investment (BOI). In FY91, a two-year program to strengthen the BO was
agreed upon. Work on this program has recently started and has resulted in
the formulation of proposals for reorganization and restructuring of BOI.
PAS has also worked with the Ministry of Industry and IDA on deregulation and
incentives studies in connection with the proposed ISAC-2.
B. External Jinancln RbuAirementa
33.      Bsagladesh can achieve a growth rate in excess of 5 percent over the
medium term if it follows the policy framework described above. To support
such growth and finance the necessary Investment, Bangladesh will have to rely
on external assistance. Total external aid commitments to Bangladesh are
currently about US$2 billion a year, of which IDA'a share is In the range of
20-25 percent. Even with improvements in public savings, Bangladesh will face
a savingslinvestment gap of around 6.5 percent of GDP and a budget deficit of
about the asae amount, which is reflected In the balance of payments. Given
that exports are only two-fifths of imports and jute prices and volumes are
not expected to increase, the current account deficit is expected to remain at
in the range of 4 to 5 percent of CDP despite the rapid growth of non-
traditional exports. Allowing for maintenance of foreign exchange reserves
and amortization payments, aid flows (excluding short-term financing and the
IMP) will ueed to be maintained at present levels over the medium term. The
bulk of the required aid flows should come from disbursements from



* 14 -
Bangladesh's aid pipeline, which stood close to $5.6 billion at the beginning
of FY92. The balance of the resource requirements would need to come from new
commitments averaging *1.9-2.1 billion a year. Of this amount, about one-
third would need to come from food and commodity aid commitments, reflecting
Bangladesh's reliance on such aid for flocal and balance-of-payments support.
34.       Bangladesh'" outstanding medium and long-term external debt is
expected to increase from US$11.4 bllnion at the end of FY91 to $13.0 billion
by end-PY93. Because the bulk of the debt is contracted at highly
concessionary terms, the debt-service ratio to GDP is low at 1.8 percent,
while the debt-service ratio to exporto, excluding IM repurchases, is
manageable at 15.2 percent. These ratios are projected to decline to 1.5
percent and 12 percent respectively by FY95, provided that GDP and export
growth are maintained.
I.  Summar' A8sessment and Performance Indicators
35.       The Government and IDA are largely In agreement on the key policy
issues facing the Bangladesh economy, and differences of viewpoint typically
involve the timing and sequencing of specific policy actions. The highest
priority policy indicators for the medium term are summarized in the PFP
policy matrix, which was endorsed on a no objections basis by the Committee of
the Whole to whom it was distributed on August 24, 1992. Macroeconomic
performance is monitored closely by the IMF and IDA in the context of the
PIPIESAB program. Various aspects of the macroeconomic program are also
monitored by IDA through specific adjustment operations (such as fiscal policy
in the context of the PRMAC, trade liberalization in the context of the
proposed ISAC-2 and the finsncial reforms In the context of the ongoing PSAC).
36.       IDA's country economic memorandum provides a mechanism for reviewing
progress on a broad range of policy reforms with the donor community at the
annual Paris Aid Group meeting. Policy matters affecting particular sectors
are generally monitored in the context of specific investment operations. IDA
has played a major role in coordinating the efforts of donors in various
sectors, including two IDA-led consortia that are providing support for the
expansion of primary health and family planing, and primary education. The
Resident Mission forms the focal point for coordination of donor programs at
the local level, and IDA maintains extensive contact and collaboration with
the Asian Development Bank. Thus, donor coordination on policy issues is
broad-based and generally effective in the context of Bangladesh.
37.       The Government has been successful In maintaining financial
stability over the past several years. *Nowevr, econom : growth has been
disappointing, and serious structural problems need to be resolved in order to
achieve higher growth in the future. The most inportant indicators that IDA
will use in assessing GOB's performance In addressing these issues are:
* Continued 8ound macroeconomic management, including agreed fiscal
and monetary targets In the context of the PIPIBSAF program, and
flexible exchange rate management.



* Is -
v Substantial improvements in public resource management (including
actions to be supported by the attached credit) focusing on tax
reform, prioritization of the public investment program, restraint
of current expenditures.
* A significant increase in disbursements facilitated, inter alla, by
radical streamlining of aid utilization procedures.
* Improved incentives for efficient industrial investment through
trade liberalization, restructuring of public enterprises
(including privatization) especially in jute, continued progress
in financial sector reforms, and improvements in the regulatory
environment for industry.
* Vigorous action to reduce losses and improve performance in key
public enterprises, especially the Power Development Board,
Railways, Petrobangla, and Dhska and Chittagong Water and
Sanitation Authorities.
* Continued liberalization of agricultural inputs, an expanded role
for the private sector in foodgrain management, and restructuring
of Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation.
* Implementation of the Flood Action Plan, including cyclone protec-
tion and shelter programs, and improvement of project
implementation and maintenance by the Bangladesh Water Development
Board.
- Strong support for human resource development in the context of
the General Education project and the Fourth Population and Health
project.
* Continued support for women in development, including expansion of
educational programs for girls at the secondary level.
PART II. THE PROPOSED SECgOD INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSMT CREDIT
A. Background to the Credit
38.       The proposed medium-term trade and industry program comprises the
further reform of import and export policy and the legal and regulatory
framw ork. The previous Government of Bangladesh initiated a process of
liberalization, with IDA support, in the aid-1980s. That process has already
yielded a less restrictive trading environment in Bangladesh than in some
other countries at a similar stage of development. The first Industrial
Sector Credit (ISC-1) supported reforms principally in the import control and
tariff regime, export policy administration, and itvestment controls. The
import reforms included important steps to reduce the number of items on the
banned and restricted lists of imports, to reduce tariffs on luxury goods
above 150 percent to that maximum, and to restructure and further compress



-16 -
tariffs in two subsectore that account for a significant proportion of
manufacturing value addedt textiles, and steel and engineering. Reforms of
the export policy administration included a program to convert the duty
exemption sad drawback cell to a permanent office, incentives for indirect
exporters and export financing, and satisfactory performance of the Export
Monitoring Unit. The liberalization agenda was clearly advanced by the
implementation of these measures. Rowever, there were some delays and/or
exceptions, as well as a hiatus in tie reform process caused in its later
stages by uncertainties before and during the political transition.
39.       The new Government is keen to take the process forward by
consolidating and extenditg the earlier reforms with a stronger emphasis on
private sector development. It has made further progress in several areas
both in preparation for ISAC-2 and, more generally, as part of its medium-term
program to encourage competitive and efficient pri'vate sector-led industrial
growth in Bangladesh. In its Industrial Pollcy 1991 issued shortly after it
assumed office and in statements to the Aid Group Meetings and other fora, GOB
has reaffirmed the intention stated in its election manifesto to foster an
open and competitive economic environment. This recognizes the importance of
creating an environment conducive to private sector development (PSD). The
proposed ISAC-2 supports a two year slice of the program required to implement
that approach, as it relates to international trade sad the industry sector of
the economy. The Government's program ixa this area complements other wide-
ranging initiatives to maintain appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, to
strengthen and liberalize the financial sector and to reduce direct Government
involvement in production and commerce.
40.       Obiectives of the Credit.  The proposed Credit vould support the
replacement of the current ad hoc regulatory and fiscal policy measures by a
more liberal and neutral trading environment in which industry, led by the
private sector including foreign investment, could become a principal engine
of development in Bangladesh. This process would be facilitated by the
removal of unnecessary regulation and the Government's adoption of a
promotional stance towards private industry and trade. To those ends, the
"ISAC-2 programt comprises actions in three areas -- import liberalization,
export promotion, and private sector development. The actions are organized
into a two-year action plan, with some actions already initiated in the first
half of FY93 and others intended to occur early in the following fiscal year.
The key aspects are:
(i) ImDort Liberalization
* Except, restrictions for public healt'* or other non-trade rea-
sons,  the remaining import controls are being removed and
procedures simplified, transferring protection fully to tariffs
and the rate of exchange in the interests of transparency and
I/ I.e., those required for reasons of public health, safety, security and
religion, although GOB may wish to retain a few "sensitive" products under
restriction for other reasons, related mainly to informal trade with India.



- I? -
neutrality. Hoot of this is occurring now, leaving only a few
items and procedures for decontrol in PY94.
* The reform of the tariff structure to be supported by ISAC-2 would
leave nominal tariff protection tn the 7.5 - 45/50 percent range
for most activities by FY94. This comprises an initial phase of a
continuing process of tariff reduction, compresoiou and other
rationalization that could culminate in an effective protection
range of 0-30 percent by 1997 -- a process to be assisted by a new
National Tariff Commission (NTC).
* The tariff reductions would be coordinated with consumption
taxation, made possible by the expansion of the value added tax
(VAT) and supplementary excise duties (SED) introduced in 1991,
and with the reform of duty assessment procedures to make them
more equitable and improve revenue collection, ensuring that the
liberalization program would safeguard revenue.
(ii) Export Promot4on
* The program for providing direct and indirect exporters with
access to inputs at world prices is being accelerated. The Credit
vould also support a more strategic approach to other aspects of
export promotion, assisted by a strengthened Export Promotion
Bureau (EPB) and other institutional support.
(iii) Private Sector Develonment
* Substantial deregulation and procedural reform in other areas
would include the removal of public control over private invest-
ments (already begun under Industrial Policy 1991), the reform of
business laws and legal procedures, and relaxation of some
exchange controls.
* The Government is replacing its traditional regulatory bias with a
stronger promotional stance towards efficient private sector
development. This is being supported by a reorganized Board of
Investment (BOI), rationalization of fiscal incentives, and other
measures to promote foreign and domestic private investment.
41.       Macroeconomic Framework.  During the period of the Credit, GOB
would be expected to maintain and lmplemont the macroeconomic framework agreed
as part of the PPP process and monitored through the 3SAP and PRIAC programs.
Actions of particular importance are flexible exchange rate management to
maintain external competitivemess, and effoctive implementation of the trade-
neutral VAT and supplementary excise duty (8ED) to replace tariffs by
consumption taxes for revenue purposes   The roles of the exchange rate in
protecting production and of the trade-neutral taxes in maintaining revenue
during tariff rationalization would be monitored closely in the supervision of
ISAC-2. Conditionality in these regards is indicated below and in Schedule C
42.       Coordination with the In?   There have been regular consultations
with Fund staff during the preparation of ISAC-2. There is full agreement on



- l8 -
*:he need for flexible exchange rate management to maintain external competit-
iveness, as well as on the desirability of effective implementation of the
value added tax and trade-neutral supplementary excise duties introduced in
1991 (for example, the introduction of the VAT was a structural benchmark for
the ESAP program as vell as a prior action for the PRMAC). Moreover, the
macroeconomic framework which GOB would be expected to maintain and implement
during the period of the Credit has been prepared jointly with the IMF in the
context of the annual PEP.
43.       Justification for Balance of Payments Sugport.  The program of
import liberalization (substantial elimination of quantitative controls on
imports and tariff rationalization) will stimulate import demand in the short
term. Also, measures to remove regulatory impediments should boost private
investment and generate demand for imported capital goods and intermediate
inputs. The export expansion triggered by flexible exchange rate management
and the institutional improvements under the Credit's export promotion
strategy, though potentially very significant, will occur over the medium
term, however. This provides a rationale for balance-of-payment support for
the trade liberalization program that is fully consistent with recent Board
papers on adjustment lending.
B. Descriution of the Major Policy Actions
44.       Specific, monitorable actions for each component are outlined below
(and summarized in matrix form in Schedule C).
OComponent Is   Imort Liberalization
45.       Quantitative Restrictions.  Over the past few years, the Government
has been removing import controls apart from those required for non-trade
reasons in several phases. By the 1989/91 Import Policy Order (IPO), two
types of import controls were prescribed: a Control List (CL) of items within
about 330 headings at the Harmonized System (US) four-digit level; and various
restrictions specified by user, financing method, volume or otherwise than by
ES-coded product. The 1991/93 IPO left 193 headings on the CL and about 130
groups of other restrictions in the IPO text. The proposed Credit would
support (a) the removal In FY93 of all but 93 CL headings and of many of the
non-CL restrictions and the codification of remaining non-CL restrictions, and
(b) the removal of about 34 more of the present CL headings one year later.
Unless a planned NTC study shows import control to be the optimal policy
instrument for meeting GOB objectives for a short list of so-called "sensitive
items" included among these 34, the FY94 reduction should leave only non-trade
restrictions including reasonable pro-inspection requirements for quarantine
and similar purposes. The retention of the last 34 protective controls
through FY93 is considered acceptable in order to provide time for the ETC to
examine the level and nature of protection they bestow on domestic prod':.tction,
and to propose other ways to ensure reasonable protection and deter smuggling.
46.       The process of importing is expected to be facilitated by the
removal of the system of import passbooks and entitlements which has arisen to



v 19 
administer the above controls. The Government has decided that use of
passbooks vill cease with respect to uncontrolled Imports, so that they lose
their "actual user" function for all but a few imports in FY93 and could be
retained only to administer non-trade restrictions the following year. This
would put industrial (direct) importers on the same footing with the
commercial importers who service small-scale producers and coasumers.
Associated measures include removal of the imvolvement of "sponsoring"
Ministries in the Import process, liberalization of the procedure for opening
LICs and abolition of the related authorisation fee (para. 50). Simplified
tariff documentation and assessment procedures (paras 54-55) will reduce the
difficulties now often experienced in establishing import values and duties
during Customs clearance.
47.       Tariff Rate ReysJon. As indicated (para. 38), a start was made
under ISC-.1 in mitigating the previous policy of treating import tariffs as
the leading revenue source and, along vith controls, means of protecting
almost anything produced in Bangladesh. Recent progress on rationalizing the
protective taxes on imports occurred in FY91 when many of the customs duty
(CD) rates above 100 percent were reduced to that level. The exceptions were
mainly luxury goods not produced in the country, and some of these were
identified for reduction to 75 percent within PY92. The FY92 Budget included
the abolition of the regulatory duty on imports, and the replacement of the
development surcharge on imports by increased customs duty rates, other than
those already 100 percent or more. The tariff reform process supported by the
Credit (in PY93 and FY94) and in subsequent years v*ald build on these
developments, emphasizing simplification aud compression of customs duties
with the objective of containing effective protection within a moderate range
in the medium term (by PY96).
48.       During the proposed Credit period, the tariff reform would consist
largely of establishing 50 percent as the ceiling on nominal protection by
FY94 with few and temporary exceptions, and reducing rate dispersal. The
latter would involve removing both the user-defined concessions that yield
extraordinary effective protection levels and other fins distinctions in the
tariff rate schedule (which have little or sometimes perverse effects on
protection). A much improved structure would exist when the second tranche of
the Credit would be disbursed early in FY94, following several significant
steps in the right direction that are approved for Implementation before its
effectiveness this year. The two-year program should not be seen as a
complete reform, therefore, but rathor as the precursor to further
rationalization of the structure of protection over the subsequent three
years  'While a medium term horizon is considereA necessary to make an export
oriented tariff policy sustainable, 60B proposes to assist investors' decision
making in the meantime by asking public, before the Credit is effective, its
commitment to bring Bangladesh into the rank of internationally competitive
developing countries, through the achievement by 1997 of a structure of
customs duty rates that would yield the low levels of effective protection
prevailing in such countries. This target is expected to be among the policy
guidelines given to the new WIC, which is to be operational before Credit
effectiveness. During negotiation of ISAC-2, IDA staff indicated that this
implied a range of 0-30 percent for effective protection by FY97.



.20-
49.       The initial, PY3I phase of the tariff reform was Introduced In the
Minister of Pinance's recent Budget and accorded Parliamentary authority in
July. Its implementation by Credit effectiveness will involve reduction of
the very high CD rates which are probably lneffective as either protective or
revenue instrument, and the raising of most low rates including those due to
special concessions and exemptions. Specific guidelines for this compression
comprises
(a) all CD rates above 100 percent are reduced to that 'evel or lower,
except for four product-groups;
(b) products accounting for more than half of the value of Import. now
attracting 100 percent CD are rated at 75 percent or lover;
(c) these and other reductions leave only about three-quarters of the Import
value that attracted CD rates above 50 percent In PY92 continuing to do
so, with about one-quarter mcving to the 7.5 - 45 percent bracket;
(d) a significant proportion of CD concessions and exemptions and other
distinctions among users or similar products are replaced by low or
mocerate rates applicable to all importers, including many categories
raised only to 7.5 percent at this stage to avoid sudden change;
(e) with the noted exceptions, the adjustments yleld a simplified general CD
rate structure of 15, 30, 45, 60 and 75 percent customs duty covering
most imports;
(f) the 2.5 percent advance Income tax (AIT) is made applicable to all
taxpayer-importerst and
(g) the 2.5 percent import permit or LIC authorization fee is retained as a
temporary revenue measure through FY93 rather than justified as part of
the import control structure.
50        For the second, PY94 phase, the rationalization of the protective
instruments would be continued by compressing CD rates within the 7.5 - 45
percent range with few, well justified, temporary exceptions. Specificallys
(a) the import permit/LC& fee would be abolished (or folded into the CD
rates);
(b) 45 (or 50) percent would become the "normal" CD ceiling for final goods
with commensurate reductions for inputs, although 60 percent may occur
in the unlikely event of a revenu emergency;
(c) further adjustments to other parts of the schedule would be made with a
view to limiting effective protection within 60 percent of value added
for most producers;
(d) exceptional nominal rates of 60 or 75 percent (or perhaps even 100 per-
cent) would have to be justified by NTC recommendations for industry
aseiitane;
(e) other remaining inconsistancies of treatment among industries and
comparable production stages would be removed; and
(f) remaining rate differences for similar products, especially within four-
digit RS categories, would be eliminated.
51       Two of these provisions would be subject to qualifications which
have been agreed between GOB and IDAs
* For (b), the uaximum normal rate would not exceed 50 percent,
"acceptable revenue considerations permitting." These would have
to be satisfactory to IDA and would be defined a "unavoidable



shortfalls in other tax and non-tax receipts that could not be
offset by non-protective tax instruments 4ndlor Improved
expenditure control. In case of shortfalls, rates could be
increased, with a maximum of 60S." This formula is considered
satisfactory, since such unavoidable shortfalls are highly
unlikely in view of the desirability of more liberal use of
supplementary duty, the expected Improvements In the direct tax
system, and itport revenue calculations which show that proper
application of the compression of tariff rates would raise revenue
in PY94.
* For (d), the 100 percent rate could a"ply only in a few cases
acceptable to IDA. Othenvise, the NT trecommendations would be
based on acceptable eligibility criteria to justify temporarily
high effective protection through exceptional nominal rates above
50 percent. In all cases they would involve enterprise or
subsector adjustment programs for which RTC's endorsement vould
include provisions mandating declines in the effective protection
by PY97 or FY98 to the general range by then prevailing in
Bangladesh (para. 48).
52.       Other Imuort Taxes. To help ensure that the tariff rationalization
can occur without loss of revenue, it is being coordinated with structural
changes in other indirect taxation. At the beginning of FY92 the Government
began to implement the Value Added Tax Act, 1991, which provides for a
standard 15 percent VAT ou most goods, creditable at successive production
stages and for export sales, and for supplemontary excise duty (SED) at rates
to be determined on some final goods. Unlike the import sales tax and
domestic excise duty instruments which they replace, both instruments are
intended to be trade-neutral, applying to imports and domestic production
alike. Where SED applies, it is calculated like customs duty on the base of
assessed value, and included along vith CD in the base for calculating VAT on
imports. During FY92 domestically produced yarn and textile products wero
exempted from VAT. A non-creditable excise of 2.5 percent has now been
imposed on these goods during PY93, pending their expected inclusion in the
VAT scheme in FY94. Some final products of other industries were subjected to
SED in FY92. Their range is beinB expanded in FY93 to replace some of the
high customs duties which are reduced under the program. More substantial
application of SED to facilitate further customs duty rationalization is
expected for PY94.
53.       Institutional Develouments. Several important organizational
changes accompany the continuing process of rationalizing the structure of
nominal protection provided by import duties and taxes. These include
strengthening and streamlining the process of Customs assessment and
clearance, making the schedule of import taxes transparent to the public, and
developing a full system for tariff analysis and industry assistance through
the new NTC.
54.       The Government is expected to contract international agents to
perform offshore duty assessment In association with import pre-shipment
inspection (PSI); this is expected to improve revenue collection, force a



- 22-
close match between scheduled and collected duties, and thus reduce the
present incentive to keep protective duty rates high on revenue grounds. It
should also contribute to tariff reform by enabling prescribed "tariff values"
to be eliminated -- more efficiently serving their purpose of preventing the
under- or over-invoicing practices by which importers seek to circumvent
taxation or exchange control. These developments should have occurred before
second tranche release. As a trial, in February 1992 the Government announced
the introduction of a scheme for voluntary PSI at importers' expense, without
offshore assessment of duty. This scheme provides for "green channel"
assessment and clearance of PSI certificated imports. So far few such
transactions have occurred, and GOB intends to review its operation jointly
with IDA later in 1992, with a view to ensuring that a fully satisfactory
arrangement is fully operational by the beginning of FY94. That arrangement
could include the normal type of compulsory scheme, operated by agents under
contract to the Government, and removing the need for use of NBR tariff values
in the assessment process.
55.       The National Board of Revenue (NBR) has been engaged during 1990-
92, with IDA's assistance, in complementary tariff and database exercises to
-provide information needed to devise, implement and monitor a tariff
rationalization program. One part of this work has comprised the electronic
compilation of all import tax measures imposed or relieved under various
authorities, leading to the publication of an operative tariff (and tax rate)
schedule (OTS). This identifies the various charges, concessions, and
restrictions applicable to any HS tariff item or subcategory thereof according
to user. The OTS is now being prepared for publication before ISAC-2's
effectiveness. The other part of the work has involved the initiation of a
Customs Information Scheme (CIS). 'When fully developed this would include the
regular monitoring and analysis of Customs' revenue collections in the same
format as the OTS. Ex post processing started with July 1990 imports,
generating data to enable the analysis of revenue proceeds from imports
subject to high duty rates, tariff concessions, and import controls due to be
removed under the program. More recently, daily processing at main Customs
houses has commenced. The next step is to organize and implement a method of
comprehensive reconciliation, also before Credit effectiveness. This
component of the scheme may be set up and managed initially on a contract
basis by an experienced firm, with NBR staff trained to take it over, pending
the proposed implementation of the UN's Automated System for Customs Data
(ASYCUDA) management.
56.       The Government is enhancing the formal status and technical
capability of the Tariff Commission, which should enable it to make fair
assessments of nominal protection (and estimates of effective protection)
provided by actual and proposed tariff regimes. Under legislation now pending
before Parliament, the reformed "National Tariff Commission" is expected to be
accorded quasi-autonomous status, a clear mandate, competent members and
staff, and adequate funding, and to be functional within 1992. Satisfactory
policy and operational guidelines, work program, functional modalities,
budget, management and technical staff form a condition of ISAC-2's
effectiveness, along with mobilization of further technical assistance. The
TA program is considered essential, and has been carefully designed with a
heavy emphasis on technology transfer to local staff; its approval is expected



23 -
shortly for financing under TA-VI in FY93-94. Additional assistance from
other sources may be required as well. These developments should enable the
new organization to make a substantive and authoritative contribution to the
import control and tariff changes expected in the PY94 Budget before release
of ISAC-2's second tranche. Znter &lla, It would have completed studies on
industries most affected by recent or prospective tariff rationalization, and
on the "sensitive" imports still subject to control in FY93 and other aspects
of cross-border trade, as well as preparing the first NTC Annual Report
including a substantive overview of protection levels and issues.
Componeat IIs: Epot Promotion and Duty Relief
57.       Exvort Strateav. While measures to relieve duty and tax on inputs
to export production are clearly essential for encouraging export performance,
it is intended that the proposed Credit should support a broader approach to
export development. This accords with the Government'sa recognition that the
import and exchange liberalization measures will improve but not fully equate
the incentives for export with those for domestic market production. Its
reform program features the development and implementation of a comprehensive
Bangladesh Export Development Strategy (BEDS) for 1992-2000 with emphasis on
removing constraints, expanding markets, and diversifying the export base.
Key components of the strategy GOB has identified may be sumarized as:W
* Creating a new Cabinet level National Committee on Exports to
facilitate positive support for exporters throughout the
Government and regular dialogue with the private sector.
* The regulatory environment is to be relaxed. A recent improvement
allows exporters to retain a proportion of gross proceeds in
foreign exchange to facilitate their business activities (recently
announced as initially 10 percent for most activities or 5 percent
for garments).  Subject to a GOB review, other concrete steps to
be taken before effectiveness to relax the regulatory environment
may include removal of the present restrictions on re-exports and
on "sale-or-return" export shipment.
* The critical importance of the trade and exchange regimes is
recognized, particularly the enhanced role of the exchange rate
vis-a-vis import controls and tariffs to influence imports. In
addition, existing mechanisms for relieving import duty and
taxation are to be further streamlined to provide world prices for
inputs to direct and indirect export producers (paras 59-60).
* More effective institutional arrangements for promoting exports
and foreign investment are being prepared through restructuring
programs for the BOI and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPS), as
well as encouragement of enhaced private sector representation.
W    Summary based on the Eon. Minister of Pinance's policy letter to ID&
dated June 18, 1992 -- see Schadule E.



v 24 v
* Exporters and potential exorters will be encouraged to Increase
the volume of overseas trade through a serieo of positive steps to
improve product and market development, particularly through
improved export marketing techniques, inward investment promotion,
and backward linkages in strategic industries.
* Positive support will be accorded to the export comounity in the
provision of utilities, transport and other government services.
* Both the public sector and the private sector are hindered by a
lack of expertise that reduces their effectiveness in overseas
marketing. An extensive range of short and long-term training
programs are in the course of preparation to enable both exporters
and service suppliers within the bureaucracy to use the increased
opportunities offered through the export strategy.
58.       A public announcement of most aspects of the strategy has been
made. The next steps, to be taken before ISAC-2 would be effective, should
comprise the establishment of necessary institutional arrangements (including
the Cabinet Committee and an Export Assistance Fund), and the development of a
more detailed action plan to identify and remove constraints through FY93 and
beyond. Significant further progress is expected to occur before second
tranche release, both in removing the most serious of the constraints and
undertaking effective promotional activities. In this connection, the more
detailed formulation of the strategy should enhance the Government's
implementation of, inter aIla:
(a) specific actions on Imported inputs (paras 60-61);
(b) the export-related private sector promotion measures which GOB outlined
in its Induwtrlsl Policy 1991;
(c) extension of activities with by USAID TA under the Export Development
Project, which could include, e.g., further work on the Duty Exemption
and Drawback Office (DEDO) and the export credit guarantee scheme, more
training activities, and studies on export financing, trade policy and
promotion institutions;
(d) continuation and extension of the strengthening of the EPB, including
through the support being provided by UNDP and the UNCTAD/GATT
International Trade Centre (ITC); and
(e) new initiatives such as matching grants or other assistance for product
or market development.
The process may be furthered by agreements on additional technical support for
the strategy's implementation which GOB may make with IDA, ITC, USAID, and
other sources of assistance for this purpose.
59.       Bonded Warehousing.  Among the measures to be included in the
strategy would be further improvements in the regime for relieving duty and
tax on inputs. Special bond warehousing (SBW) has been working quite well for
garment and specialized textile exporters for whom the requisite back-to-back
letters of credit are reasonable import payment instruments. Until recently,
other exporters have had to use more cumbersome private bonded warehousing
(PBW) or duty drawback arrangements. Recognizing this problem, GOB began
liberalizing the 8BW regulations in FY92 by extending the facility on a trial



. 25 -
basis to a few non-garment enterprisoes. For boanded warehousing to be
effective, however, the liberalization required further refinements to
(a) suspend duty for other industries with payment arrangements other than
back-to-back LiCs,
(b) allow advance Import of at least one-third of SBW users' established
annual input requirements and preferably of four months, expected
requirements,
(c) suspend duty on machinery and opares, with the involvement of Osponsor-
ing" agencies removed, and
(d) relax the present 30 percent value added rule for certain quota
categories, mainly high-value garments.
These Improvements have now been approved, and should be operating
satisfactorily before ISAC-2's effectiveness. The machinery duty exemption
would be limited to 100 percent exporters until a means for pro-rating the
exemption can be developed (for introduction before second tranche release).
60.       Duty Rebate.  Over recent years GOB has been strengthening the duty
drawback scheme, and various actions -- including the assistance being
provided to DEDO under the EDP -- have occurred during FY92 to make the scheme
a more efficient source of relief for exporters who cannot use the bonding
facilities. The further progress to be supported by ISAC-2 is well under way.
Its first phase comprises four elements:
(a) DEDO has been better funded and staffed, authorized to issue rebates,
and guided by an operations committee with exporter representation;
(b) coordination is being improved between the administration of exporters'
drawback and VAT rebate procedures;
Cc) 335 products representing a substantial proportion of current exports
have been covered by pre-determined ("flat rate") drawback; and
(d) the procedures for processing applications have been streamlined so
payments cm be effected within five days for flat rate products and
within 30 lays where case-by-case calculation occurs ("actual rates").
To provide the impetus for more improvement in the performance of the scheme
prior to second tranche release, the Government has set a target of 50 new
flat rates per month during FY93 and anticipates continuing TA to facilitate
this. Flat rates would be set for about 1000 products by early FY94, with all
rates being updated annually, while the procedures are to be further stream-
lined to allow applications to be processed even faster. In addition, GOB is
giving serious consideration to the implementation by FY94 of temporary
admission arrangements for promoting backward linkages to indirect exportors
(e.g., fabric weavers and finishers supplying the ready-made garment
industry).
Comonftnt IIPs Yrivate Soctor Develoument (PSMI
61.       The proposed ISAC-2 would also support PSD through: the conversion
of GOB's stance towards investment from regulation to promotion; the
commencement of a multifaceted attack on controls over investment and exchange
transactions, business laws and legal procedures, and other aspects of the
regulatory environent which impede efficient industry and commerce; and a
serious endeavor to make fiscal and other incentives more efficient and
effective.



- 26-
62.       Investment Control.  The Government has already Implemented some
measures to reduce obstacles to private foreign and domestic investment, and
has recently decided on further liberalisation. Among the former controls
that have been eliminated are all indlcative lvestment and "discouraged
industries" schedulest a requirement for public listing when capital exceeds
Tk 10 million; the need for approval of publicly listed limited companies'
chief executive salary rates; and public oversight of investments funded by
entrepreneurs or private banks. Meanwhile, oversight of other Industrial
investments (exercised through the B01) is being phased out. In July 1991 it
was restricted to large investment projects financed by public financial
institutione, with the celling for approval by DFlT  and NCB. raised to Taka
300 million (about US$8.5 million), and with removal of distinctions between
the treatment of domestic and foreign tivestments. GOB has now decided to
eliminate oversight of private investment altogether, prior to the
effectiveness of ISAC-2. Industrial Pollcy 1991 is being revised to give
effect to this decision, and to limit Government Intervention to normal
business registration, appropriate social regulation (para. 63), and the
administration of incentives or the provision of services by or through the
BOI, BEPZA and BSCIC (para. 68). With these exceptions, the "sponsoring" or
"patronizing" functions of GOB agencies are being abolished. Among the
approvals, allocations and entitlements to be eliminated are those relating to
private firms' production capacity changes and machinery imports.
63.       The former positive and negative investment schedules were replaced
in Zndustrlsl Polley 1991 by a short list of activities reserved to public
enterprise. Tree entry in all other industries is subject only to provision
for the regulstion of some activities in the public interest. GOB has now
decided to curtail the reserve list further to allow private investment
throughout the power and telecommunications sectors, and to reconsider the
need for reserving activities such as air transport and perhaps railways and
export oriented defense industries. Appropriate regulation would replace such
reservation. GOB is commencing a study to review the scope and implementation
of industrial regulations relating to environment, factory safety, depletable
resource management, etc., with a view to bringing tham into line with best
international practices and introducing automaticity and transparency in
enforcement.. The study would be completed in time for recommendations to be
adopted before ISAC-2's second tranche would be released.
64*       Exchanse Control. GOB liberalized the exchange control regime at
the beginning of FY93 as part of its overall program of deregulating private
enterprise. In addition to measures relating specifically to exporters
(paras. 58-59), more transparent BOI or Bmagladssh Bank guidelines have been
issued for several types of control, allowing some Individual transactions to
occur without prior approval. Procedures are being established for the 80I to
deal with others within one week. This approach is now available for:
(a) suppliers' credit and other foreign borrowing, and payments of interest
and principal thereon;
(b) royalty and other fees for technology transfer;
(c) expatriate employees' savings;
(d) back-to-back L/Cs against export L/Cs5 and
(s) term borrowing by foreign invested firms from domestic banks.



*27 -
In the remittance of dividends and capital gains, tax withholding is replacing
the need to submit income tax returns. GOB also intends to allow domestic
firms automatic access to foreign exchange for meeting foreign training end
consultancy expenses, with satisfactory guidelines to be established. All of
these liberalized procedures should be fully operational before the Credit's
effectiveness, vhile further reforms to relax exchange controls are expected
to be identified during FY93 for implementation before second tranche release.
65.       Legg  Refom. Preliminary findings of a study commissioned by the
Ministry of Industry, with assistance from the World Bank Group's Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) and IDA's TA-V, indicate that outdated laws
and a highly inefficient judicial system pose severe problems for efficient
private enterprise and discourage investment, especially from abroad. The
study has now been completed and should be reviewed within the Government
shortly. Taking its recommendations into account, GOB intends to reactivate
earlier initiatives and formulate a broader program to modernize business laws
and legal procedures to facilitate the entry, operation and exit of commercial
and industrial firms. Covering such topics as incorporation, insolvency,
baikruptcy and financial courts, contracts, and patents and other protection
of private property, the aim is to identify opportunities for improving the
relevant laws, court procedures, judicial performance, and administrative
rules and regulatio'.is. This should lead to a first batch of reforms being
implemented before Credit effectiveness, including at least
(a) an end to the delay which has occurred in the establishment of a
judicial training institute with adequate staff and budget, and
(b) strengthening of the legal drafting capability of the Ministry of Law
and Justice.
The revision of the Companies Act also should be completed shortly, while
substantial further progress is expected to be made on revising other laws and
procedures noted above prior to second tranche release. This process could be
assisted by the formation of an administrative law review committee and/or a
business (or, preferably, permanent general) law reform commission to help
ensure that the legal system would always keep pace with the demands placed on
it to support the country's economic development. GOB is expected to decide
on such modalities shortly.
66.       Investment Incentives. A parallel study, commissioned by the MOI
on the need for reforms in the investment incentives structure to make it both
effective and efficient, is nearing completion. Its preliminary findings
accord generally with the problems identified in the context of the PRM&C, and
it would be followed up during FY93 with the additional operational analysis
needed to support the reform of the company tax regime more quickly than was
envisaged under that Credit. Apart from the removal of concessionary rates as
part of the tariff reform program (paras 47-50) and the removal of interest
rate subsidies under the ESAF program, the study suggests that changes in the
fiscal regime to make it more conducive to efficient private enterprise could
be designed in the following areas:
(a) standardization and lowering of the corporate income tax rate, tax
holidays, and tax on income from export production;
(b) the requirement for exempted income to be invested in government paper;
(c) tax on dividends;
(d) use of accelerated depreciation and/or investment allowances;



(e) the deductibility of iuterest charged but not paidt
(f) tightening of tax administration through Improved NBR procedures;
(g) liability for directors, managers and/or auditors responsible for
financial statementsI
(h) use of the same accounts for tax and lending purposesl and
(i) establishment of appeal and arbitration procedures independent of NBR.
Based on results of the additional operational analysis on such topics which
it intends to commence before Credit effectiveness, GOB would implement a
satisfactory first batch of fiscal reforms before the second tranche would be
released.
67.       Xnvsestment Promotion.  The Government has committed itself to a
promotional stance towards the private sector involving, Inter alsa,
restructuring the BOI and streamlining its operations during PY93 to emphasize
the promotional role it will play following the removal of its regulatory
functions (para" 62, 64). Further developments in this area are to be
stimulated by a public/private sector task force which GOB has formed with
broad responsibility to formulate proposals on investment promotion and other
aspects of PSD. An action plan is to be formulated before ISAC-2 would be
effective, following GOB's current review of the task force's initial advice.
68.       The BOI is being given permanent responsibity for helping identify
and remove Impediments to efficient procurement, production and marketing
activities, and for recommending appropriate changes in non-tariff incentives
for Industrial development through foreign and domestic investment. A report
recommending structural and functional changes for the BOI has been prepared
under hIAS supervision, and the Government has shifted the agency from the NOt
(where It had inherited functions and staff from the former Department of
Industries) to the Prime Minister's Office, upgraded the status of its
Executive Chairman, and initiated the design of further organizational changes
to reflect its new mandate. The latter would be adopted formally, qualified
Board members appointed, and the BO5 secretariat substantially restaffed
before Credit effectiveness, and GOB has requested further FIA8 assistance to
implement further reforms in a three-year program funded by the UNDP under a
project document signed in May 1992. Helped by the first phase of this
support, the reformed BOI is intended to be operating satisfactorily to
promote and facilitate foreign and domestic investment in all sectors of the
economy before the second tranche would be released.
gffectivyeuss and Second Trancie CondUtions
69.       The Matrix of Policy Actions (Schedule C) lists actions which would
be monitored under the Credit. A number of important policy changes were
announced in the FY93 Budget which was presented to Parliament on June 18,
1992, while other changes and supplesmetary details have been announced
through official press statemento and notices since then. Implementation of
this ambitious PY93 set of reforms has already commenced, and is scheduled for
completion before the Credit would be effective. In several cases, however --
notably the NTC establishment, final FY93 OTS publication, import duty
assessment and reconciliation, and the export and PSD action programs -- the
general approval by GOB of the negotiated ISAC-2 program may require more



- 29-
specific authorization before Implementation of the first phase can be
completed. In the case of the ITC, the passage of legislation is required.
70.       The listed actions to be monitored area
(i) Actions to be Taken trior to Iffectiveness
COMPONENT I: IMPORT EGULATION AND TAXATION.- Public announcement of medium
term goal of trade refortm effective protection reduced to low levels
prevailing In internationally competitive developitg countries (through
inclusion in NTC policy guidelines).
A. Import Controls.- Implementation (IPO/OTS publication and public
announcement) of the removal of import controls: (a) all but agreed CL items;
(b) all but agreed, codified IPO text itemso (c) passbooks; (d) import
functions of CCII not needed for retained QRs; and (e) permit activities of
sector Ministries; with consequent restructuring of CCII/BOI/other agencies'
functions.
B. Tariff StructureZf.- Implementation (OTr publication) of agreed LCA/
permit fee and AIT changes plus following CD rate changess (a) apart from 4
agreed product-groups, all now above 1001 to -0751 for most or 1002 for some;
(b) about half (by CY91 Import value) of now at 1001 to 752 or less; (c) about
one-quarter (by CY91 import value) of now above 501 to below 501, inclueing
significant inputs to (a) and (b); (d) all now below 7.51 to 7.5 or 151 except
some agreed items at zerot and (e) consolidation to eliminate all distinctions
between users and most between similar products within HS-4 headings.
C. Trade-neutral TaxeslV.- Implementation (OTS publication) of trade
neutrality for levies other than CDILP/AIT with satisfactory schedules for
VAT, ED (for VAT-exempt domestic textiles) end SID.
D. Import Administration.- 1. Satisfactory NBR -arrangements operationa for
reconciling assessment and receipts data, reoolving discrepancies, and
training NXBR staff therein. 2. Satisfactory procedures and operation of
voluntary PSI scheme. 3. Publication of FY93 OTS.
ZJ   Basic rules for rationalizing CD/LFIAIT schedules: (a) CD as the only
protective instrument In Import taxation (VAT/SED trade-neutral); (b) no user-
defined CD rates; (c) eight CD levels: 0, 7.5, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 & perhaps 1001,
with zero for. specified non-trade reasons, 7.5 for specified primary inputs,
15/30/45 for most raw/semi/final goods, and 60/75/1100 under RTC agreements, with
some FY93 exceptions: see Iffectiveness; (d) LCA/permit fee applied as temporary
revenue measure in FY93; and (e) Advance lAcome tax applied to all taxpayer
Importers.
I    Based on agreed (a) rules for 8ID at several rates on significant
range of final goods to help offset poGeible revenue loss from CD decreases; and
(b) plans for trade-neutrality for textile. (partial in FY93).



-30-
E. Protection Analysis.- 1. Announcement of Intended NTC reform (in advance
of legislation). 2. Commencoment of ETC operations witht (a) satisfactory
policy guidelines within or approved pursuant to its legislation; (b) approved
and satisfactory operating procedures, organization, staffing, budget and TA
requirements and work program; (a) assigment of staff and mobilization of TA.
COMPONENT II: EXPORT DEVELOPENT
F. Export Promotion Strategy.- Implementation of agreed BEDS action plan und
TA requirements for PY93-94 including: (a) establishment of Cabinet Committee,
Export Council, Export Assistance Fund; (b) EPB strengthening; (c) satisfac-
tory concrete steps to relax regulatory environmnt, possibly including bans
on re-export and consignment sales (subject to review).
G. World-priced Inputs.- Satisfactory operation of improvedlexpanded SBW
scheme.21
COMPONENT III:  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT.-  Formulation of action programs
for further reforms in FY93 (in addition to those noted below) and in early
FY94, based on inter-agency review of OI studies' findings.
H. Investment Controls.- 1. Revision of IP-91, includings (a) elimination of
BOI/BSCIC/BEPZA oversight of DFI/INCB-funded projects and of all approvals,
allocations, etc. other than for the purpose of delivering incentives/services
through BOI/BSCIC/BEPZA; (b) eliidnation of requirement for approval of
production capacity changes and machinery imports; (c) curtailment of reserved
list to allow private investment in power and telecoms (with other industries
to be considered); with public announcement thereof. 2. Commencement of study
on scope and implementation of industrial regulation relating to environment
and safety.
I.   Exchange Controls.-  1. Flexible management of the exchange rate to allow
the exchange rate to help, in part, protect rroduction during tariff rational-
ization. 2. Satisfactory implementation of: (a) the recently announced
relaxation and streamlining of exchange controls; and (b) automatic access to
foreign exchange for domestic firms' foreign training and consultancy
expenses; under satisfactory guidelines.
J. Legal Reform.- 1. Satisfactory arrangements for: (a) establishmt of
judicial traing institute; and (b) strengthening the legal drafting staff in
Ministry of Law and Justice. 2. Completion of a review, and formulation and
announcement of a satisfactory prograu of reform of business law, legal
institutions, and legal and administrative procedures.
it' SBW improvement/expansion to any Industry would allow: (a) non-back-
to-back L/C credit arrangements, (b) advance import of one-third of the greater
of last or next annual requirements, (c) duty suspension on machinery & spares
(1001 exporters FY93) w/ont involvemt of *sponsoring" agencies, and (d) relaxatn
of 301 VA requiremt for high-value items.



- 31-
K. Investment Incentives.- Commuencement of study to prepare changes in the
fiscal regime affecting commerce and industry with respect to corporate tax
rates, holidays, allowances and deductions, as well as adminlstration,
liability and appeal.
L. Investment Promotion.- 1. Formulation of action plan following review of
Task Force report. 2. Implementation of approved BOX reorganization under new
mandate, appointment of qualified Board members, substantial restaffing of
secretariat, and mobilization of TA.
(ii) Actions to be Taken Drior to Second Tranche
COMPONENT Is IMPORT REGULATION and TAXATION
A. Import Controls.- Removal of remaining import controls apart from agreed
non-trade requirements.
B. Tariff Structure.- Implementation (by OTS publication) of: (a) dual CD
maxima - 751 for NTC-approved, time-bound industry adjustment programs
(perhaps 1001 in a few agreed cases), and 501 for other imports (acceptable
revenue considerations permitting); (b) other CD adjustments needed to make
effective protection moderate for most activities, any exceptions being
explicitly on the basis of ETC recommendations; and (c) elimination of LF.
C. Trade-neutral Taxes.- Implementation (OTS) of: (a) imposition of trade
neutral taxation of textile.; and (b) revised SED schedule to accommodate CD
reduction from 75ll00I/>l00 to 45/60/752.
D. Import Administration.- 1. Satisfactory reconciliation of 12 months'
import data. 2. Satisfactory operation of PSIA echor-e witht (a)
prequalification and contractual arrangements with GOB, (b) agents' valuation
prevailing over tariff values and (c) certificates including dutyltax
assessmts; pursuant to formal GOB/IDA review of voluntary PSI scheme conducted
by November 1992 to determine need for such improvements. 3. Publication of
FY94 OTS.
E. Protection Analysis.- Satisfactory operation of NTC and completion of FY93
studies/hearings/reports on: (a) industries most affected by the tariff
rationalization; (b) "sensitive" imports now subject to QR; (c) others agreed
in setting the FY93 work program;, and (d) first annual report with general
protection review.
COMPONENT IIt EXPORT DEVELOiEENT
F. Export Promotion Strategy.- Satisfactory implementation of further
measures under BEDS.
G. World-priced Inputs.- 1. Continued expansion and satisfactory operation
of duty drawback schemes including extension of flat rate coverage by 50 a
month or other satisfactory number. 2. Continued expansion and satisfactory
operation of the SBW scheme, including pro-rating machinerylspares duty
suspension for non-lOOl exporters.



-32 -
COMPONENT Ill: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
H. Investment Controls.- Satisfactory implementation of further reforms
including those based on study of industrial regalation and review of reserved
industries.
1.  Exchange Controls.-  1. Continued satisfactory operation of flexible
exchange management. 2. Satisfactory implementation of further relaxation of
exchange controls.
J. Legal Reform.- Satisfactory Implementation of initial reforms.
K. Investment Incentives.- Satisfactory implementation of initial fiscal
reforms.
L. Investment Promotion.- Satisfactory progress in 301 operations and other
agreed mechanisms to promote and facilitate foreign and domestic iuvestment in
all sectors of the economy.
C. Credlt Arranoements
7?.       Borrower and Participan B. In view of Bangladesh's continuing need
for program aid, the proposed Credit would finance general import of goods
(apart from those specified in a short list of ineligible items), mainly by
the private sector, and associated services such as transport, insurance and
pro-shipment inspection. The Taka proceeds would support the Budget. The
Economic Relations Department is coordinating several agencies' activities
under the program, Including other branches of the Ministry of Pinance such as
its exchange rate policy staff, and NBR for Customs, VAT, SBW and DEDO
matters. Other involved agencies would be the MOI, the BO3 now located in the
Prime Minister's Office on investment promotion and related PSD issues, the
new NTC$, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) for exchange rats and control and credit
disbursement matters, the Ministry of Commerce on import control and
procedures and supervision of the EPl, and the Ministry of Law and Justice for
legal reform.
72.       Credit Amount and Release of Funds.  The proposed credit of SDR
72.2 million (US$100 million equivalent) accounts for about 1 percent of
Bangladesh's gross import requirements over the two-year period of the reform
program, so is relatively modest when compared to the latter's
comprehensiveness. This is reasonable since (a) the major actions under the
program are also supported by the ESAP, and (b) the program is phased to
minimize adverse revenue and BOP effects. It would be released in two equal
tranches of $50 million subject to the conditions of effectiveness and second
tranche disbursement outlined above and in Schedule C. The latter is expected
to occur around July 1993, following presentation of the FY94 Budget.
73.       Disbursement and Procurement.  The Credit would utilize similar
disbursement and procurement arrangements to those established for the Energy
and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits, but with some changes to strengthen
its support for PSD. Diebursements would be made against 100 percent of



.3-
foreign exchange costs of eligible imports on the basis of fully documented
withdrawal applications prepared by Bangladesh Bank (BB), except for contracts
of US$100,000 equivalent or below which would be on the basis of statements of
expenditures. It is expected that the Credit vould be disbursed within 18
months of Board approval. A Special Account of $20 million would be
established in BB for the refinancing of eligible imports. The accounts
related to ISAC-2 would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, and a certified copy of the audit report would be provided
to IDA within nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The report would
contain separate opinions regarding the controls and procedures adopted for
the SOgs and for handling the Special Account. All supporting documents would
be retained at BB or other agreed entity involved in monitoring of the credit,
for review by the auditors and IDA supervision missions.
74..      Procurement would be limited to goods from countries eligible under
the Bank's guidelines. Ineligible items would comprise military hardware,
luxury goods and environmentally hazardous materials (listed in the DCA). No
more than 25 percent of each tranche of the credit (totalling a combined SDR
18,050,000 equivalent) would be used for goods imported by or specifically for
public sector agencies or enterprises; and no more than a combined US$7
million equivalent worth of oil products and private food imports would be
financed. Public imports of foodgrains would be ineligible, as would
contracts of under $50OO equivalent for public sector imports but of under
$15,000 equivalent for private sector Imports. Contracts for items costing $5
million equivalent or more would be procured under ICB procedures with prior
IDA approval, while lesser contracts could be awarded through established
commercial practices for such purchases by private entities]W or through
GOD'. public procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity markets
or other channels of competitive procurement, also with IDA's prior approval.
75.       Technical Assistance and Cofinancing. Several of the reform
program elements involve coordination vith other donors' assistance to
Government agenciess
* The UNDP is sup porting three major activitiess the development by
UNCTAD of the Automated System for Customs Data Control (ASYCUDA)
which is to replace the IDA-supported Customs Information Scheme;
the technical assistance now being provided to the Uxport
Promotion Bureau by the UNCTAD/GATT International Trade Centre;
and the TA due to be provided to the Board of Investment by FIAS.
* United States AID has been providing project assistance to several
export schemes under the EDP and is now considering a modification
to the project to extend that work in some key areas of the BEDS
1992-2000. It is also proposing to assist IDA sector work in FY93
1W These procedures generally include the invitation of quotations from
at least three suppliers, except that direct contracting may be used in
conformity with IDA's Guidelneas for the Procurement of Goods.



. 34 -
which would help monitor the performance of the industry sector in
response to the reforms.
* The Dutch and Irish trust funds _odged with the Bank have financed
IDA consultants to assist the preparation of the export and PSD
components, while the Irish and UK funds have financed part of
IDA's contribution to a joint IDAIGOB study on the textile
subsector which has helped develop the import component.
e The Asian Development Bank is providing balance of payments
support and technical assistance for reform of the public
enterprise sector, which should assist the rationalization of
investment to be oncouraged by the changes in incentives under the
ISAC-2 program. The ADD and other donors are also assisting work
on the environment related to industry (para. 79).
* Japan's OECF has been invited to consider cofinancing the proposed
Credit, perhaps in the amount of $50 million.
76.       In addition to the above mentioned TA provided by ITC, FIAS, USAUD
and Bank trust funded consultants, IDA's TA-V has supported equipment and
personnel for the CIS and a recently appointed advisor on customs research and
statistics including preparation of the OTS (through NBR), as well as both
local and foreign consultancy services for the preparation of the regulatory,
legal, incentives, and investment promotion elements and GOB's contribution to
the textile study (through BTC). FIAS has also contributed staff time to the
PSD preparation. The recently approved TA-VI would support a larger sub-
project to help NTC and may be used also for GOB's planned further development
of reforms in the legal and tax systems.
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement
77.       Exoerience with Adius&tent Lendjin. A recent evaluation report has
reviewed the Association's experience in supporting policy reform in
Bangladesh in the context of 13 annual Import Program Credits provided through
FY86.1V  Based on a decision of the Loan Committee in February 1986, IDA
discontinued the IPCs and switched to a mix of sectoral and structural
adjustment credits in order to bring adjustment operations in Bangladesh
closer in line with overall Bank policies in this area. Your adjustment
operations have been approved since FY86; draft PCRs have been prepared for
the Industrial Sector Credit (FY87) and the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
(FY89), while the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY90) is under
implementation and the Public Resource Management Credit has been approved
recently. The experience with these credits confirms the major conclusions of
the OED report. Adjustment lending in Bangladesh has been effective in
encouraging the Government to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework.
However, the Government's performance in meeting specific conditions in
1  Bangladeshb Review of the Experience with Pollcy Reforms In the 19800,
OED Report No. 8874, June 29, 1990.



-35-
adjustment credits has been generally mixed and often subject to long delays,
as well as instances of backsliding. While most of the reforms agreed with
the Government are eventually mplemented (although often outside the specific
timeframe of the credit), this experience provides several lessons for
adjustment lending that have been incorporated into the ISAC-2 design. These
include the needs tos
(a) establish a satisfactory basis of understanding with the Government on
the need for and expected Impact of proposed reforms, drawing if
possible on prior ESW;
(b) establish the Government's commitment to the program by asking for
substantial implementation of the most important policy reforms prior to
the approval of the credit;
(c) focus policy agreements on a well-defined set of actions; and
(d) once the policy actions are agreed with the Government, monitor them
closely and ask for full compliance.
78.       Trade and Industry Involvement.  IDA has played a leading role in
raising issues of trade and tax reform and Industrial development to the
attention of the Governmant, both as chairman of the Aid Group and through the
preparation of several major economic studies and country economic memoranda
on relevant issues. It has also conducted intensive sector work on industry
over the past year, with particular recent focus on regulatory constraints,
and plans to continue this work in FY93. Its recently heightened interest in
problems associated with the legal environment and the structure of non-tariff
incentives has been complemented by the involvement of FIAS, which was already
working with GOB for several years to develop a program of support for
investment promotion. The ISAC-2 represents the culmination of a policy
dialogue based on extensive analysis and consultations with the Government on
trade and regulatory policy, and it would provide a framework for monitoring
the implementation of the reforms over a sufficient time period to ensure that
they are fully institutionalized. This is supported by the Government's
request that consideration be given to another credit, following ISAC-2, to
support the continuation of the trade reform during FY95-97. IDA is the only
agency that combines the requisite experience of macroeconomic management,
industrial development, and trade policy reform necessary to prepare the ISAC-
2, and approval of the Credit would provide a strong endorsement of the
Government's continuing commitment to address these problems in a sound and
responsible fashion.
79.       Social Impact.  The main contribution which the reform program
should make is the reduction of consumer prices through readier access to
imports and ti- wdithdrawal of the subsidies which consumers are now forced to
provide to pro;. cted domestic industries.  This should also benefit labor
intensive small-scale production activities (e.g. hand looms) which would be
able to acquire inputs on more favorable terms through coimercial importers
who are now disadvantaged by comparison with direct, industrial importers.
Medium and large Industries also should be able to offer more employment in
the longer term, as the program causes reorientation of the iudustrial
structure on the basis of Bangladesh's comparative advantage. On the other
hand, temporary dislocation in the industrial labor force is expected to occur
in spite of the gradual phasing of the incentives reform and the emphasis
which the program places on stimulating job creation in export activities and



- 36 -
through foreign investment and other PSD. Much of the dislocation may be
represented by retrenchment in the large public Industries, and the Government
is developing plans to mitigate this, Inter asl under the present ADD support
for public enterprise reform and a proposed IDA operation in the jute sector.
80.       EnvironmentSl Imnact. The reforms supported by the proposed credit
are intended to increase exports, and It is likely that among the Industries
that will benefit are those that are currently significant polluters,
including the tanneries and textile mills which account for half the polluting
industrial plants identified by the Department of the Environment. However
the Credit will also support duty exsmption for machinery imports for
exporters, and this wil tend to encourage the import of aore modern, less
polluting machinery from th. industrialised world. In addition, the recently
approved Private Sector Investment Credit, throu8h a TA component, supports
the establishment of environmental guidelines and enforceable regulatory
standards for industry, and the monitoring of compliance with these standards
in three industrial subsectors to be selected by the Government. The PSIC
will complement thq ADB initiative which Is supporting institutiozwl
strengthening of the Department of Environment to enable it to formulate and
implement environmental guidelines for tanneries and textile mills. The ADB
is also providing a line of credit which includes funding for industrial
pollution abatement equipment, and advice on engineering processes and waste
recycling. In addition, the Dutch Government offered in 1987 to donate a
central waste treatment plant for the tanneries In Nazaribagh, Dhaka, which
the GOB refused on the grounds that it has plans to transfer these tanneries
to an estate outside Dhaks. However, UNIDO is reviewing a proposal for a
similar plant which would be converted to other uses following the tanneries
relocation.
81.       Pro1eted Benefits. The proposed reform program is expected to
pi wide opportunities for existing and potential industrial producers. Three
broad types of contribution to private sector development stand out. Pirst,
measures such as the deregulation of investment, legal reform, the increased
transparency of tariff policy, and reducing the tax content of export
production should increase producers' ability to respond quickly to changing
market conditions. Second, the removal of QRs and the rationalization and
lowering of the tariff structure will reduce the discrimination against
exports and increase the country's competitiveness and potential for export-
led growth. Moreover, the export promotion, deregulation and investment
incentives elements of the package should belp realize that potential by
hastening the expected supply response. Third, the *ssociated technical
assistance elements for institutional strengthening should enhance GOB's
capacity for efficient performance in both policy making and the delivery of
services, especially to exporters and potential investors.
82.       Risks. The erosion of the high degrees of protection for certain
activities brought about by the reform program could be thwarted by
inefficient producer and mployee interest groups, including state
enterprises. Delays could also occur In the necessary institutional
developments to support the program. Much will depend on the Government's
ability to persuade affected and organlzed interest groups that the proposed
exchange rate action and PMD mesures will effectively substitute for some



.37. 
lost tariff protection, that Bangladesh car Ill afford an incentive structure
which directs resources towards relatively Inefficient activitlee, and to
persuade prospective investors who would be responsible for the supply
response that the reforms Initiated now vill be sustained and deepened over
the medium term. Within the program itself, the wain means of reducing the
risk of the reforms stalling is the proposed strengtheanig of the Tariff
Commission -- supported by the efforts to clarify the tariff schedule, reduce
smuggling, and disentangle revenue Issues -- In order to facilitate focussed
deba,te on the transfers implied by high and uneven protection. At root,
however, success will depend on OB3's ability to implement policies which
serve general welfare rsther than narrow interests. The size of the proposed
Credit, the perception of ISAC-2 as an essential concomitant of the PPPIE8AF
program, and the prospect of further IDA support in 1995-97 should help this.
83.       To further minimize the risk of hesitant implementation of or back-
sliding from the reform program, the credit would need to be intensively
supervised, with IDA staff standing ready tot (a) help strengthen the
Government's analysis of relationships between the policy regime, production
patterns and levels, the foreign exchange market, and revenue collgctiona (b)
carefully review the performance, problems and prospects of industries through
FY93 sector work; (c) monitor continuing regulatory, legal and other possible
constraints on the supply responses (d) participate in tih monitoring of
revenue collections and the joint formal review of the pre-shipment Inspection
scheme; (e) help facilitate and coordinate the 1Y93-94 technical assistance
proposed for the BO1, ITC, Customs, and the export promotion strategy; and (f)
assist as required the Government's design of the legal and incetives reforms
to be implemented by early FY94. More staff resources than the normal annual
coefficient of staff-weeks are being allocated for this purpose, and increased
cooperation is anticipated with the United States and other bilateral donors.
-vART III. R$COMN3ND&TION
84.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
October 2, 1992



BANGLADESH: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS a/
(In percont, anles. otherwise noted)
PRELIM.  -      -PROJECTED---
1966     1967     1988     1989     1990    1991      1992     1998     1994     1095
OP Growth Rate                          4.6      4.1      2.?      2.4      5.5      3.2      8.2      C.0      5.0      5.0
QDP/Caplta Growth Rate                  2.0      1.6      0.2      0.0      8.1      0.8      0.8      2.6      2.6      2.6
09 Deflator                             9.6     11.0      7.0      7.9      6.S      8.5      S.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Debt  rPvice (in USS)                   470      677      628      624 541           o11      510      497      5s6      682
Debt eervice/XCS                       26.2     27.9    22.5      21.0     19.5    20.2      14.9     13.0    18.4      18.8
Debt s.rvic./G00                        8.0      8.8      2.6      2.6      2.8      2.7      2.2      2.0      2.0      1.9
Gross Investment/GDP                   12.4    12.6    11.8    11.0    11.1    10.6    11.9    18.7    14.2    14.6
Domestic Savings/GOP                    2.6      8.7      2.5      0.7      1.8      8.6      5.1      6.7      6.6      7.2
National S vings/GOP                    6.4      7.1      6.9      4.1      4.8      6.6      8.9      9.2      9.9     10.2
Pubitc InvestOCst/COP                   0.1      6.4      6.a      5.0      4.8      5.0      6.0      6.4      6.5      6.9
Public Saving/CDP b/                    1.2      1.2    -0.4       0.0     -0.6      0.1      1.4      2.0      2.6      2.?
Private Inv xO nt/UP b/                 6.8      6.2      6.4      6.0      6.8      6.8      6.9      7.8      7.7      7.8
Privte Savlasoe/00P                     4.2      6.0      6.8      4.2      5.1      0.6      7.5      7.1      7.4      7.6
ROtio of Publc/Privteo Inv              1.0      1.0      0.6      0.8      0.6      0.9      1.0      0.6      0.6      0.9          W
Govornmn t Revenues/cOP                 9.1      6.9      8.9      9.1      9.2      9.6     11.0     11.6     11.9     12.8
Goveeomnt Expeaditures/GDP             16.6    17.8    16.7    16.4        16.6     16.8     16.8     18.8     18.5     16.S
Dfetiit(-) or Surplus(+)/GDP           -7.6    -8.4    -7.7    -7.8        -7.0    -0.6    -5.8        6.9      6.8    -6.2
Export Growth Rate                    -12.8    81.1    14.?        4.4     16.5    12.7    14.1    11.1    12.8    11.8
Export/GDOP                             6.8      6.1      6.5      8.8      6.7      7.6      6.0      8.6      6.9      9.0
Import Growth Rate                    -10.7     10.0     14.0     18.0     11.4    -7.7       2.3     16.4      9.2      9.8
Imports/WGP                            15.2    14.9    15.7       16.5     16.6     15.4     15.S     16.9    16.7    16.6
Current Account (USS)                 -1064     -968    -1111    -1402   -1541      -982     -674    -1126    -1195    -1814
Currnt Account/GOP                     -7.0    -5.5    -S.6    -6.9    -6.8    -4.1          -2.9     -4-4 4.8    -4.8
a/ Dta for tical Year ending June 80.
ODing to dats ltmttattess, operating surpluo and deficit. of public enterprise  are,
Included In private *svinPs while a portion of public  nterprise  nvestonOt                                                       cn
(that Is channeled throuOh the AOP) to iacluded In public * cter investmet.                                                  m    n
*    lb



-39-
Schedule A
3*1* 02 OP PAf                                 ag La 1
UU          * A1111 Mwo$
(hISMelhe es  t airiet primes)
_1                               ~~~~~~Pftl1*. - o l _td-
1660  iOU   1987   1986   i1.  i990         01  s191   18   1         l9 o 196
A. ExP         of et e0s  AUS       6     118    180    1416   s      19 ls 2n6  1           2     21     8246
1. Meeelee (Om                    722   98    1074   12    I21   I           2   1960  2        24   20
2. N.e-eter Serviese              16    220   227    211   812   870    89    416   446   496   52
B. lapo t of Goo& a WS            -26   -26   -26  -82  -80   -418   -86  -8920  -4M    401   -474
1. Mereamilzs (PM               -12  -2647  -262  -2966  -S8   -85    -8410  -80  -4202  -46   -6041
2. Iee-PFator Servies            -1n   -21t  -OU   -266  -3     -86     -815   -876  -8    -416  -466
C. Re _  "aeI                     -iC0   -1700  -i    -1M   -2tOS  -22    -167   -1641 -97w  -2066  -22
0. Net Fteor I_                      14   -90   -12    -18   -100   -180   -104   -77   -78    -0    N47
1. F  tsRe ipts                    ..    so       5 U                as       a     82    90    12    148
2. Faster Payet                   -76   -140   -157   -163   -167   -18t  -      -16   -1s0  -17n   -t16   -210
(inture"t Pays")
E. Nat Curret Trnfes                210    4"    781    760    6#6    02    640   O4a        2     961   97
1. Cures Reei te
S. -omsre saittnue           17    47    ON    m         771           7C4    181  648   6n 
6. other sret tees.  ..                0     8      5s    66    41       62   130    68    60    s0
2. Curet PsatA                     ..      0     ..    ..    ..    ..        ..     ..
F. Curren Aceswu  blames          -1486 -1814   46  '12  -1816  -1541   -086   t7.6* -112  -2.94 -1814
0. Leng-Tor Capital  1s1f low      2M    1246   188   1416  151   17U4   176  168   167   1970  206
1. Oirot" eveetssm                 0      0       2     0      0      0       0      *     1o    is    20
2. Oflell CapitalGra m92    701   du                  628   6n  sao    914   M           Noo  S8 
S. Neo LT Loa   (U 4aa)           SW    5       79    711    641   64       on    us 6    o16   its   119
a. Olormm                      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..   1176  1166   1827  141U  1617
b. Reem t                      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    228   248   256   29    827
4. Otb  LTU latflee (Nt)           07   -12   -1i0    -"       -1   -24      ..     ..    ..       .
H. Tota Othe It_m  (sot)            -48    -10   -109  -210   -82  -819   -220  -100  -160  -160  -160
1. Neb Sort Tes Capital           11    -s  -100  -140   -101  -181   -100    -0    -60   -60   -0
2. Capitol f1e II.E.               0      0       0     0      0      0       0      0      a      0      0
S. Errors end Oloel              -64      4     40    -C       s0  -198   -12 0    - 00 -8 0            40 0
1. Change to Net serves            2081    77   -10   -145  -106   22    -87n   -M    -88    -84   -2M
1. NetCredit f*m t&I        2t          -7    184       18    a6  -151        6      3      2    46   -6
2. Other 11.1in. Che#p            t      84  -83    -136  -1n        m7    -8S    470   -8W    -2"   -25
[- i.dleto lesraej
Share of GOP (evrreft Uto)
1. Resere gol                   -18.0  -10.0  -8.0  -9.8  -10.4  -0.7    4.0   -.4   4.8   4.0   4.3
2. Total ltere1   PaYMate        -0.0  -0.0  -0.9  -1.0  -0.   -0.9   -O.t  -0.6  -0..  -0.   -0..
8. Cu       aest salesoe        -11.2  -4.2  -5.5  -4.0   4.0   4.7    -4.0  -2.4  -8.0  -8.4  -8.4
4. LT Capital Rflow (11fe  0)   10.0   7.0    7.6   7.6    7.5   7.7    0.9   6.9   6.0   5.7   S.t
S. Neb Creit from tW I            0.2    0.0    0.6    0.1   0.3  -0.7    0.1   0.3   0.0  -0.2  -0.1
GOP (mll Ioss Of  e"re  USS)      2     IS0    17S6_  IStM3  206  1264  230    24  81404 34U0S 
Forelg  &H&"g  ise_ve
1. lnt,l Reeerve (IS l14)         U0S    8      n      678   941
2. Gold (sde rLn"  priles)
8. Croe   eee tnol. cold         S      40 7                  96  M  S WoS eOo 10o   luii   uIp
4. Cr. a. int   etper             1.7    2.2    8.4    8.0   3.4   1.7    8.1   2.3   2.9   8.1   8.8
1. Nam. Off. X4st  (VS ph)   16.43 20.06 80.18  81.24  82.14  82.98
2. Real Eff. X41_a Bse     0  160.00 107.88  66.66  67.20  98.14  t7.9#
8. Xkat for 60 Casseroe



-40 -                                  Scledule B
SECND INID 18TUAL STR AD IhhT CEDIT
Tlaetable of Ka  PtoC.sion   EPet
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Credits 39 mth.
(b)  Staff Mbero Inolved in          Mr. Charles Draper - T"k M.nagerW
Credit Preparatio:t             Mr. Sh_asuddin Abmad
Mr. Syad Altd
Mr. Abid asan
Mr. Pradeep Iltra
Mr. Peter Nichola
Mr. Nadaraja Rmcada
Mr. Christopher Willoughby
(e)  Identification Mission$         November 4, 1988
(d) Appraisal Missionst              March 22 - April 7, 1991 (first)
Febrary 20- March 5, 1992 (last)
May 11-22, 1992 (post-appraisal)
(e)  Negotiations:                   June 6-8, 1992
(f)  Planned Date of Effectivress: January 15, 1993
(a)  Relevant ORD Report.s           Banlade.shi Revew of the Experlence with
Policy Reform In the 1980, June 29,
1990; ORD Report No. 8874.
W    Mr. Thsa  Mowell we Task Manager Ix 1988-1990.



DURaLTm tGTADJlM CREDIT n                                                                  Page 1 of 8
,MATFX OF OC   :
POUCY OIUCTm                                RECWdT MEASURE TAKEN                                         FURTHE ACTONS UN=DE CREDIT                       TOM"
COMPONDER3NTI:                              Comaitment in principte to efficient industry, export        Pubtlc *nounceme et of madifu ter goal          Effh:vwness
IMPOR  REGULATION &TAXATIO0                 acceteration and liberaltzed tariffsf  In Industrial         of trade reform: effective protection
Policf  1991.                                                reduced to low levels prewailing in
Lieralzatlem and re0onelzaton of the        60  poliye to remove anti-export bias in trade regime        internationally competitive developing
npeut regimeto renoe conatids nd            over 5 yrs stated in Fr93 Budget speech; agreement           countries (through inclusion in NTC
dftxoted hicemdves and acikete trade        that thfs ifplies effective protection reduced to Low        policy guidelines)
end effcldt pduaduton.                      levels prevailing in internationelly competitive
developing countries.
A.   sEt CXfnn                              Rtplacement of positive tist with negative & rest-           Implementation (IPOMOTS publication and         EPfctvnes
ricted lists in 1985, covering mwn  of the ORs in the        pbflic amrouncement) of the removal of:
Removal of prohibitions and adfin-          IPO by 4-digit code.                                         a) all but agreed CL iten,
fstrative restrictions and requfre-        These lists corbined as the Control List in 1989.             b) all but agreed, codified IPO text
sent other than reasonable controls         No objection certificatn introduced but removed 1991.           iteam,
for nan-trade reasons.                      Phased reductions, leaving 193 HS-4 codes on CL plus         c) passbooks.
about 130 groups of other IPO restrictions In IPO text    d) Import functions of CCIE not needed
in June 1992.                                                   for retained 6Rs, and
Controls on pharmaceutical imputs/packaging reviewed.        e) permit activities of sector Ninistries
60B agreement to abolish ost CL code items & IPO text           with consequent restructuring of CCIE/
provisions including passbooks & other procedures not           301/other agencfes' functions.
needed for the retained controls, i.e.:
a) 39 of present codes inctuding pharmaceutioal input        Removal of remaining controls apart from        Se mn tnch
& textfle item  & controls for trade reasons trans-    agreed non-trade requirements.
ferred from IPO text, retained for FY93 only,
b) 54 of present codes for non-trade reasons, and
c) other reasonable PS inspection/quarantine
reqrmts codified on CL (tnsfd from text).



Schedule C
Page 2 o 8
POUCY OUJECtIVES                          REC          MEASURES TA l                          FURTHERt ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                          TMIN
. TO                                       [SC-supported rationalization dring 1988-90       lplementation (by 0TS pubtication) of agreed           EaDve
but msximm castm  duty (CD) rate ir fns            LCA/permit fee & AIT chnes plus following
Coquesion wd reduction of rates            150X  with 200-3503 for 12 wtuwry prod-groups;     CD rate changess
and sifptification of Instruments in       devetopment sureharge (8X) & regutatory dwty       a) apart from 4 agreed prod-oroups, all now
the protective elements of iqiort         replaced by 10X increase In most CD rates              above 100X to  t75M  (most) or 100# (aome).
taxation to remove bias a,mng users/      ,elot  100#, and a few exeiptfons/concesuIors       b) about hatf (by CY91 Iqport valu) of now at
importers, Industries, stages and         removed in 1991.                                       100X to 75S or less,
scales of production, and direction       GCB approval of Fr93 steps towards and FM9          c) about ene-quarter (by C791 import valu)
of sales.                                 rules for rationalizing CD/LF/AIT schedules:           of now above SO to below 50S, including
a) CD as the only protective Instrument In            significant inputs to a) & b),
Import taxatfon (VAT/SO trade-neutral);        d) all now below 7.5X to 7.5 or 153 except
b) no user-defined CD rates;                          some agreed Items at zero,
c) eight CD levels: 0, 7.5, 15, 30, 45, 60,        e) consolidation to eliminate distinctions
75 & perhaps 1003, with                            between users (all) & between similar
* zero for specified non-trade reasons,            products within HS-4 hdgs (Cost).
* T.S for specified primry inputs,
* 15 M0/65 for most raw/semi/final goods,       Implementation (by OTS publication) of:                Second trwnche
* 60/751?100 uwder NTC agreements,              a) dat CD mxim  -
(some FY93 exceptions: see Effeativenes);          * 75X for UTC-approved, time-bouWd indus-
d) LCA/permit fee applied as temporary rev-             try adjustment progrms (perhaps 1003 In
anus masure In FY93;                                 a few agreed cases),
e) Advance Inoome tax applied to all taxpay-          * 50S  for other Imports (acceptable reven-
er fmporters.                                        ue considerations permtting),
b) other CD adjustments needed to mnke effec-
tive protection moderate for most activit-
ies, any exceptions being explicitly on
the basis of hTC recowmendatfons,
c) eLimInatton of LF.



Schedule C
Page 3 o-f 8
POUCYOJEIVE S                              RECENT MEASURES TAKE                               FURTHER ACTIONS UDR CREDIT                             TIM
C.  Vbnouuw la m                          VAT legislated & executed in 1991 to replace       tupletentatfon (by OTS psbitcatfon) of trade            5feovaes
Icport sales tax (ST) 8 dhnesttc end se duty      neutrality for levies other than CD/LF/AlT
Development of conaaqwption taxation      (ED) but imposed only on imports of textfles        with satisfactory schedules for VAT, ED (for
to replace revense-justiffed elements    & some other domaestic products exempt; s&Wp-       VAT-exempt domestic textiles) and SED.
of protection tax instrtents, and         lementary excise (SED) on a few products.
removal of protectfve elements in the    G00  oppreoval of:                                   Imptementation (COTS) of:                              Second tranch
consuipton tax instrteants.               a) rules for $ED at several rates on signif-       a) Imposition of trade neutral taxatfon of
fcant rang  of final goods to help offset          textiles;
possible revenue loss from CD decreases;        b) Revised SED schedule to accam odate CD
b) plans for trade-neutrality for textiles            reduction from 75/100/>100  to 45/60/ThU.
(partial in FM93).
D. PT2  dmuntd  n                         1. Progrsm developed for computerizing cust-       1. Satisfactory NOR arrangements operational            Effeclmovs
ams entry; historic date coWpiled for FY91         for reconciling assessment/receipts data, re-
Removal of delays and discretion in       (o3n) and CY91 (33R); daily computing fully        solving discrepancies, and training MR staff
customs clearnce, and equitable           operational In mafn Customn  houses by 19M9;       therein.
enforcement of prescribed taxes on         FY93 revenue changes projected on basis of        2. Satisfactory procednres    ao atfan of               ftO":*en
ioports.                                  CT91 iwport transaction database;  IDA-fin-        2.lSatary P roced uec
anced edvisor mobilifed in M33 to coordinate      voluatary PSI sch .
collection data activities.                        3. Puflication of FY93 OtS.                            EffetIvens
2. Preparations made in 1990 for appointing        1. Satisfactory reconciliation of 12 months'           Seoo    t
pre-shipment inspection/assessment (PSIA)          import data.
agents; voluntary PSI initiated in 1992 nd         2. Satisfactory operation of PSIA scheme v/:           Second tranch
instituted on trial basis wfth provision for
tDA/'oGa  review,                                 a) prequalification & contractual arrange-
tWON  review.                          ~~~~~~~ments with GOB,
b) agents' valuation prevailing over tariff
3. Operative Tariff Schedule (OTS) initiated;         values and
FM9  scedulWe prepared (but not published);        c) certificates including duty/tax assessmts
draft FY93 schedule predared (sae revisions        (puant to formal GOB/tDA review of volunt-
to tow)n                                          ary PSI scheme conducted by Noveober 1992 to
determine nred for such improvements).
3. Publication of FY94 OtS.                            Secon  tranh



Schedule C
Page 4 of 8
POuCY OBCTIVE                            RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                            FUTHER ACTIO S UDER CREDIT                           ToMn
EL 5. t1Mn ArAhS                        Effective protectfin studios unit supported       1. ArAminicomnt of fitended UTC reform (In          EohoIe40mn
by 1984-8  IDA-f intoced Trode & industry        advance of toglslation).
DBentRopigt of pbtiC capacity to         Policy Studies prolect; retained In Umgla-
masuro, to _sO, and to proVide           desh Tarwff Comndslosn thru FY92 but without     2. Coimuncemmat of WtC operations with:                   _
apropriat m   Intended levls an          adeqmate aepertise.                              e satlsfactory poicy guidetine within or
pattn of Indtry aistnce.                Deeision In principte takn In 199  to estb-          apr   purAnt Its leslation,
sh mor automous, bwtt  safed Eattlonl    b) appo    & satisfsctory opeatigr proced
Twriff Comissfon  PCTO; tA TA-V fwded ad-           ure, orgizatlon, staffing, bumget & TA
vsrowy service & study tour to hetp forsulste       reqmure_  ts and work program6
poticy guidelines & organiation structure;       c) assisgemnt of staff & mobiltiation of TA.
Cabinet Eapproval with meudwmt of ceft
legislation in PAy 1992.                          atisfatory opeatifon dof TC and comptttion
of FM95 studHsthearilnrslreports on:                       troche
a) ndustries most affected byt    tariff
rationalization,
b) fsensltlveR fqiorts now subJect to OR,
c) others agreed n settin the FM93 work
progr^ a nd
d) fIrst auwial report with general protect-
ion revIew.



Schedule C
Page 5 of 8
POUCY OJECTIVES                         RECENT MEAURES TAtEN                                   FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                TIMING
WWT -
NIaphumu-t of pal  and   s    a                                                                iaptemmntwtm of agroee 3     wfac pton plan  We .i,
oei1stva11 I an t  -   by eadve                                                               ad TA reqirements for P193-94 imct:
PUMPo    -                                                                                     a) establfisheet of Cabinet Ctt, Expert
Coaisl, Exot Assistance Famd
P. gmS  ftattff strenthening       ITC & UASID aistance for EF                                 b) EPS strengthening;
an othw export servie mgenies; EPIOC preprat-  e ) stisfactory conete" steps to relax
Provisfon of an integrae  strtegic      fen of strtey with IDA  sfstte.                           reglatory viwumnt. possbly Inl-
frtmuk for lqarovi  ad asssing           n adoption an pble announcement of compre ensve          uding ban on re-pert & cigmt
policy intlwntione and pubtic serv-      alnadesh Export eIcopeant Strateg  192-2000.             sales (subject to r"eio.
ieo  affectin   port dq_t. 
Satisfatoy   le tion of further 
8mre wuor MS.
1. Dt       .- Strenhning of 000 office &               atifctor operation of ioprown                     m
M vl of the effects an eport            stff for impoveent of  D schemes; StD expert &          XPm         sc
Prodtlion costs of fisoa                edpment mblIted to help coupterization, proced-
Instriment  inteded to protect         ures; ceordinmtion of DD an VAT rdete procere.          1. Contind expanifen & satisfctory        tr         h
deImetic wkt  prodction or tax          PaMlc      _ MiAment & satisfctory opation of 00       operatin of OD sems includirg
dbmestic consuitlon.                    sdmes with:                                            extensmin of flat rate coveage by SO a
a) Oftats DD rates set for 335 products,               month or other satisfactory nobwer.
b) max. processing time reduced to 5 days for flat & 4    2. Conrne   ensfon & satsf stwy          Secon   t
weeks for actual rate appLicants.                   operation of the S schede, including
pro-rating machineryfspares duty suspen-
2. Secal banded warehouse facilities extended to 2     pron for non-100X exporters.
non-sarment firms on trial basis.
Approval end public awouncement of arrangements for
SW ewprovement/expension to any industry by allowing:
a) non-back-to-back L/C credit arrangements,
b) advance f port of one-third of the greater of last
or next annual requ irnents,
c) duty suspension on machinery & spares (1OOK export-
ers FY93) wfout inwolvemt of 'sponsoring' agencies,
d) relaxatn of 30K VA requirent for high-value items.



Schedule C
Page 6 of 8
POUCY OBJECTIVES                          RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                               FURTHER ACTIONS UNDEtR CREDIT                          TIMING
COMPONENT Ii:                              Internatina(/local experts mobilized for
PRIVATE SECTOR DVELCOPMENfT               Nnistry of Industries (NOI) studies to:
a) Identify leal, regulatory and procedural        Formulatfon of action progras  for further             Effeedvness
Rhplca.ment of poaly and procedura           obstacles to Industry (other than invest-        reforms In FM93 (in aklition to thnse noted
crstrahts on PSD by hs acive po-             ment, faport & export contro(s covered           below) anw in early F94, based on inter-
,  a -in wth  a codndcive egal, rqg-          below & in import & export components);         agency review of Nol studies' findings.
daw,y and Incentives *f wwsot.            b) review of efficiency of fiscal, fInanIcal
incentives for export, location, smil
fndustries, etc.;
c) rwevi plans for SOt reorganization.
08 approval and publie anraonement of soe
aspects of program.
H. hwootment Cotmd                         In 1990, self- & private bank-funded projects      1. Revision of IP-91, including:                       Effeednnass
deregulated, and sanction ceiling for DFls A       a) elimfnatn of SOIIXSCIC/1E1Z oversight of
Withdrawal of public monopoly and          1C1s raised to Tk 100 & 60 million Including          DFI/NCS-funded projects & of all approv-
fntervention in private investment        up to 49X foreign equity projects.                    als, allocations, etc. other than for the
decisions othet than reasonable            Industrfal Poliey 1991 raised OFI/[CS celIng          purpose of delivering Incentives/services
regulation for social/environental        up to Tk 300 an, prodsed equal treatmunt for           through SOI/BSCIC/SEPZA;
protection.                                foreign inwestment, set time limits for DFI/       b) eliminatfon of requirement for approval of
NCB/9OI/SSCIC/SEPZA approvals, replaced the           * production capacity changes, and
indicative/priority/discouraged investment            * machinery fiports;
schedules by 7 groups of industries reserved       c) curtailment of reserved list to allow prm-
for public investment plus provision for              vate investment in power & telecom. (other
regulated industries.                                 industries to be considered)
Elimination of requirements for public list-       with public announcement thereof.
ing of firms with over Tk 10 an paid-up
capital and for approval of public limited         2. Commencement of study on scope and ifmple-          Effectiveness
companies' chief executive saLary rates.           mentation of industrial regulation reltting
008 approval of changes to be made in              to environewnt & safety.
Industrial Policy to remove project & other
approval requirements.                             Satisfactory iqplementatn of further reforms           Second tranche
including those based on study of industrial
regulation & review of reserved industries.



Schedule C
Page 7 of 8
POUCY OBJECTIVES                            RECMNT MEASURES TAKEN                               FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                            TlIMIN
1. Exct"WSIDennxis                          1. Return to flexible management in 1991            1. Flexible management of the exchange rate              Effedvoenwss
aimed at maintaining real effective rate            to altow the exchange rate to help, in part,
Liberalizatfon of the exchange policy       (REER) at Its November 1988 levet.                  protect productn during tariff rationaltzatn.
reime to proote domestic production
and facilitate International business    2. Removal of requirement for approval of              2. Satisfactory impletentation of                        Effeotvones
transactions.                               transactions falling within trwnsparent 331         a) the recently announced relaxation and
BOI guideltnes for                                     streamlining of exchange controls; and
a) remittanee of dividends and capital gains;       b) automatic access to foreign exchange for
b) local borrofing of wodit caspft  by                 domestic firms' foreign training & con-
foreign-invested firms;                             ultancy expenses
c) remittances of salary (50X) and pension          under satisfactory guidelines.
contributions.
Anouncement of similar Liberalization for:
d) contracting, servicing & repot of supplier       t. Conti d  satisfactory operation of flex-              Ssdrche
credit & other foreign borrowing;                1.  cn ad  atfsfacto
a) agreements & fee remittance for technology       ibLe exchane managment.
transfer;                                        2. SUtisfactory implementation of further                second trlne
f) local borrowing of tem fn mo  by                 relaxation of exchange controls.
foreign-invested firms;
g) remittance of savings on expatriate
oployeest dperture; and
h ) beck-to-back U/Cs agarnst export L/Cs.
Amnn cement of withholding tax for dfvidend
& capital gain remittance.
Annoxncement of 10X export proceeds retention
allowance (5S for garmentt).



Schedule C
Page 8 of 8
POLICY OBJECTIVES                         RCENRT MEASURES TAKEN                               FURTHEt ACTIONS UMbNR CREDIT                           TIMING
J. Load Refn                                                                                  1. Satisfawtory arrangements for                       EffeOevw
a) estabishat of Judicial traing institute;
Preision of an apprqpxiate leal           Study an regulatory erwironment comissioned        b) strengthening the tleal drafting staff In
framewk for modemn private enter-         by NOI revealed need for urent attentlon to           Ninistry of Law and Justfee.
prfseo.                                    Law & lea procedurs affecting business.           2. Completion of a revie, and formulation S             Effecvnemss
announcement of a satisfactory progrm of
reform of business Law, Leal institutfons,
and lepal and awninistrative procedures.
Satisfactory iplementation of Initial                  Second t
reforms.
K.  kwestent    _   sw                    Commitment under PRNAC to review direct tax        Commencement of study to prepar. chans  in              Effeivweorm   co
structure, but wIthbst urgent attentfon to         the ftscal regsime affecting commerce and
Rationalization of the corporate tax       incentives for business and Industry; study        industry with respect to corporate tax rates,
regime to promote private investent       on incntives commssioned by Not.                   hoidays, altowances and deductions, as welt
in productive activities.                                                                    as adefnistratlon, tiability and appeat.
Satisfactory Smplementation of initial fiscal          Second tranche
reform.
L  ktvsbtentPianKyon                      FIAS proposals an B01 structure/operations          1. Formulation of action plan folLowing                Effectveness
and UIDP/FIAS TA endorsed by DoI in 1990;          review of Task Force report.
ldentiftlcation and rapid removal of      revised proposals sought in 1991 by Industry       2. Implementation of approved B01 reorganfz-            Effectveness
constraints on end disincentives for      Secretary; new FIAS report prepared.                ation under new mndate, appointment of quat-
domestic and foreign investment.          01 relocated in PN*s office with upgraded          if led Board wnibers, substantial restaffing
ExPr fve Cen sirne                                 of secretariat, and mobilization of TA.
Estabtishment of pubtlc/private taskforce          Satisfactory progress in B01 operations and             secn  tranh
with broad scope to form proposals on inv          other agreed mehanism to promo and
estment promotion.                                 facilitate foreign and domestic investment in
all sectors of the econoay.



- 49 -                                       Schedule 0
Pag. 1 of 2
rtE STATS O SAN  UUI  OPERATION  IN BANGUPIS
A. STAMOff    S BANK LOANS AND IDA CR5_
(As of June 80, 1002)
munt In USS mli ton
(les  cancellatlons)
Credit NO.         FT    Borrowe                  Purpose                 Sak         IDA    Undleurse
2 Loans and 128 Credits have bee  fully dburse                            56.9    3111.2
of which 11 SECALs, SAL. and Program Creits o)                                    1061.8
Cr. 1247-4O     1962    Sangladeh    Chittagong Port                                46.7           21.6
Cr. 1440-BD     1964    Bangladesh   Technical Asslstance V                         26.0           14.8
Cr. 1466-UD     1964    Bangladeh    Agricultural Research It                       17.2            8.4
Cr. 1467-DO    1904     Bangladesh  SaS Small Sch$e                                 41.5           22.0
Cr. 1460-BD     1064    Bangiaodeh    Technical Education                           81.6            6.1
Cr. 168040     106      Sangladesh   Second Goa Development                        110.0           47.4
Cr. 151-40     1065    Bangladesh    Flood Control A Drlnage III                    46.0           28.5
Cr. 1683-80     1066    DBaladdsh   Rural Electriftcation II                        70.0           46.4
Cr. 1634-0      1906     Bn41ladesh   Forstry It                                    28.9            7.9
Cr. 1048-DO    1908     Bangladesh    Power Transmission A Diet                     t6.0           17.9
Cr. 1049-SO     196     Bangladesh    Populatlon III                                78.0             1.4
Cr. 1061-40     10S6    Bangladesh   Shrimp Culture                                 22.0           18.2
Cr. 178440      10t6    Bangladoes    Dhaka WASA II                                 80.0           12.2
Cr. 174940      1907    Bangladesh   Refinery  odificlation A LPG                   47.0           29.9
Cr. 1784-0      1907    Bangladesh   Flood Control A Drainago IV                    20.0           15.0
Cr. 1827-0      1067    Bangladesh    Road Rehab A Maintenance                     102.0           66.1
Cr. 1670-8D     18S    Bagladeh    So Sc FCD A Irrigation U1                        61.8           80.6
Cr. 190-40      1908    Bangladesh   Urban Dewelopment I                            47.6           44.5
Cr. 1940-80     1986     bongladebh    Rural Roads & Market                         62.8           89.1
Cr. 2000-0D    1909    Bangladesh   Export Dve lopment                              26.0           28.2
Cr. 201640    109    Bangladesh   Power Dlstributton (10 Towns)                    67.0           75.8
Cr. 2046-4      189    Bangladesh    Flood Rehabilitation III                      188.0           46.8
Cr. 2099-8D     1900    Bangladesh  SWB System Rehab                                 $8.9          52.0
Cr. 2116-80     1990    Bangladesh    Generl Educatton                             169.8          188.8
Cr. 21294-      1090    Bangladesh   Rural Electrification 2II                     105.0          118.5
Cr. 2146-60     1900    Bsangladesh    Fisheries III                                44.0           46.7
oCr. 2162-6      1900    Bangladesh   Flnancial Sector Adjust. Credit               176.0          106.2
oCr. 2152-SB     1992    Bangladesh    Financial Sector Adjust. Credit                2.9            8.1
Cr. 2232-80     1991    Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport                         46.0           44.0
Cr. 2233-8D     1991    Bangladesh   Agorc. Support Service                         85.0           88.8
Cr. 2246-0      1991    Bangladesh   National minor Irrigation                      54.0           61.7
Cr. 2258-80     1991    Bangladesh   Shallow Tubowells                              75.0           07.2
Cr. 2259-40     1991    Bangladesh   Population and Health IV                      160.0          17.6
Cr. 2268-0 b>  1991     Bangladesh   LPG Distribution                               67.2           71.0
Cr. 2340-L'D b) 1992    Bangladesh   Private Sector Ind. Credit                     25.6           26.1
Cr. 2861-Bl     1992    Bangladesh   Public Resource Management                    150.0          155.8
Cr. 2390-ED S) 1992      Bangladesh   Technical Assistance VI                       25.0           26.1
Cr. 2897-0 b) 1902    Bangladesh   Foret Reources  abnagemnt                        49.0           51.9
Total                                                    56.9    5678.2 c>       171.7 c>
of which has been repad                                 16.8      68.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           41.5    5490.1
Amount sold        0.4
Of which rpald    0.4             Total Undisbursed                              1771.7
a> Approved durin or after FY60.
b> Not yet effecttve.
ci  The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown In US Dollar equivalent l t date of negotiations,
as shown tn the PresIdent's Report. Undtobursed aounts shown In US Dollar equivalent are valued
at tho exchango rate applicable on the date of this statement. tn oooe case therefore, the
undisbursed balance Indicates a dollar amount greater than the origliol principel credit
amount expressed In dollars.
o  SAL, SECAL or Program Loan.



g b  ^ n  ;      1 BI~     fSI            *
i ~ ~ ~~ 8        ..  .     U.. s|s     
a                                              S
R~~~ g,I,;i.



Schedule E
jPae I of 12
No.MF/ERD/IDA-ll3S/88                             Juno S. 1992.
DeaO Mr.Prestou.
Stoct-       oSto Adnommin Credit
Streeiieeet of Tr    and Rsialntga Polocr
Ths 00AMOSt of Sagaa  asssned office wrkb a clear mandate
tO acOsleats the couatry's eccoomic and socla deveopment through
rsenewe reatie  on a system of free entsptise that shoul raelsas the
enegies of both smaill  an   e eattopseur in the Nation's Interest. It
is anticpted that priaste fo       tment and the official coopetatioa
of the international communty. including the World Bank Group, should
play importat rle l this endeavor. Tbis applies in many fields. not least
the indutia development whic  mut be a crtical souce of employment
and growt. The purpose of this ette  is to request the Association's
prov    of a seonad Idstal Seor Adjustmeat Credit that would
proide balance of payments support- while faciUtating our efforts to
reform policies and procedure that have hampered the contribution of
ptivate enterpdse to the       Isation proces.
2.   Ia requesng   Credit asociated with trade policy and regulatory
reforms, we are seedig the Asocaton's contiued invlvement in these
critical policy ares Out prrm  in this teard is among several sets of
aprOa8hs forming what we believe to be am  effectie stabiU2atioa-um-
grotht  strat. Toethe  they  should  stimulate  and  facUitate  the
restructuang  and expafdon of potentially efficient existing indusl
capacty  and  the  develpmt of new  Iutlal activities that wil
effectively utls  the countrs human and other resources. The reforms
that are outlnd  In this letter will complement similatry ambitious
programmes for mdatdaing appoprate fisal and motry poUles for
strengtheningand lIbeaIing the finani  sector, and for rationalIzing and
reducng dickt Gorment nvolmient in producta an  commerce.
3.     In the  poposd trorm  of trade policy, the Goverment is
consolIdatn  and exteandn  the proces of liberalization which has already
yielded a les  restictive trdtig e_vionment In Bangladeh than in some
ContdLJ/2.



- 52 -                     Schedule E
Paoe 2 of 12
-2-
other countries at a similar stage of development. Further, liberalization of
imports and exports to rationalize production incentives will be
accompanied by radical reductions in other types of constraint on private
investment and production. This reflects the Government's promotional
rather than regulatory stance towards private sector development, including
the provision of an attractive climate for foreign involvement in our
economy. Many of the .specific measures that we plan to implement in
these respects are heralded in the new Industrial Policy announced last
year. while others are being formulated in accordance with principles and
goals discussed below.
4.   The proposed policy reform  programme for which IDA's support is
being sought comprises actions in three areas...import regulation and
taxation, export development. and private sector development---organized
into a two-year action plan. The import liberalization measures include the
commencement of phased tariff reforms scheduled- to continue over an
additional three years for which further IDA support may be requested.
These will leave active exchange rate management, already an important
tool for maintaining macroeconomic stability, as the most significant trade
policy tool for ensuring the external competitiveness of tndustries and othet
economic activities by 1997. The other elements of the liberaltzatiion will
be completed more promptly, with actions scheduled for the beginning of
FY93 and FY94. This applies also to the export promotion measures to
reinforce the import and exchange liberalization, as w4lk as to the actions
which more generally cover investment promotion, investment and exchange
control, fiscal incentives, and legal system reform to facilitate private
industrial development.
L  IMORT RUGUTn  AND TAXATION
Import controls
5.   The import liberalization will occur, first, by completing the process
of phaing out quantitative restrictions on imports and otherwise
streamlining import procedures. initiated under the first industrial Sector
Credit. AUl but 93 of the items/entries now on the Control List witl be
freed for FY93, along with the removal of most restrictions described in
the text of the Import Policy Order pertaining to non-CL Items. Among the
latter are the pre_et provisions pertaining to the use of local agents,
import permits(except for CL items) and opening L/Cs and foreign-invested



- 53 -
Sehedule E
Page 3 of 12
-3-
firms' production capacity. As regards importation of second-hand and job
lot goods, a decision on withdrawal of restrictions on such goods wlU be
taken on the basis of recommendations of the Tariff Commission. Since
direct controls will no longer be used to defend the balance of payments
or protect domestic industry (with the exception of just 39 products for
which decontrol will be delayed by one year), we will dispense with import
passbooks and entitlements (except for CL items), and all similar
procedures and levies that have been associated with them, other than
offshore inspection and assessment. From the begianing of FY94, the only
controls remaining will be those applicable to a short list of highly
senstive items and those that are required for the non-trade reasons of
public  safety,  security,  health,  religion,  environment  and  social
considerations.
Tariff reform
6.   Efficient industrializfton will be facilitated through rationalizing the
tariff structure to ensure the more neutral treatment for export production
and import substitution that is consistent with the country's comparativ
advantage. Industries serving the domestic market will continue to receive
some assistance from tariffs. but their levels will become moderate and
otherwise designed to avoid large differences in effective protection across
existing and potential domestic production. Exceptions to this will be few
and temporary, in order to minimize their adverse impact on consumers and
on other production activities which do not receive such protection. Among
the latter are export industries that must become a major contributor to
industrial development and employment generation while competing at world
prices, and other industrial activities that could operate efficiently and
significantly enhance industrial added value if they have access to
reasonably priced domestic inputs. Our medium term objective is to remove
anti-export bias in the structure of effective protection through a series of
annual adjustments to compress and reduce the tariff schedule. To keep
the process moving and give a clear signal to investors on its outcome, the
medium term program includes the target of having effective protectlon
reduced progressively to reach low levels.
7.  Initial steps towards tariff rationalization have been taken already in
th abolition of development surcharge and regulatory duty, the replacement
of separate import sales tax and domestic excise by trade neutral value



54 -                    Schedule E
Page 4 of 12
-4 -
added tax (VAT) and supplementary duty (SED). For FY93. the Government
will complete the process of reducing the maximum customs duty rate to
100 percent with the exception of four product groupS. In addition, about
half of the imports now rated at 100 percent will attract rates of 75
percent or lower, and the rates on items of considerable import value will
be reduced from 75 or 60 percent to 45 percent. These reductions together
will mean that about one-quarter of the imports now rated above 50
percent will come below that level. At the same time, most concessions
and exemptions will be replaced by moderate rates applicable to all
importers mainly 7.5 or 15 percent. and other adjustments will be made to
rationalize the distribution of most imports among the 15, 30. 45 and 60
percent rates. The process will continue in FY94, when the remaining
inconsistencies among the treatment of industries and comparable
production stages will be removed, including any concessions and
exemptions not removed already. At the upper end of the schedule. use of
the 75 percent rates (and if applicable 100%) will be limited to the
provision of temporary protection under time-bound enterprise or subsector
adjustment programs. Ovet the subsequent three years the maximum rate
will be further reduced and the structure further rationalized so as to
achieve the above-mentioned 1997 taqet.
industrr assistance
8.  Enterprise or subsector adjustment programs under which higher than
the normal maximum  protection may be aUowed on a temporary bads.
would be designed to induce and enable the activities to operate witb low
levels of effective protection within three or four years consistent with
removal of anti-export bias. They will have to be sanctioaed by the new
National Tariff Commission(NTC). which will commence operations at ths
beginnig of FY93 under a forthcoming  Ordioance. This insdtutional
mechanism will help accelerate the tariff reform while avoiding sudden
withdrawal of assistace for those induates which. have been shielded from
foreign competition by high tariffs or non-tariff controls on competing
imports but which could adjust to the new environment if provided with
temporary tariff protection above 50 percent as they begin to adjust To
ensure that the Government is provided with impartal and technicaUy should
advice in this regard. we have gien the NTC a broad compass of factors
to consider in formulatinsg Its opinons, and we are acceptig the



Schedule E
Pase 5 of 12
Association's assistance in 8trengthonlng its technical capability. As well as
helping define the FY94 tariff changes under ISAC-2, the NTC wiU
faciltate furthet cuts during FY95-97 to rationalize effective protection
and remove the burden "sick" enterprises now impose on the Budget.
coasumers, exporters and/or other producers.
Other Imoort taxes
9.   As noted above, customs duty is becoming the only instrument to
supplement protection provided by the exchange rate. Other import taxation
is already trade neutral to a large extent. The Government proposes to
complete the process for FY94. The fee for license permits or L/C
authorizations, which we are retaining in FY93 as a temporary revenue
measure, wil be eliminated in F194. provided a satisfactory mechanism for
achieving revenue neutrality can be worked out.Another temporary measure
in FY93 will be the reimposition of excise duty on textile and yarn
domestic products to complement the VAT which now applies only on
imports. We are currently reviewing a study on the restructuring of the
textle subsector. and wiU reform the tax structure affecting the subsector
in FY94 in a trade neutral manner. including the imposition of VAT equally
on imports and domestic products if possible. For all other goods subject
to VAT, the flat rate of 15 percent is charged already on the duty-
inclusive value of imports and the ex-factory value of domestic products
alike, fully creditable at subsequent production stages and for export sales.
To help maintain revenue in the face of tariff reform, however, the VAT is
supplemented by the other trade-neutral instrument. SED, imposed at a
few rates on an increasiag range of non-essential final goods.
Import ,rocedures
10.   The tariff reform is bing supported jointly by the removl of most
of the import control admInIstration noted above and the strengthening of
import tax assessment and collection mecbanisms to ensure both prompt
clearance of goods and the use of publisbed operative tariff rates for all
imports other than under international agreements or to implement duty
relief for export production. Three key elements of the procedural
innovations to make the liberalization effective are: the pubUcation from
FY93 of consoadated schedules of current Import duties and taxes; the
forthcoming evution of the customs information system(ClS. established
with the Association's asdstaace in FY92) into a fulUy automated system



- 56 -                 Schedule E
Page 6 of 12
--
of customs data(ASYCUDA. now beiag developed with UNDP assistance):
and. if necesay. the fuU  Implementation  witbin FY93 of offshoe
inasction and assesmeat by ptofessional agents to replace the "tariff
values" now used to prevent under-or over-invoicing. In FY92. we bave
introduced a voluntay sbeme tor pre-Wshipmeat inspectioa and "green
bJDO" clearace on a tria basis; we ptopose to Goaduct a review of this
jointly with IDA within CY02 to examine its effectiveness with a view to
agreeag on improvements. perhaps Including Its replacement by a
co*pulsory scheme operated by agents undei contract to tae government.
EL EXPORT IOMROIION
Esoort stratesv
11.   The Govnment recognizes that the import liberalzation measures
outlined above will improve but not fuUy equate the incentives for export
with those for domestic market production. Therefore our reform program
features the development and implementation of a comprehensive National
Export Development Strategy. 1992-2000 with emphasis on removing
constraint  expanding markets and diversifying the export base.
The first component of the strategy relates to the increased
emphasis being accorded to exporting by creating a new Cabinet
Committee on Exports the purpose of whicb is to facilitate
positive support for exporters throughout the government and to
engage in a regular dialogue with the private sector.
The second component comprises a series of concrete steps to
effect a relxation in the regulatory environment. Many
regulatory and administrative measures curreatly affect private
sector development-as a whole. while some are specific only to
export activties. to this end. we propose, inter alls. to review
the resutctios on re-xports and on "sale-or-returan  export
shipments. and to permit reteation of foreign excanage by
exportem Ioitially five percent of proceeds.
The thitd component focuses on the critical importance of the
trade and exchaage regimes. and in particular the enhanced role
of the exchange rate vis-a-vis import controls and tariffs to
influence impor  In addtion. existiag mechanisms for relievig
Import duty and taxation are to be furter streamlined in order
to ensue world prces for inputs to direct and indirect export
pmducsrs(see below).



- 57 -
Schedule E
Page 7 of 12
-7-
Fourth. more effective institutional arrangements for promoting
exports and foreign investment are being prepared through
restructuring programmes for the Board of Investment and the
Export Promotion Bureau. as well as the encouragement of
enhanced private sector representational arrangements.
Fifth, exporters and potential exporters will be encouraged to
increase the volume of overseas trade through a series of positive
steps to improve product and market development, particularly
through improved export marketing techniques, inward investment
promotion. and backward linkages in strategic industries.
Sixth, positive support wil be accorded to the export community
in the provision of utilities. transport and other government
services
The seventh component recognizes that both the public sector and
the private sector are hindered by a lack of expertise that
reduces their effectiveness in overseas marketing. An extensive
range of short and long-termn training programs are in the course
of preparation to enable both exporters and service suppliers
within the bureaucracy to more effectively avail of the increased
opportunities offered through the export strategy.
World oriced inauts
12. Bangladesh has been trying for some years to implement an effective
regime to relieve export production of duties and taxes on inputs. and the
range of schemes aow ia effect comprises the Chittagong Export Processing
Zone and prospective Dhaka EPZ. special bonded warehouse (SSW) facIlities
duty and tax rebates. and Bangladesh Bank's administration of a 15 percent
cah  compensation  wheme  in  lieu  of drawback  for garment exports.
Important adaces over the past year include the Introduction of creditable
VAT, strengthening of the Duty Exemption and Drawback Office(DEDO) with
an expanded range of "flat rates" to cover 335 products under the drawback
scheme (Including for 112 textile fabric items), and extension of the SBW
facility on a trial basis to some non-garment industries without requiring
back-to-back LIC financing.



- 58 -               Schedule E
P2ge a of 12
13.  For FY93. we wlU streamline DEDO's procedures for handling drawback
applIcations to enable payment within five days for flat rates and one month
for actual rebates. and to implement an efficient link between VAT and duty
rebate. In parallel. further improvements in the SBW facilities are being
implemented to make sany ndusty eligible under any finaacing arrangements.
to allow advance impott of four months' input requiremeats to established
exportets. to relas the requirement for 30 percent value added in the case of
hi  value  garments  uader certain  quota  categories. to  remove  the
iovvementofnsponsoting" ageacies in machinery import, and to exempt duty
oan macbinery and spares. The last will be available for 100% exporters untu
a moaas of pro-rating the exemption for other export-oriented firms is
Introduced in FY94. By then also. appropriate treatment of capital goods and
spares is to be lncorporatd in the flat rate drawback scheme. Other
refinements already under serious coasideration for implementation by FY94
include further expansion of the range of flat rates at the rate of about 50
a month, and mechansms to promote enhanced value added through backward
Unkages to indirect exporters (such as temporary admission arrangements for
fabric weavers and finishers supplying the garment industry).
I. P1ATB 8BCTOR DBVU.OPNBUT
Investment control
14.    I have alluded already to the importance of reducing regulatory
constraints on private enterprise. and to the specific efforts we are making
with respect to the Import and export regimes. In paralel. we are
dismantling government intervention in investment decisions in several ways.
Fiast the Industrial Polcy last year replaced all the investment schedules
with a short list of activities reseved to public enterprise, allowing free
entry l alU other industries subject only to provision for the regulation of
some activitis  Among revisions to be annouaced shortly, we are futther
curtailing the reserve list to allow private investment in the power and
telecommunications sectors. This would leave only airways and railways, arms.
ammunition and defemse equipment and machineries, production of nuclear
energy, security printng and minting, and forestation and extraction of
reserved forest areas resered for publi investment we are initiating icter-
mioistei  discussions to consder further contraction of the reserve list. We
are also commencing a atudy to reviow the scope and implemenaution of
dustal regulations. with a view to lmiting them to essential public poicy
purposes relating  to enforcement: tbis wil be competed in time for
recommwentions to be adopted by the beginnig of FY94. Second. the
Industr   Policy is being revied to eliminate requiremetsu for Board of
Investment approval of private --                  contd..P/9



- 59 _                   Schedule E
Page 9 of 12
-9-
projects with loans from public financial institutions, and for all approvals.
alocations, entitlemeats and registration by "sponsoring" or "patroniningu
agencies other than for the purpose of incentives or services provided through
the 801. BEPZA and BSCIC. Third. we have rescinded the requirement for
companies with capital above Taka 10 million to list their shares on the
Stock Exchange and the requirement for approval of chief executive salaries
for public limited companies in the private sector. We are continuing to
identify regulatory and procedural constraints and will remove them wherever
possible, including a second batch. to be agreed with IDA, by the beginning
of FY94.
Exchante control
15. As indicated. our need to promote export production drives our desire to
phase relatively high protection for domestic market production down as
quickly as possible. in favour of the more neutral protection provided by the
exchange rate. Bangladesh has a good record of exchange rate management
as a tool for stabUization, and we propose to use it more vigorously to help
develop our industrles'external competitiveness. In addition. we intend to
liberalize the exchange control regime in several respects at the beginning of
FY93 as part of our overal program of deregulating private enterprise. Thus
exporters will be able to retain a proportion of gross proceeds in foreign
exchange to facilitate their business activities: we are committed to
increasing the proportion as rapidly as circumstances permit. Transparent
guidelines will be issued for advance approval of suppliers credit and other
foreigo borrowing, for technology transfer agreements, and for expatriate
employment; applications conforming with the guidelines wUll be approved
automaticaUy and procedures will be established for the BOI to deal with
others within one week. Within Bangladesh Bank guidelines, approval is no
longer required for local borrowing of woridag capital by foreign invested
firms. nor for outward remittances to pay expatriate employees' salaries or
annual pension contributions. Thbis applies also to remittance of dividends and
capital gains. for which tax withholding will replace the need to submit
income tax returns. In addition we intend to allow domestic firms automatic
access to foreign exchange for foreign training and consultancy.
Leal envkonment
16.     Another Important way in which we propose to  improve the
enironment for private enterprise to operate efficiently relates to the legal
system affecting commerce and industry. The removal of bureaucratic
Interventions as outlined above has enhanced both the need for and the



- 60 -                   Schedule 9
Pfalze 10 of 12
- 10 -
Government's ability to provide an effective legal framework. We have
initiated action to modernize our company law, further strengthen the
financial loan courts law, and laws governing the securities market and non-
bank financial institutions. With the assistance of FIAS. we are undertaking a
study to identify opportunities for streamlining and modernizing laws, court
procedures  and  judicial  performance  pertaining  to  such  topics  as
incorporation, contract, patents and insolvency. Based on the study's
recommendations. we expect to have a first batch of reforms designed and
implemented within FY93 to facilitate the establishment and exit of firms.
enforcement of contracts, protection of private property etc. We are also
giving consideration to the establishment of a business laws reform
commission to help ensure that the legal system will always keep pace with
the demands placed on it to support the country's economic development.
Fiscal incentives
17.  Another field in which most reforms are proposed for the second year
of the ISAC-2 program is the structure of fiscal incentives. A start has been
made with the curtailment of tax holidays to phase them out by 1995 (five
years sooner than their previous end date), and with other changes outlined in
the statement of development policy which I gave you on March 30 in
connection with the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit. Since
then. we have decided to move more swiftly in rationalizing those parts of
the tax system which affect the structure and performance of commerce and
industry. In addition to the removal of concessionary rates as part of the
tariff reform program mentioned above. and the removal of interest rate
subsidies, we are undertaking a study on fiscal incentives covering the
followirgareas during FY93 to make the direct tax regime more conducive to
efficient private enterprise: standardization and lowering of the corporate
income tax rate; tax holidays; the requirement for exempted income to be
invested in government paper:tax on dividends: tax on income from export
production: use of accelerated depreciation and/or investment allowances: the
deductibility of interest charged but not paid; tightening of tax
administration through improved NBR procedures; liability for directors.
managers and/or auditors responsible for financial statements; use of the
same accounts for tax and lending purposes; and establishment of appeal and
arbitration procedures independent of NBR. Based on recommendations of the
study, we will Initiate necessary actions in the above areas to enable a first
batch of reforms to be agreed between GOB and IDA and implemented by
the beginning of FY94.



- 61 -                Schedule E
Page 11 of 12
- 11 -
Investment promotion
18.  We intend the Board of Investment to become an important instrument
for the promotional stance the Government now has towards the private
sector. To chis end. the BOI has been relocated in the Prime Minister's
Office, the status of its executive chairman has been enhanced, and further
organizational changes are now being made to reflect its new mandate. The
registration of new enterprises will be fully automatic by the beginning of
FY93, with the BOI's sanctioning role completely eliminated. Instead, we are
making it responsible for promoting investment opportunities, for assisting
investors. for helping us identify and remove other impedimeats to efficient
procurement. production and marketing activities, and for recommending
appropriate changes in non-tariff incentives for industrial development through
foreign and domestic investment. The. assistance which the Association and
the  International  Finance  Corporation's  Foreign  Investment  Advisory
Service(FIAS) are providing on the BOI reorganization should facilitate these
developments, particularly through FIAS's execution of the technical
assistance project financed by the United Nations Development Program which
was approved recently. Operational changes will be introduced from the
beginning of FY93. with any necessary legal changes to be made later in the
year. The process is being assisted also by the appointment of a
public/private task force to advise the Prime Minister on broad aspects of
private investment promotion. including but not restricted to the role of the
BOI.
CONCLUSION
Revenue and reserves effects
19.   Since the tariff reform  will be gradual- and wil involve some revenue
increases as well as decreases (i.e. the removal of concessionary rates and
replacement of quantitative restrictions will partly offset reductions in high
customs duty rates, removal of other import levies, and improved relief for
exporters), we do not expect the tariff rationalization to have a significant
adverse effect on public revenue even when taken alone. Moreover, some of
the lost revenue revenue will be replaced by trade-neutral SED to supplement
the basic VAT, and we anticipate a substantial improvement in duty
collection performance as a result of both short and medium term reforms in
border and domestic tax administration. As indicated, a key decision that we
may take in this regard is to expand the present voluntary pre-shipment



- 62 -                Schedule E
Page 12 of 12
- 12 -
inspection scheme by employing professional agents for the offshore
inspection and assessment of duty. This is complemented by computerization
of the Customs Service with the assistance of the Association. Unlted Nations
agencies and other donors.By carefully coordinating these various policy and
institutional reforms we expect them to have a positive net impact on
Government revenue, thus contributing to fiscal stability even as the trade
liberalization is implemented.
20.   Similarly, on the external account, we intend to accompany effective
exchange rate management with continued monetary and fiscal discipline.
This should enable the liberalization to occur even during a period when
increased import demand could precede the expected improvement in export
performance.
Assistance requested
21. In view of the strong commitment of the Government to the reforms
outlined above. and given the close involvement of IDA In the preparation of
each of the program's components, I request the approval of the Secoud
industrial Sector Adjustment Credit in the amount of $ 100 milUlon to assist
in the continued implementation. of the reforms.
Yours sincerely.
( M. Salfur Rahman )
Mr. Lewis Preston,
President
International Development Association,
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washington. D.C.



IBRD 24206
g                                        ~~~~~~BANGLA DESH
omp          UNG                                   MINUES O     25       50        5
5 N~~~~~~~~~ILOMETE O    25   w    75 1Xo
MAJ                                                             S.WAM,    H     t4/mf
rw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S7  i  Sr3
~~~a            ON"           w                                         q    r4E9G  
INDIA                 Fb: 0L)          o#
9 % {l \ o X S g ~~~~~~INDlA
Z.cp~~ ~ ~ ~ -Vs                  -       AYO     B                   . t
f'        - >S                        ,      .'WA         -.   
INIA/ ....X r , '-  '--.''-d   laS
SEPTEMBER 1992



