CREDIT NUMBER 2427 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           9      g           , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2427 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  K'\QVA    QQ (0            , 1992, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated June
18, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's industrial sector (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports and services required during such execution;
and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(a) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Bangladesh Bank" means the bank called the Bangladesh
Bank established by the Borrower's Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972
(President's Order No. 127 of 1972) for the purpose of carrying out
the business of central banking;
(b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower
beginning on July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the
following calendar year;
(e)   "Board of Investment" means the Board of Investment
established under the Investment Board Act, 1989 of the Borrower;
(f)    "First Tranche" means an amount equivalent to SDR
36,100,000 to be made available on or after the Effective Date upon
fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Section 12.01 of the
General Conditions and Section 5.01 of this Agreement; and
(g)   "Second Tranche" means an amount equivalent to SDR
36,100,000 to be made available after disbursement of the First
Tranche upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy two million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 72,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1Z) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semi-annually on each June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2002 and ending June 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's grozs national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower-a economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting   practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such  other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that such   records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has approved and published an operative
tariff schedule for Fiscal Year 1992-93 specifying, inter alia, the
rates of customs duty, value added tax, supplementary excise duty
and fee for import permits and letter of credit authorizations in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   the Borrower has taken steps to apply the system of
advance income taxation to cover all taxpayer-importers;
(c)   the Borrower has revised its Import Policy Order, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, to provide, inter alia, for
(i) abolishing quantitative restrictions on imports of all items
except those acceptable to the Association and has codified such
exempted items; and (ii) streamlining import procedures, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, including eliminating restrictions
relating to the use of local agents, import permits and opening of
letters of credit, system of import passbooks and entitlements with
respect to uncontrolled items, and foreign-invested firm's pro-
duction capacity; and (iii) streamlining the procedures relating to
import of second-hand and job-lot goods and import of pharmaceutical
inputs in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(d)   the Borrower has: (i) adopted an export development
strategy for 1992-2000 satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in implementing such
strategy;


﻿(e)   the Borrower has (i) formulated and publicly announced
a plan of action, including a timetable for implementation,
satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of removing legal,
regulatory and procedural obstacles to industrial development, and
improving the incentives framework for such development; and (ii)
made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in implementing such
plan;
(f)   the Borrower has undertaken and completed a study to
formulate proposals for promotion of domestic and foreign investment
and has prepared a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association,
based on the results of such study;
(g)   the Borrower has: (i) reorganized with a new mandate and
restaffed the Secretariat of the Board of Investment in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) mobilized technical
assistance, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
restructuring the operations of the Board of Investment;
(h)   the Borrower has imposed an excise tax during Fiscal
Year 1992-93 on domestically produced yarn and textile products;
(i)   the Borrower has established and made operational a
system, satisfactory to the Association, for reconciling assessments
and receipts of import taxation and initiated training of staff of
its National Board of Revenue for such purpose;
(j)   the Borrower has: (1) publicly announced a program,
satisfactory to the Association, to establish a reformed National
Tariff Commission; (ii) established such Commission in accordance
with such announcement and has commenced its operations with policy
and operational guidelines, work program, functions, management and
technical staff, and budgetary support satisfactory to the
Association; and (iii) mobilized technical assistance, satisfactory
to the Association, to assist such commission in its operations; and
(iv) publicly announced its medium term trade reform objectives,
including the goal of reducing effective protection to low levels
prevailing in internationally competitive developing countries;
(k)   the Borrower has commenced a study under terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association, on the scope and imple-
mentation of industrial regulations relating to environment and
safety;


﻿-9-
(1)   the Borrower has taken steps, satisfactory to the
Association, for a more !lexible management of the exchange policy
and control regime to assist in the process of deregulation of
private enterprise, including: (i) allowing exporters to retain at
least 5 percent of gross proceeds in foreign exchange to facilitate
their business activities; (ii) issuing guidelines and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, for foreign exchange remittances
related to suppliers' credit and other foreign borrowings, tech-
nology transfer payments, expatriate employees' savings, foreign
training and consultancy expenses, and dividends and capital gains;
and (iii) liberalizing term borrowing by foreign firms from domestic
banks;
(m)   the Borrower has commenced a stridy under terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association, on the incentives
provided by the fiscal regime for development of efficient
enterprises;
(n)   the Borrower has made arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for: (i) strengthening the legal drafting staff in its
Ministry of Law and Justice; and (ii) establishing a judicial
training institute;
(o)   the Borrower has formulated a program of reform of
business law, legal institutions, and legal and administrative
procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(p)   the Borrower has amended its Industrial Policy 1991 in
a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(q)   the Borrower has made operational a scheme for voluntary
pre-shipment inspection and duty assessment of imports; and
(r)   the Borrower has established and made operational an
expanded special bonded warehouse scheme satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or Additional Secretary or any
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD               642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By                      3 U 1c&   \4
thorized Represen ative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B  V1,S Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --          Radioactive and associated
materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿- 13 -
Grou2           Subgroup      Description of Items
718             718.1         Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728             728.43        Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --         Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured by the public sector and
the private sector under contracts costing less than $50,000 equi-
valent and.$15,000 equivalent respectively;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $7,000,000 for petroleum products and private sector imports of
foodstuffs;
(h)   expenditures for foodstuffs procured by the public
sector; and
(i)   expenditures in excess of SDR 9,025,000 out of the First
Tranche and in excess of SDR 9,025,000 out of the Second Tranche for
goods procured by the public sector.


﻿- 14 -
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the pro-
curement of goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 may be
required by the Association to be upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 36,100,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association:
(i)    that the macroeconomic policy framework of the
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of
the Program;
(ii)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
the carrying out of the Program; and
(iii)    that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 16 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and the


﻿- 17 -
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has approved and published an operative tariff
schedule for Fiscal Year 1993-94 specifying, inter alia, the rates
of customs duty, value added tax and supplementary excise duty in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower has eliminated the fee for license permits and
letter of credit authorizations.
3.    The Borrower has abolished quantitative restrictions on
imports of all items and eliminated all import restrictions other
than pre-shipment certification requirements and restrictions based
on non-commercial reasons satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has continued to make progress, satisfactory to
the Association, in implementing the export development strategy
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
5.    The Borrower has continued to make progress, satisfactory to
the Association, in implementing the plan of action for industrial
development referred to in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement.
6.    The Borrower has continued to take steps, satisfactory to the
Association, for a more flexible management of the exchange policy
and control regime.
7.    The Borrower has established and made operational a scheme for
pre-shipment inspection and duty assessment of imports satisfactory
to the Association.
8.    The Borrower has continued to operate the system for recon-
ciling assessments and receipts of import taxation and has
reconciled at least 12 months of import data in a manner satis-
factory to the Association.
9.    The Borrower (a) has completed a review of the tariff and
import liberalization measures introduced and proposed under the
Program and published the findings of such review in the Fiscal Year
1992-1993 report of its National Tariff Commission; and (b) has


﻿- 19 -
published special reports on issues, inter alia, identified in the
Fiscal Year 1992-93 work program of such Commission.
10.   The Borrower has continued to make progress, satisfactory to
the Association, in expanding the operations of the duty drawback
scheme and the special bonded warehouse customs facilities.
11.   The Borrower (a) has continued to operate the reorganized
Board of Investment in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) has made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in imple-
menting the plan of action for investment promotion referred to in
paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
12.   The Borrower has completed a study on the taxation of the
textile subsector and based on a review thereof has adjusted the
taxes affecting the subsector to ensure full trade neutrality.
13.   The Borrower has continued to operate its National Tariff
Commission in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
14.   The  Borrower  has made    progress,  satisfactory  to  the
Association, in carrying out the program of legal reform formulated
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (o) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement.
15.   The Borrower has: (i) completed the study referred to in
paragraph (k) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement; (ii) prepared a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, based on the
results of such study; and (iii) made progress, satisfactory to the
Association, in implementing such plan.
16.   The Borrower has: (i) completed the study referred to in
paragraph (m) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement; (ii) prepared a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, based on the
results of such study; and (iii) made progress, satisfactory to the
Association, in implementing such plan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(b)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which


﻿- 21 -
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3      of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 22 -
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SfCRETARY


