                                               Document of
                                            The WorldBank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                                  ReportNo. 38235-HT




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                           PROGRAMDOCUMENTFOR A PROPOSED
                                  DEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT


                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR15.6MILLION
                                  (US$23 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLICOFHAITI

                                                 FOR AN

                     ECONOMICGOVERNANCEREFORMOPERATIONI1



                                         DECEMBER 12.2006



PovertyReductionandEconomic Management Department(LCSPR)
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit (LCC3C)
Latin America andthe Caribbean (LCR)




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     HAITI GOVERNMENT
                             -              FISCAL  YEAR
                           October 1-September30

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange RateEffective as of 12/12/2006)

                      CurrencyUnit
                         US$l.oo                HG$
                                             HGS38.05

                          WEIGHTSAND MEASURES
                                 Metric System

                    ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AAN       NationalAirport Authority
AAP       Assessment andAction Plan
APN       NationalPortAuthority
CAMEP     Metropolitan Water Authority
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNMP      NationalProcurementCommission
CSCCA
cso       Supreme Audit Institution
          Civil Society Organization
EDH       NationalElectricityCompany
EGRO      Economic Governance ReformOperation
EGTAG     Economic Governance Technical AssistanceGrant
EPCA      EmergencyPost-Conflict Assistance
EU        EuropeanUnion
FER       RoadMaintenanceFund
GDP       Gross DomesticProduct
HIPC      Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
IDB       Inter-American DevelopmentBank
ICF       InterimCooperationFramework
IFC       International FinanceCorporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
PPS       IndependentPowerProducers
I-PRSP    InterimPovertyReductionStrategyPaper
I S N     InterimStrategyNote
JSAN      Joint StaffAdvisory Note
LDP       Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
MDGs      MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MEF       Ministry of EconomyandFinance
PEMFAR    Public ExpenditureManagementandFinancial Accountability Review
PPAs      Power PurchasingAgreements
PRGF      Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
TELECO    TelecommunicationsUtility
ULCC      Anti-Corruption Unit


                       Vice President: Pamela Cax
                    Country Director: Caroline hstey
                      Sector Manager: Mauricio Canizosa
                   TaskTeamLeader: A~~~~~~~~     Bassttni                  1

                                                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                             REPUBLICOFHAITI
                             ECONOMICGOVERNANCEREFORMOPERATIONI1

                                                              TABLEOFCONTENTS



            I INTRODUCTION
             .                          ................................................................................................................             5

            I1 RECENTPOLITICAL AND ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS
               .                                                                                                            ...................................      5

            111 THE P~VAL-ALEXIS GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
               .                                                                                              ...............................................        9
                OverallProgram         .....................................................................................                                        9
                MacroeconomicFramework                     .....................................................................                                   10

            IV .KEYISSUESAND                 PLANNEDREFORMSINECONOMICGOVERNANCE                                                                               ......12
                Public FinancialManagement andPublicProcurement                                             ..................................                     13
                HumanResourceManagementandAnti-CorruptionEfforts                                                       ............................                16
                ImprovingEfficiencyandTransparencyinPublicInfrastructureManagement                                                                            .....18
                Education Sector Governance                   ...................................................................                                  22
                CivilSociety Monitoringof GovernanceReforms                                      ...........................................                       23
                Decentralization.,       ...................................................................................                                       24

            V IDA'S SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENTECONOMIC GOVERNANCE
               .
            PROGRAM        .............................................................................................................................           24
                Linkto the InterimStrategy Note                      ...............................................................                               24
                Complementarity with OtherBankActivities                                  ................................................                         24
                Complementarity with OtherDevelopmentPartnerPrograms                                                      ...........................              25
                LessonsLearnedfromPastAssistance                             .........................................................                             26
                AnalyticalUnderpinnings                ........................................................................                                    27

            VI THE PROPOSEDECONOMICGOVERNANCEREFORMOPERATIONI1
                .                                                                                                                                            .......28
                OperationDescriptionandPolicyareas                              .......................................................                            28

            VI1 OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION
                .                                                                                                                                                  31
                Poverty and SocialImpacts                 ......................................................................
                                                                              ...........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                   31
                ParticipatoryArrangements                   .....................................................................                                  31
                Implementation.MonitoringandEvaluation,.,                                    .............................................                         31


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

FiduciaryAspects. Disbursement and Auditing                     .............................................       33
EnvironmentalAspects           ...........................................................................          34
RisksandRiskMitigation             ........................................................................         34


                                                  TABLES

1 Selected EconomicIndicators                                                                                        6
2 EconomicGovernance Actions andPoliciesImplementedby the Transition
..                                          ..................................................................
Government
3 PriorActions for BoardPresentation and Selected TrancheConditions
.                 ...........................................................................................
                                                                                                        .............29
                                                                                                                     8



                                                 Annexes

1: EconomicGovernance MeasuresImplementedbythe TransitionGovernment 38
2: Letter of Development Policy             .................................................................   ...
                                                                                                                    41
3: ReformMeasures Supportedby EGRO IandEGRO I                                                                      58
4: FundRelationsNote            ...........................................................................
                                                                               .................................
                                                                                                                   61
5: CountryAt a Glance            ...........................................................................        63
6: Key EconomicIndicators                                                                                          66
7: KeyExposure Indicators            .......................................................................
                                      ......................................................................
                                                                                                                    67
8: Timetablefor Key ProcessingEvents                  .......................................................       68




                          Association greatly appreciatesthe close collaboration ofthe Government o f Haiti inthe
        ~~~~~~~~~~




                                                       3

                      GRANTAND PROGRAMSUMMARY


                                       HAITI
             Et 3NORiIlC~                   ~ REFORMOPERATIONI1~
                                                            ~                             ~    ~
Grantee         Republic ofHaiti

[mplementing    MinistryofEconomyandFinance
Agency
Amount          SDR15.6 million (US$23 millioncqui

Tern            IDA grant terms

                Two-hncht operation. The tist tm            1Q millinnequivalent would
                bedisbursedupongrant.effeciilpcness         ngtranchcofti5fl3 million
                equiwient uponcompletionof follow

                       posed apemtian would suppart policy reformsaimed at: (a) promoting




                                    In addition EGRO U



                                                                     ame. Suchmeasures



Risks




                                            4


                   INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A
            PROPOSEDECONOMIC GOVERNANCEREFORMOPERATIONI1
                                 DEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT
                                  TO THE REPUBLICOF HAITI

                                         I.INTRODUCTION

1.  During2004-2006, the Haitian Transitional Governmentmade significant progress
in improving governance and transparency in public sector operations. Economic
governance reforms were aimed at improving the legal framework, creating and strengthening
core public institutions, and enhancing financial management processes and procedures. Key
reforms covered: (i)   budgetformulation, execution and reporting; (ii) procurement; (iii)
                                                                         public
public enterprise management and road maintenance; (iv) human resource management and
anti-corruption efforts; and (v) civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms.
IDA supported Haiti in these efforts by providing policy advice and financial assistance
through an Economic Governance Reform Operation I(EGRO I,of US$61 million) fully
disbursedin 2006, two ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants (EGTAG
Iand11,ofUS$2millioneach)andaLICUSEconomicGovernanceGrant(US$1.5million).
IDA support complemented and was closely coordinated with assistance provided by other
donors, inparticular the IDB, IMF, EU, US and Canada.

2.  The new Government formed in June 2006 has expressed its commitment to
pursuing and deepening the economic governance reforms initiated during 2004-2006.
This is reflected in the Extended ICF Document presented at the July 25, 2006 Donors'
Conference in Port-au-Prince and in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
submitted to IDA and the IMFin September 2006.' Buildingon the progress made in the last
two years, the Government intends to implement a second phase of economic governance
reforms focused on promoting efficiency, accountability and transparency in the use o f public
resources. Progress in these areas, in addition to improved security, i s necessary if Haiti is to
achieve the high, sustained and inclusive economic growth required to reduce poverty.

3.   The Government has asked IDA to continue its assistance in the economic
governance area by supporting this second phase of reforms. This Program Document
proposes an Economic Governance Reform Operation 11 (EGRO 11), a development policy
grant in the amount of SDR15.6 million2 (US$23 million equivalent) to be disbursed in two
tranches.    The operation i s part of IDA'S response to the Government's request for
international support and i s part of the lending program detailed in the Interim Strategy Note
for Haiti for FY07-08, scheduled for Board discussion in January 2007.

                    11.RECENTPOLITICALAND ECONOMIC             DEVELOPMENTS

4.  Politicaland economic instability,low growth,and highinequalityand povertyhave
been the key challenges confrontingHaiti in the past. The impact of protracted political


IThe extended Interim CooperationFrameworkpresentedby the Haitian Governmentat the July 2006 donors'
conferenceprovides the financing framework for the I-PRSP.
  SDR amountcalculatedas of 10/31/2006.

                                                     5

conflict, withdrawal o f international economic support, natural disasters and weaknesses in
economic governance and management has been severe. Real income per capita has declined
on average by 2 percent annually over the past twenty years. With more than half o f the
population subsisting on less than one dollar a day, Haiti is the poorest country inthe Latin
 America and Caribbean region and amongst the poorest in the worlda3 There are marked
 inequalities in access to productive assets and public services and nearly half of national
 income goes to the richest 10percent ofthe p~pulation.~

                                  Table 1. Haiti: Selected Economic Indicators
                                         (fiscal year ending September30)

                                                        2003     2004      2005    2006  2007    2008      2009
                                                                (Actual)          (Prel)      (Projections)
                                            (Annual percentagechange)
GDP at constantprices                                      0.4     -3.5       1.8    2.5   4.0      4.0      4.0
RealGDP per capita                                        -1.7     -5.4      -0.2    0.8   2.2      2.3      2.3
Consumerprices (end-of-period)                            37.8     21.7      14.8   12.4   8.0      8.0      7.0

                                                 (In percent of GDP)
Consumption                                              101.0    101.0      99.6  101.0 98.9      97.4     97.0
          Private sector                                  94.0     94.4      93.3   93.8  91.9     90.1     89.4
          Public sector                                    7.0      6.6       6.3    7.2   7.0      7.3      7.6
Investment                                                31.0     27.0      27.4   28.0  31.0     31.0     31.3
          Private sector                                  27.0     24.0      23.0   23.0  23.3     23.5     23.8
          Public sector                                    4.0      3.0       4.4    5.0   7.7       7.5     7.6

CentralGov. overallbalance(incl.grants)                   -3.5     -2.4      -0.7   -1.4  -1.9      -1.9     -1.9
  Current revenues                                         9.0      9.o       9.7   10.2   9.9      10.4     10.9
  CentralGov. expenditure                                 12.6     11.4      13.8   15.0  17.4      17.5     18.0

Currentaccountbalance(incl.grants)                        -1.5     -1.3       1.3   -0.1  -1.0      -0.5     -0.5
Currentaccountbalance(exc. grants)                        -6.1      -4.5     -6.3   -7.5  -9.5      -8.0     -7.9
Total public sector debt                                  47.6     40.8      32.8   32.0  29.2     27.3     27.6

                              (Chartgesin pcrcmc of beg:ginnittg-of-pr.riodbroad money)
Broad money (incl. foreign currency deposits)             39.8       9.1     16.6    6.6  17.9    11.0       10.3

                                (Millions of US.dollars, unlessotherwiseindicated)
Net International Reserves 1/                             38.8     54.5      70.6  125.7
Liquidgrossresewes21                                     157.1    207.4     228.5  330.8
     Inmonths ofimports offoliowingyear                     1.2      1.4      1.4    1.8   2.1       2.5      2.8
Sources: Ministry of Economy andFinance; Bankof the Republic o f Haiti; andFundstaffestimates.
I/Excludescommercialbanks'foreigndepositswithBRH.
21Grossreservesexcluding capital contributions to international organizations.



   The 2006 United Nations Human Development Index ranked Haiti 154th out of 177 countnes. About 54
 percent of Haiti's population lives below the US$1 a day poverty line and 78 percent below US%2a day (2001
 data) (see Country Economic Memorandum, 2006).
    Estimates based on household surveys suggest that poverty and inequality rates may have not changed
 substantially over the last two decades. Part of the explanation could be that, while GDP per capita declined,
 consumptionlevels were maintainedby remittanceswhichhaveacceleratedsince the mid-1990s.

                                                          6

5.  During 2004-06, the Transition Government made progress in stabilizing the
economy (see Table 1). The authorities' macroeconomic program was supported by the
IMF's two consecutive Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance programs' which were
successfblly implemented until their completion in September 2006. Macroeconomic policies
implemented since mid-2004 helped restart economic growth, reestablish fiscal discipline,
reduce inflation and increase international reserves. The economy gradually recovered from
the political turmoil and severe floods experienced in2004 and real GDP i s estimatedto have
risen by 2.5 percent in FY2006 helpedby macroeconomic stability, international economic
assistance and exports.6 This is an improvement over growth o f 1.8 percent in the previous
year and comes despite the volatile security and political situation in an election year. With
increased revenues and tighter expenditure controls, the central Government overall deficit
(includinggrants) was reduced from 3.5 percent o f GDP inFY2003 to 1.4percent inFY2006.
This eliminated recourseto centralbank financing o fthe Government deficit, for the first time
since 1999, and helped reduce end-of-period inflation from 38 percent in FY2003 to an
estimated 12 percent inFY2006; with inflation down, real interest rates on the central bank's
bonds have reached 5 percent. The external current account, including grants, is estimatedto
have been broadly inbalance inFY2006. After three years o f rapid expansion, export growth
slowed, but private remittances exceededUS$1 billion (21 percent o fGDP), more than double
the amount o f international aid. Donor disbursements and foreign direct investment in the
telecom sector also contributed to a balance o f payments surplus and a moderate build-up o f
gross international reserves(to 1.8 months of imports).

6.   Financialsector stability has been maintained,but weaknesses have emerged. Since
June 2005, two banks (accounting for 11percent o f bankingassets) have lost about a third o f
their deposits. To stabilize the situation, the Central Bank (Banque de la Rkpublique d'Haiti,
BRH) acquired a majority stake in the larger bank and injected about US$43 million (1
percent o f GDP), mostly inliquidity support. The smaller bank has been sold to a large local
bank. Weaknesses were also identified in the mechanism o f monetary management and in
financial audit and controls o fthe Central Bank o fHaiti (BRH),and the BRHhas experienced
operational losses (see para. 69).

7.   Significant progress was also achieved in the implementation of economic
governance measures. Prior to 2004, the efficient use o f both domestic resources and
external financing was impededby significant weaknesses, particularlyinthe following areas:
(i)budgetmanagementandfinancialcontrols; (ii) procurement; (iii) enterprise
                                                         public                         public
management and hnding for road maintenance; and (iv) human resource management.
Reflecting these weaknesses, Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index (as
well as other governance indices) has traditionally ranked Haiti among the lowest countries
worldwide and has identified corruption as one o f the main constraints on economic growth
and investment in the country.'       During the period April 2004-April 2006 the Transition
Government implemented a program o f economic governance reforms to improve oversight
andaccountability, enhancetransparencyandincreaseparticipationinpolicymaking.



'Underthe  EPCA, LJS$15.6millionwere disbursedinJanuary andUS.Sl4.7millioninOctober2005.
 'The"La
     HaitianFY runs from October 1 to September30. For example, FY2005 refersto the FY2004/05.
  See    FondationHCritagepour Haiti", L'Etat des Lieux de la Corruption en Haiti, 2003.

                                                    7

8.    Economic governance reforms included actions to improve the legal framework,
create and strengthen core public institutions, and enhance financial management
processes and procedures. Notably, basic budget procedures were restored, the public
procurement system strengthened, and anti-corruption efforts stepped up. Efforts were also
made to improve efficiency and transparencyin the management o f public enterprises and to
strengthenthe RoadMaintenance Fund. Inaddition, the Government introduced amechanism
for civil society to monitor the program of economic governancereforms. Table 2 presents a
summary o f economic governance measures related to participation, accountability and
oversight, and transparency implemented by the Transition Government.                                 A detailed
discussion ofthese measuresis presentedinAnnex 1.

    Table 2. Economic Governance Actions and Policies Implemented by the Transition Government

Participation                          Accountnbility/Ovenight                     Transparency

[nterimCooperation    'I"imefypreparationand adaptianaf the FYZO(15and FYW6        Regular publicdissemination
Framework (ICF)       budgets beforestart of FY and improved dgnmentofbudget       ofkey budgetaflocationsmd
discussedat July 2004 allocationswith povertyreductionand economic recovery        executioninformation.
conference attendedby prioritiesofthe 2004 ICF.
civil society                                                                      Significant reductionof
representativesand    Creationof Anti-Conuption Unit (ULCC) in2004.                discretionaryspendingthrough
donors.                                                                            ministerialcompteswurants'
                      Launchingof financial audits ofEDH (electricity), TELECO     (from 62% of non-salary
Preparation of        (telecoms) and APN (ports authority), and ofaccounting       current public expenditure
comprehensive         rehabilitationofEDHand TELECO.                               during Oct.2003-March2004
diagnosticsurvey of                                                                to lessthan 10% since Sept.
state ofgovernance    Strengthening of external audit fbnction with 2006 Decree on 2004).
andcorruptionin Haiti the organization and functioning of the supreme audit
as inputto design of  institution(CSCCA).
nationalanti-                                                                      Summaryofprogress reports
corruptionstrategy.   Government caught upwith delays in preparationofTreasury     on economic governance

                      accounts.                                                    reformspreparedby civil
                                                                                   society organizationsmade

                      Expansionofautomatedsystem for budgetmanagementfkom          publiclyavailable on MEF
                      5 ministriesand unitsto 17.                                  website.


                      The RoadMaintenanceFund(Fondd'EntretiensRoutiet-             Creation ofNational
                                                                                   Commissionfor Public




                                                                                   website,




9.    After years ofpoliticaldeadlock followingthe disputed2000parliamentaryelections
and a two-year period of political transition, in February and April 2006 Haiti held
successful presidentialand parliamentary elections. PresidentPrkval was elected in the
first round of elections that were generally considered effective and democratic and a

* The "comptes courants" (Ministries' accounts) were originally meant to be used for unforeseen or non-
budgeted needs such as for assistance to those affected by a natural disaster or unexpected travel by policy
makers.

                                                         8

Parliament was formed with representation from multiple parties. A coalition Government,
led by Prime Minister Alexis and including ministers from different political parties, received
almost unanimous approval inParliament inJune 2006.

10. The PrBval-Alexis Governmentintends to move forward with an ambitious agenda
to revive the economy, improve the quality and availability of basic services and modernize
the state. The Government's agenda has received strong support from the donor community
which pledged new assistance o f about US$750 million (16 percent of GDP) until September
2007 at the July 25, 2006 donor conference. In addition, President PrCval has shown a
determination to reach out to all political and social forces inHaiti ina spirit ofreconciliation
and dialogue. These developments offer the hope of boosting private sector confidence and
investment, as well as re-energizing donor support for the region's poorest country.


                        111.THEPREVAL-ALEXISGOVERNMENT                   PROGRAM

OVERALL     PROGRAM

 11. The Government's main development priorities are detailed in the Extended ICF
 Document presented at the July 25,2006 Donors' Conference in Port-au-Princeand in
 the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper completed in September 2006. This
 program represents a continuation o f the axes and the strategic objectives o f the 2004 ICF,
 with an increased emphasis on a national development approach including all of Haiti's
 departments and communes and on interventions aimed at meeting pressing social and
 economic needsindisadvantagedand conflict-prone areas. Also, basedon the lessons learned
 inthe implementation ofthe 2004 ICF, the Governmenthasemphasizedthe importance ofaid
 harmonization according to the principles o f the 2005 Paris Declaration, in particular the
 alignment o finternational aidwith the country's priorities.

 12. The Government's programis organized around four main pillars: (1) strengthening
 political governance and promoting dialogue and reconciliation; (2) improving economic
 governance and modernizing the State; (3) promoting economic growth, including by
 maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework; and (4) improving access to quality basic
 services, particularly for the most vulnerable groups. This program, presented at the July,
 2006 donors' conferencehosted by the HaitianGovernment inPort-au-Prince, received strong
 endorsement from the donor community and representatives from the Haitian society,
 includingthe Parliament.

 13. Followingthe conference, the Government finalizedan I-PRsP9in September 2006,
 which reconfirms the above development priorities and describesthe consultative processthat
 the Government intends to follow over the coming year for the preparation o f the fillPRSP,
 togetherwith the programandcalendar for national andlocal consultations.




   A Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note onthe InterimPRSP, discussedby the IMFand IDA BoardsonNov. 20
 and 21 respectively, indicates that the I-PRSPprovidesan appropriate framework for povertyreductionand use
  ofresourcesthat wouldbecome availableunder the HIPC Initiative.

                                                      9

14. The Haitian Government faces a tall reformagenda, whose implementationrequires
considerable technical, human and financial resources. First is the need to reestablish a
climate o f security and consolidate the democratic transition, notably by strengthening the
Haitian police and intensifyingdisarmament and reintegration programs.1o As part o f efforts
to reestablish security, it will also be important to bring about visible improvement o f living
standards in urban shanty towns, through the Government's "Frogrumme d 'Appaisement
Social *I.''  Second i s the need to build institutional capacity for program implementation.
Third, scarce availability o fresourcesand competing demands call for a carefbl prioritization
and sequencingo f interventions to favor those policy options that addresscritical bottlenecks
in the country's development. Fourth, an inclusive country dialogue with all political and
social forces will be critical to ensure political stability, and a far-reaching development
agenda.

MACROECONOMIC          FRAMEWORK

15. The Government's macroeconomic framework for FY2007-09 seeks to raise
medium-term GDP growth to 4 percent, reduce inflation to around 6 percent and
stabilize the external current account deficit (excluding grants) at about 8-9 percentof
GDP(see Table 1). The authorities' macroeconomic program hasbeendefined inthe context
of an IMFthree-year PRGF arrangementfor SDR73.71 millionthat was discussedbythe IMF
Board on November 20, 2006. Growth i s expected to accelerate in agriculture, assembly
exports and tourism. The accelerationo f economic growth to 4 percent inFY2007 (from 2.5
percent in FY2006) assumes improvements in security conditions, continued strong external
support and increasedpublic investment. Sustaining economic growth at 4 percent duringthe
mediumterm, a rate similar to that achievedduringpast periods of stability but lower than in
many other countries emerging from conflict, will depend critically on maintainingsecurity,
sustaining political and macroeconomic stability, continuing progress on economic
governance and improving social and economic infiastructure.                          Notably, agricultural
production and exports are expectedto pick up as infrastructure constraints, such as poor road
conditions and low storage capacity, are gradually removed. Assembly industries could
benefit from the Hope Act, which would extend preferential access to the U S market.
Improvements in hotel infiastructure would create favorable conditions for the tourism
industry which could initially cater to the large Haitiandiaspora and later to the international
market. External grants are expected to remain broadly unchanged and private remittances
would continue to increasemoderately. Donor support is expectedto be largelyinthe form o f
grants, and increased foreign direct investment would reflect new investment opportunities.
Gross official reserveswould rise to about 2.5 months o fimportsbyendFY2009.

 16. The authorities' medium-term fiscal strategy is to increase revenues and further
enhance budgetary management, to allow for more poverty reducing spending and
investment. The central Government overall fiscal balance (excluding grants) isprogrammed
to average about 7 percent during FY2007-2009 (or 1.6 percent excluding grants and
externally-financed projects) with expectedexternal assistancebeingadequateto close the gap


 loFora drhiledanalysis of issues andpossible r e f o m inthese areas, refer to World Bank(2006), Haiti Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM).
 11 The Programme d`Appaisement Social is aimed at promoting visible and rapid improvements in access to
public services and creatingjob opportunities, particularly indisadvantagedandconflict-prone areas.

                                                       10

for FY2007. The Government i s strongly committed to implementing measures to increase
revenues through tax administration improvements and measures to combat tax evasion.12
These focus on establishing effective customs control at all ports o f entry andborders (which
i s currently weak, especially outside Port-au-Prince), reinforcing and restructuring the tax
collection agencies, enhancing computerization o f tax and customs administration offices,
reinforcing the tax audit mechanism andsubmittinga new customs code to Par1ian1ent.l~ The
wage bill will expand from 3.3 percent o f GDP inFY2006 to 4.6 percent o f GDP inFY2009
to allow for anincreaseingovernment real wages, inpart to compensatefor past inflation, and
new hiring for security and social services. Government expenditure will be gradually re-
oriented from transfers and subsidies to public sector enterprises to increased spending in
health, education, infrastructure and security to support the economic recovery and make
progress towards meeting the MDGs.                      The public investment program will center on
improving infrastructure. In addition, to reduce the vulnerability of the budget to external
shocks, the Government will continue to implement a flexible price-setting mechanism for
petroleum prices. The authorities have confirmed their commitment to maintaining a flexible
exchange rate regime. It may also be noted that Haiti maintains a highly open trade regime
and acapital accountwithout significant exchangerestrictions.

 17. In November 2006, Haiti qualified for debt relief under the Enhanced Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative by reaching the decision point under the
initiative. IDA and IMFstaffs' analysispresentedinthe HIPC DecisionPointd~cument'~for
Haitishowsthat, basedon end-September 2005 data, at that point Haiti's debt innetpresent
value terns correspondedto 177percent o f exports o fgoods and services, which exceededthe
HIPC Initiative export window's threshold o f 150 percent. External debt sustainability i s
expected to improve in the medium term (with debt in net present value terms falling to 94
percent of exports of goods and services by 2025 after conditional delivery o f HIPC and
MDRI), with delivery of HIPC interim debt relief starting at the Decision Point, and debt
relief under the MDRI starting at the Completion Point. Debt relief would contribute to
creating fiscal space for muchneededpoverty-related expenditures and encouragegovernance,
structural and social reforms. The Government will continue to seek concessional external
financing and is committed to further strengthen debt management capacity to maintaindebt
sustainabilityafter the deliveryoftheHPC InitiativeandMDMassistance.

 18. The authorities are preparing a plan to address financial sector weaknesses with
assistanceprovided by the IMF and the IDB. This will include measuresto recapitalize the
Central Bank, divest its stake in non-core operations (notably in the telecom company and
other non-core operations), finalize and implement a resolution strategy and contingency plan
for the larger troubled bank which the Central Bank has taken over (including by divesting
BRHcontrol), canyout on-site inspectionsof keybankswiththeparticipation ofinternational

 12  In view of uncertainties regarding disbursement of donor assistance and the risks ahead, the authorities'
budgethas conservativerevenueassumptions.
 j 3The Government's tax mobilization efforts focus primarily on strengthening tax administration, combating
fraud, underinvoicing andtax evasion, and enforcing recenttax provisions relatedto the coverage and application
o fnew fiscal stamps for excise taxes on cigarettes andalcohol, income tax, corporate tax andlump-sumtax.
 14 For a full discussionof Haiti's eligibility for assistance under the HIPC Initiative, the results o f the joint IMF-
IDA debt sustainability analysis and possible HIPC and MDRI assistance, see Republic ofHaiti                -  Enhanced
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative - Decision Point Document, November 2006 which was
discussedby the Boardsofthe IMFand LDA onNovember 20 and 21,2006, respectively.

experts and modernize markets for instruments o f monetary control.              The BRH has
strengthened its surveillance of credit cooperatives and a draft new banking law consistent
with international standards i s expected to be finalized and submitted to Parliament later this
year. Inaddition, the external audit o f the BRH accounts for FY2004was completed and the
report published. The BEZHwas also subject to an IMF safeguards assessment in relation to
drawings under the EPCA and the vulnerabilities identified bythat assessment are now being
addressed. Additional measures may be taken in the financial sector following a Financial
Sector Program Assessment to be conducted at the request o fthe Govemment bythe IMFand
IDA in2007.


            IV.KEYISSUES REFORMSECONOMICGOVERNANCE
                            AND PLANNED                 IN

19. Despite recent reforms, weaknesses in economic governance and public sector
managementremain significant. Weaknessesineconomic governancerepresent one of the
most serious obstacles to sustained economic growth and poverty reduction in Haiti. While
the Transition Government made significant progress in implementinggovernance reforms in
the last two years, these started from a very low base and largely focused on improving the
legal and institutional framework for public expenditure and public enterprise management.
Going forward, future governance reforms will need to focus on ensuring that (i)     procedures
and practices are consistent with the revised legal and institutional framework; (ii)
mechanisms to better target public resources are set up; and (iii)    citizens are empowered in
ways that will improve public sector transparency and accountability. Improving economic
governance in Haiti will require not only enhancing public finance and human resource
managementbut also shifting the relationship betweenthe state and society from one that had
long been closed and discretionary to one that i s transparent, rule-bound and participatory.
Given the nature and depth o f the economic governance challenges inHaiti and the existing
weak institutional capacity, the process o f reform implementation will necessarily cover
several phases andresults will be incremental and take time, but continued donor support for
these reforms will be critical for strengthening the ability o fthe Govemment to effectively use
domestic and external resources for social and economic development.

20. The Government intends to pursue and deepen economic governance reforms. It
recognizes that the successful implementation o f its ambitious development agenda will
critically depend on progress made in strengthening public institutions and applying
transparentrules andprocedures to ensure their performance andaccountability. Specifically,
the authorities plan to further improve public financial management, strengthen the
procurement function, enhance the public sector's human resource management and
employees' accountability,      and modernize and gradually decentralize Government
administration. At the sectoral level, they aim to improve efficiency and transparency inthe
management o f public enterprises; strengthen the road maintenance system to ensure the
sustainability o f ongoing and planned intiastructure rehabilitation works; and introduce
governance measures in the education sector to enhance efficiency and accountability inthe
use o f public education funds. Finally, the Government intends to strengthen the ongoing
mechanismfor civil society to monitor the programof economic governancereforms.




                                                12

21. The Governmenthas identifiedits program of economic governancereformsfor the
coming two years as detailedbelow and inthe Letter of DevelopmentPolicy presentedin
Annex 2."     These measures are supported in a coordinated fashion by the IMF PRGF, and
IDB, IDA and other donors' policy-based support andtechnical assistance. The Government
has also expressed its intention to develop a multi-year program o f economic governance
reforms which will be an input into the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper whose preparation
the Government is launching and around which donors could coordinate their budget support
and technical assistance in a programmatic fashion. It is expected that such multi-year
programwould be developedbythe authorities duringFY2007.

PUBLICRNANCIAL MANAGEMENT              AND PUBLICPROCUREMENT

22. Continuedimprovementsin Haiti's publicfinancialmanagementsystem (PFM) will
be criticalto enhance effectiveness, accountabilityand transparencyin the use of public
resources and make public service delivery more responsive and effective. InJune 2006 a
Public Expenditure Management assessment (Assessment and Action Plan, AAP) was
conductedjointly by IDNIMF staff in consultation with the authorities. The AAP examined
the current status of financial management in Haiti in light o f the legal and institutional
reforms introduced in2005 and 2006 and identifiedpriority interventions that have informed
the Government's economic governance reform program.                   Also, a Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) preparedby IDA in 2006 examined key priorities for reform in this
area.   This analytical work confirms that, despite the improvements in PEM performance
made in a relatively short time as described in Section III,significant weaknesses remain.
Presentationo f the budget i s not comprehensive as ministries' and deconcentratedagencies'
own resourcesandrelated expenditures are not included inthe budget, and there are a number
o f extra-budgetary funds. The cadres o f accountants and comptrollers defmed in the new
budget law are still not completely in place and the General Finance Inspectorate is not
established yet, limiting the effectiveness o f the new control framework. The detailed
accounting and internal control procedures that should accompany the implementation of the
provisions o fthe new budget law have not been developed yet. The Superior Court o fAudits
and Administrative Disputes (Cow Supbrimre des Comptes et de Contentiw Administratif,
CSCCA) is still very weak andhas not succeeded yet inimplementing its reorganization and
strengthening planto enhance external audit functions. Other remaining weaknesses include:
the lack ofup-to-date proceduresandmanuals concerningbudgetpreparation; the absence ofa
budget classification along hctional lines to track sectoral programs; the needto introduce a
mechanism to track priority expenditure for poverty reduction; and the absence of exhaustive
and reliable information on the stock o f internal arrears which affects budget execution. The
AAP and CEM reports also highlightthe need to: improve the quality o f monthly fiscal data;
introduce tighter controls for new recruitments in the civil service and introduce systems for
monitoringand evaluation o fthose already employed; and gradually introduce a medium-term
expenditure framework with programbudgets for at leastthe keyministries.

23. Since May 2006, the Government has continued its efforts to improveefficiency and
transparency in the use of public resources. First, the FY2007 budget was prepared
according to the new budgct clsssifiicarion and chart of accounts and was adopted by

 IsMeasuresto fight tax evasionand improve the performance ofthe revenuecollectionagenciesare not detailed
inthis sectionas they havealreadybeendescribedinpara. 16.

                                                    13

Parliament before the start o f the fiscal year; as in the previous two years, the budget was
postedon the Ministryo fEconomy and Financewebsite (www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht). The budget
adequately reflects the I-PRSP priorities, notably through increased allocations for the
implementation o f the Programme d 'AppaisementSocial (0.2 percent o f GDP including for
small investment projects in all 140 communes o f Haiti, an important step towards more
balanced regional development), the strengthening o f the tax and customs directorates,
programsintransport, environment, education, health and agriculture, the strengthening of the
police, the fbnctioning o f critical economic governance agencies (ULCC, CSCCA and
CN"), and the payment o frecently identifiedwage arrears and indemnityto workers laid off
outside the regular process. The budget also allows for the recruitment inkey areas such as
education and security, and increasing government wages to compensate for inflation of the
past two years. The proposed operation supports the satisfactory execution o f the FY2007
budget inaccordance with its objectives and approved allocations and the timely submission
to Parliament o f the FY2008 budget reflecting key priorities o f the I-PRSP as secondtranche
conditions.     Second, the Government has completed the second and final phase of the
expansion of the automated system for budget management (SYSDEP) to all remaining
ministries, with a total o f 36 public institutions now being connected.16             This second
expansion allows for a shorter expenditure approval process and increased transparency and
controls in expenditure appropriations in those ministries where expenditure procedures
remained manual, including the Police, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security, the
National Penitentiary Administration, and the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. The
authorities are also working to add three modules to SYSDEP (general ledger to record
accounting transactions, fixed assets and public investment management).                 Third, the
Government has maintained the commitment to keep the spending through ministerial
comptes couruntsto less than 10percent and ismeetingthis target.

24. Measures have also been taken to strengthen internal and external controls. A first
group o f nine public accountants has been hiredto work in various ministries and a second
recruitment effort for an additional 30 is being launched. While a first effort to recruit
financial comptrollers has not been successfill, a second recruitment effort is beinglaunched.
An internal controlmanual is also expected to be introducedbyDecember 2006. Inaddition,
the CSCCA is inthe process of catching up with the preparation of annual audits of budget
execution reports - with the FY2002 and FY2003 audits completed and the FY2004 and
FY2005 audits havingbeen started. Re-establishing annualaudits o f Government accounts in
strict observance with the legal framework, together with the resumption o f Parliament
oversight functions, will strengthen external controls. The proposed operation supports as a
prior action for Board presentation the completion by the CSCCA and submission to
Parliament o f the audit o f the FY2003 Treasury accounts and as a second tranche condition
the submission to Parliament of the Loi de Reglement for FY2006 and o f the CSCCA audit




l6The expansion of the SYSDEP was undertaken intwo phases. The frst phase, completedunderthe Transition
Government, covered 17 ministries and units including the MEF, the ministries of Planning and External
Cooperation (MPCE), Education (MENJS), Health (MSPF), Public Works, Trzutsport and Comdcation
(MTPTC), Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR), the Tax and Customs
Directorates, the CSCCA, the ULCC, and the Presidency and Prime Minister's Office. The second phase,
completedby the current Government, includedthe remainingministries andunits.

                                                  14

for the FY2004 and FY2005 Treasury accounts. Timely compliance with legally mandated
audit requirements for subsequent fiscal years is an HIPC completion point trigger."

25. The Government intends to continue to strengthen publicexpenditure management.
Specifically, the Government plans to: (i)improve efficiency inthe use o fpublic resourcesby
aligning public spending with the priorities identifiedinthe I-PRSP and, when completed, the
PRSP, reflecting emphasis on pro-poor growth; (ii)             enhance transparency by continuing to
disseminate regular information on budget allocations and execution, adopting an automated
mechanismto track poverty-reducing public expenditure and pubiicly disseminating quarterly
expenditure reports, further reducing the use of comptes couranrs, and including ministries'
and deconcentrated agencies' own resources and related expenditures in the budget; (iii)
tighten budget execution by setting quarterly limits on the expenditure of each ministryand
ensuring that all recruitment and promotion proposals are within each ministry's budget
appropriations, and formulating a plan for, and settling, domestic arrears; (iv) prepare a
manual for budget formulation andexecution, including procedures for preparationof a multi-
year budget framework, starting with keyministries, andfor public investment managementto
provide rigorous project selection, efficient execution and monitoring; and (v) create a
GeneralFinance Inspectorate to M e r strengtheninternal controls and ensure accountability
andoversight o fGovernment accountsin strict observanceo fthe prevailinglegalframework.

26. Despite progress made since 2004 in reforming the public procurement system,
additional actions are needed to translate the recently introduced legislative and
institutional procurement reforms into fully transparent and efficient procurement
practices. Specifically, the use of sole-source contracts and unadvertised bidding remains
widespreadand compliance with the new legislative fiamework by some government agencies
i s deficient.     This is o f particular importance given the increasing number o f public
procurement processes resulting fiom growing external aid. The Government intends to
strengthen further the procurement system by ensuring compliance by all Government
purchasing agencies and enhancing the legislative M e w o r k in line with international best
practice." It has already taken actions to pursue and deepen the procurement reforms. First,
inJune andAugust 2006 the Prime Minister issued two Circulars to Ministers asking themto
ensure compliance with procurement norms, put in place procurement commissions in each
ministry (an EGRO Ilprior action for Board presentation) and prepare annual procurement
plans for FY2007. To enhance oversight o f procurement processes, the Prime Minister also
issued a Circular in August 2006 instructing Ministries, public financial institutions, public
enterprises and autonomous agencies to obtain the C W ' s prior approval for any public
procurementcontract above HG300,OOO.

27. With the support of an internationalprocurement consulting firm, the CNMP has
developed tools for improving practices, notably standard bidding documents for goods,


 " SeeRepublicof Haiti   - Enhanced   Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative -Decision Point
Document,November 2006.
 18 While the 2005 Procurement Decree represented an improvement over the 1989 decree, by establishing the
National Commissionfor Public Proeumem, atT&ng          &e we of competitive procmment methods as the nom
;urd introducing more effective procurement controls in the public administration, a new procurement law is
needed to bring the procurement system inline with international best practice, includingby reducing the scope
 for sole-sourcing and unadvertised bidding.

                                                       15

works and consulting services, a manual for public procurement procedures and models for
procurement plans. This proposed operation supports as a second tranche condition the
adoption by key sector ministries and public enterprises (Ministries o f Education, Health,
Public Works and Justice, and EDH and APN) o f the standard bidding documents and
proceduremanual as evidencedby an independentreview o fthe procedureso ftheseministries
andpublic enterprisesbyan audit firmofinternational reputecompetitively selected. Next, to
enhance transparency the database o f Government contracts and suppliers (which i s already
publicly available on the CNMP website) i s beingenhancedby the provisiono f more specific
andup-to-date informationwhich canbe downloaded from the CNMP website. Inaddition, a
program o f training and information on recent public procurement reforms i s being
implemented for both public officials andprivate operators. Finally, to address the remaining
weaknesses in the legal framework, the CNMP has prepared a new draft Procurement Law
which will bring Haitian legislation more in line with international best practice.
Consultations on the new draft law are ongoing and it is expected that it will be submitted to
Parliament in 2007. A companion procurement code of ethics and transparency for public
officials andprivate operators is also underpreparation.

HUMAN     RESOURCEMANAGEMENT            AND ANTI-CORRUPTION EFFORTS

28. The inadequate quality and quantity of human resources have been a primary
impediment to publicsector emciency inHaiti. The situation is aresult ofboththe general
scarcity o f skilledpeople inthe country (exacerbated by outward migration) andthe lack o fan
adequateincentives and accountability system to attract, maintain and motivate civil servants.
Public sector employment in Haiti is very small by international standards. In2004, public
sector employment correspondedto 0.7 percent o fthe population, comparedwith 2 percent in
Africa and 7.7 percent among developed market ec~nomies.'~The concentration o f staff in
Port-au-Prince aggravates the problem, especially for programs depending on decentralized
execution or enforcement. Also, public sector salaries lost about fifty percent o f their value
between 1995 and 2000, and dropped more rapidly afterwards. Public sector capacity also
represents a serious obstacle to aid absorption, as the Government i s often ill-equipped to
respond to the competing requirements of the different donors. Dealingwith these shortfalls
in a manner that supports sustainedpublic sector efficiency will require increasing efficiency
in the use of scarce human resources and implementing medium-term reforms involving
systemic restructuring ofthe civil service.

29. Buildingon recent initial efforts (see Annex l), authoritiesintend to modernize
                                                           the
the Central Government and increase public sector employees' accountability.
Specifically, the Government plans to gradually reform the existing regulatory and legislative
frameworks, as well as the incentive, merit and remuneration systems. This will involve first
determining the number, mission, and function o f employees in the ministries and
autonomous entities and later rationalizing employment and the salary policy in the public
sector. Such restructuring o f the civil service, implemented in a gradual manner, will help
increase the efficiency o f the use o f scarce humanresources. As a first step inthis effort, in
addition to ensuring that all recruitment and promotion proposals are within each ministry's
budget appropriations (see para. 29, the Government plans to update the public sector


l9Jaramillo,L.(2005) "Public Sector EmploymentinHaiti", IMFSelected IssuesPaper, SM/05/149.
                                                16

employee registry and ensure its regular use, define transparent, merit-based procedures for
new recruitments and promotions, and develop mechanisms for monitoring compliance. A
Coordination Unit in the Prime Minister's Office has taken responsibility for the human
resource functions as a first step to overseeing the preparation and implementation o f kture
reforms. The proposed operation supports the updating o f the registry o f state employees and
the definition o f the system, applicability and procedures for merit-based appointments and
promotions as a secondtranche condition.

                    Box 1: Diagnostic Survey of Governance and Corruption inHaiti

In 2005, the Government launched a comprehensive diagnostic survey of the state of governance and the
perceptionsand experienceso f the population with corruption inHaiti. The survey was designed inpartnership
with civil societyrepresentativesandwiththe technical and financial assistanceo fthe WorldBank Institute. The
survey helped identify activities and agencies where corruption is concentrated in Haiti, thus providing
information to establish priorities for reform and a baseline to measure future progress. The survey sample
included householdmembers(1072), enterprise managers (506), NGOs representatives(100) andpublic officials
(906). The survey was conducted during the period August 2005-May 2006 and covered three areas: Port-au-
Prince (the capital), Cap Haitien(secondarytown) andthe border areas.

Resultsprovide a startlingpicture of corruption inHaitithat hurtspublic welfare andtaxes private sector activity.
Ninety-one percent o f households, 87 percent o f enterprisemanagers and 88 percent of public officials identify
corruption in the public sector as a major or very serious problem. Payment o f bribes to access basic public
servicesor licenses, influence court decisions or award public contracts or positions is identified as a major form
of corruption inthe country. Corruption has serious implications for public finance. About 70 percent ofpublic
officials indicated that bribes were a frequent practice to avoid paying taxes and customs duties. The Customs
and Tax Directorates and the judicial system (including the police) are identified as the most corrupt among
public agencies. The key public enterprises (TELECO, CAMEP, SNEP, and EDH) are also listed most poorly
among public service providers. The financial cost of corruption is clearly recognized by survey respondents:
households and private enterprises indicate they are ready to pay 7-8 percent o f their income to completely
eliminate Corruption.

The ULCC plansto sponsor public workshops at the national level inthe coming months to discuss the results of
the survey and the relatedpolicy reformagenda. These would provide an inputto the designo fa national multi-
sectoralanti-corruption strategy.




                                                        17

30. To increase public sector employees' accountability and reduce corruption, the
Government intends to adopt and implement a law on income and asset declaration which has
been drafted by the Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC). The law (1) requires, at a minimum, that
the individuals formally identified by the Constitution and public officials designated as
comptablesde denierspubzics declare annually (i) assets they, their spouses, anddependent
                                                           all
children own or have the beneficial use of, (ii)       all income received from whatever source; (2)
sanctions all individuals who either do not submit a declaration or submit a false one; and (3)
assigns to the ULCC the responsibility for monitoring the evolution o f the assets o f the
aforementionedindividuals and for presentingto the CSCCA andthe Parliamentary ethics and
anti-corruption committees the results of its monitoring through annual compliance reports.
Already, in a significant effort to increase transparency, the FY2007 budget included in an
annex a fairly comprehensive list o f Government employees with their respective
remunerations (this annex is also available on the MEF website). In addition, in 2007 the
ULCC plans to submit for Government approval a multi-sectoral strategy to fight corruption.
The strategy, whose preparation is supported by the proposed operation as a second tranche
condition, will be informed by a recently completed diagnostic survey o f the state o f
governance and corruption inHaiti(see Box 1). The Unit is also developing a staff training
plan that focuses on international best practices and lessons learned from efforts in other
countries.

IMPROVING EFFICIENCY         AND TRANSPARENCY          INPUBLICINFRASTRUCTUREMANAGEMENT

31. The administrationof publicenterprises has longbeen characterizedby inadequate
financial and operating practices, politicized and excessive staffmg, and a lack of
managerialaccountability. Inaddition, financial relations with the Government have been
opaque and informal. The national budget has lacked lines for the payment o f electricity,
water, and telephone bills by state bodies, while public enterpriseshave not always paid their
taxes. The companies have not maintained adequate accounting systems or reported regular
accounts, which has obscured the use o fprofits, includingthe receipt by past governmentso f
significant revenues from the telecommunications utility, TELECO (now loss-making). In
addition, the electricitysector has been a significant drain an government resources, through
funds provided to the state electricity company EDH (which is technically bankrupt),
payments for private electricity generation and purchaseso f he1for generators2' Inthe ports
sector, the continuing loss o f potential revenues for both ports services and customs, due to
organizational weaknesses, corruption, inadequate facilities and poor enforcement capacity,
representsa major challenge.

32. A lack of maintenance and investment, amid insufficient funding and weak
institutionalcapacity, has caused infrastructure assets and services to deteriorate since
the early 1990s. The coverage, quality and reliability o f electricity, telecoms, and water
supply in Haiti are now the worst in the Western Hemisphere. Fewer than a third o f
households have access to electricity, while around 11 percent receive piped water. Fixed
telephone lines have a penetration rate o f only 1.8 percent, and there are no sewerage systems

                         ~




2o Over the past six years, central government transfers to EDHhave increased to 1.3 percent of GDP, or 8.8
percent of total government expenditure. During FY2006, with risinginternational petroleum prices, electricity
production inPort-au-Princedeclined by about a third, while fiscal transfers remainedbroadly unchanged.

                                                      18

or wastewater treatment facilities and few arrangements for solid waste disposal. Water and
electricity are often only available for a few hours per day, and roughly half the telephone
lines do not work. The transport sector presents a similar picture: only about 5 percent of
roads are ingood condition (down h m 34 percent in 1991) while ports services are the most
expensive and least efficient inthe Caribbean.

33. To improve the quality of public services to consumers and promote economic
activity, the Government aims to improve efficiency and transparency in the
administrationof key publicenterprises. The FY2005 financial audits o fAPN, EDH, and
TELECO completed in recent months by international firms have produced clear
recommendations on the basis o f which the companies are developing and advancing with
action plans for overhauling their internal systems and procedures. EDH and TELECO have
completed accounting rehabilitations and are both undertaking asset inventories, to be
externally evaluated. APN plans to follow a similar process prior to undertaking its own
accounting rehabilitation. All three companies are also planningto improve their accounting
systems (for example, by switching from cash-based to accrual accounting). The authorities
also intend to include expenditure lines for electricity, water and telecoms in the FY2008
ministries' budgets to ensure these pay their bills to EDH, TELECO and CAh4EP. This
proposed operation supports as a prior action for Board presentation the completion o f the
audits for APN, EDH and TELECO, which have built momentum toward reform within the
companies and the Government, with support fkom international donors. However, actual
progress will dependpartly on the continued availability o f external assistance to support the
Government inthe implementation o f key audit recommendations. The Government is inthe
process o f launching financial, technical and administrative audits for the metropolitan water
utility (CAMEP).~'

34. To promotetransparency and accountabilityin the significant public expenditures
for the electricity sector, the Government has adopted a monitoring mechanism. This
tracks on a monthly basis fiscal transfers to EDH, as well as Sogenor and Alstom, the two
independent power producers (IPPs). It also shows the volume and price o f petroleum
purchased by the government for generation by all three firms, the amount o f electricity
produced, EDH's operatingexpenditures andrevenues, the cashrecovery index, andthe hours
o f electricity provided in Port-au-Prince and the provinces. The information is provided by
EDH, MTPTC and MEF and is publishedon the MEFwebsite.22 The first report, posted in
October 2006, reflected July data.          A new report, also containing data for August and
September, was posted inNovember. Going forward, the government aims to produce timely
reports for eachmonth, to be audited by external auditors on a quarterlybasis. The proposed
operation supports the establishment o f this mechanism, as shown by the publication o f
reports with three months' data as a prior action for Boardpresentation.

35. In addition, the authorities are introducingcompetitiveprocesses for the purchase
of fuel for generators and for the award of power purchasingagreements (PPAs). The
government recently launched a competitive biddingprocess for the purchase o f 3.13 million

'' In2006, the Government selecteda firmfor the financial audit of CAMEP on a competitive basisbut the fm
withdrew due to security concerns. An audit was also planned for the airport authority (AAN) butdonor funding
hasnotbeenavailable.
22 www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht.

                                                     19

gallons of gas oil for electricity generation and a competitive process to contract a PPA for an
additional 30 MWHo fgeneration capacity. Inaddition to increasing transparencythrough the
systematic use of standard procedures to purchase fuel and electricity, the Government
commitment to competitive contracting inthe electricity sector i s a key element o f its strategy
to make the use o f public resources inthe electricity sector more efficient. This strategy also
includes the Government's commitment to not extend, revise or renew existing contracts (for
either electricity or fuel purchases) through direct negotiations but instead to tender them
through competitive bidding. Thus, the Government has announced that it will launch
competitive biddingto replace the existing PPAs for the supply o f electricity to Port-au-Prince
and main provincial towns, when the existing contracts expire in 2007. The proposed
operation supports the use of competitive processesin all further contractual arrangementsfor
the purchase o f power (whether through new contracts or the modification or extension o f
existing contracts) for the supply of electricity to the capital and mainprovincial towns as a
secondtranche condition."

36. These efforts to promote transparency and competitiveness complement ongoing
donor-financed activitiesto strengthen EDHandthe operationofthe electricity sector as
a whole. Inaddition to support for the audits and related measuresdiscussed above, donors
(the US,France, Canada, EUand IDA, the latter through the ongoing US$6 millionEZectricity
Loss Reduction Project) are funding projects to repair EDH generators, increase revenues
through the reduction o f technical and non-technical losses in the firm, and rehabilitate the
electricity network. Such measures aim to build a stronger, more self-sustaining sector that
will require less government support over the longer term. However for the time being, it is
not realistic to target anoverall reductioninstate spendingon electricity, given EDH's state of
financial crisis, existing contractual commitments with IPPs and the fact that reducing
spendingon fuel would directlyreduce the amount o felectricity generated. Butgreater results
(in terms of electricity output and efficiency) can be sought from making state spending on
fbel and fbture PPAs more transparent andcompetitive.

37. The Government also plans to revise the legal and regulatory framework for the
telecoms sector to enhance sector governance and promote public-privatepartnerships.
The Government has concluded a sector-wide review and prepared a comprehensive action
planaimed at improvingsector performance. Inaddition to the financial audit and accounting
rehabilitation mentioned above, TELECO has beenundergoing a restructuring process for its
management and staffing, including the appointment o f a well respected professional
manager, the replacement o fmost o fthe staff inthe finance department andthe installation of
a modem financial management system. The sector as a whole has seen substantial growth
after the entry o fthe third cellular operator (Digicel), supported inpart by an IFC investment.
However, fbrther expansion i s on hold due to the lack o f an adequate legal and regulatory
framework (e.g., there are no rules inplace to govern interconnection between operators) and
a perceived risk o f increasing taxation pressure. While the telecoms sector officially has an
independentregulatory body, this lacks financial andoperational autonomy inpractice.




23 To protect the environment, the bidding documents for new PPAs will specify that the construction and
operation of generation facilities will be subject to World Bank recommendationson environmental aspects, in
addition to Haitianrequirements.

                                                       20

38. The Government is also interested in pursuing broad reforms in the water and
sanitation and ports sectors. In the water sector, several donor-financed projects are
ongoing or under preparation (including a planned IDA-financed Rural Water and Sanitation
Project, US$5 million) to increase access to safe water and sanitation facilities. With the
assistanceo f IDA andthe IDBthe Government hasprepared a draft national strategy for rual
water supply and sanitation and a draft water and sanitation framework law that it intends to
submit to Parliament in the coming months. The law will, for the first time, clearly assign
policy and regulatory functions separate from the role o f service provision, while promoting
decentralization, improved governance and public-private partnerships.                       In addition to
implementing the recommendations o f the APN financial audit as mentioned above, the
Govemment has also indicated its intention to address the loss o f potential revenuesat ports,
with the security support o fMINUSTAH, and financing provided bydonors (notably the IDB)
for enhancemento fphysical infiastructure and operating practices, initially at the mainporto f
thecapital.

39. To ensure the sustainability of the large road investments currently being
~ndertaken?~the Government must establish a sustainable flow of resourcesto finance
road maintenanceactivities. More generally, it also needs to pursue the establishmentofan
efficient road maintenance system. Despite the progress achieved in2005-06 instrengthening
the road maintenance fund (FER)2' with the recruitment of key staff and the definition o f its
operational procedures, the new institution will take time to develop adequate capacity. The
ongoing IDA-financed Transport and Tern-torialDevelopment Project (US$16 million) and a
PPIAF-hded technical assistance are providing targeted technical assistance to support the
FER. Inaddition, the Government has pledged to provide the FER with adequate fbnding
from earmarked taxes (principally a gasoline tax of one Gourde per gallon) on a timely basis.
It also aims to ensure that the FER uses these resources transparently, efficiently and
according to the road maintenance strategy endorsed by its five-member Board, which
includes a representative o f road users (named by the transporters' union) to promote greater
accountability.      The govemment also plans to include in the FY2008 budget an annex
detailing the planned revenues and expenditures for the FER (an EGRO II's second tranche
condition). The current lack of a budget line or annex for the FER makes it difficult to track
whether sufficient resourceshavebeenallocated to it for roadmaintenance.

40. To promote transparency and oversight of the use of road maintenance funds, the
government plans a dual system of audits for the FER This is necessarybecause annual
financial audits of the FERwill be too narrow to capture the whole road maintenance system,
as road maintenance contracts are planned and prepared by the MTPTC. Therefore, the
authorities have agreed to undertake road maintenance technical and financial audits which
will examine not only the FER but also the MTPTC (for planning and contracting o f road
 maintenance activities) and MEF (for timely transfer o f                          The proposed operation

 24  B y May 2006, works were underway to rehabilitate 198 kilometers of the primary road network and 316
 kilometers of secondary and tertiary roads, financed mainly bythe IDBand EU.
 *'FERfinances    and controls roadmaintenance contractsprocuredby MTPTCon priority road segments.
    These road maintenance auditing requirements are defined here as completion, approval by FER Board and
 publication of the Annual Financial Audits as requiredby Art. 17 (1) of the FER Law published inLe Moniteur
 on July 24,2003 and completion of a Road Maintenance Technical and Financial Audit. Furthermore, "Annual
 Financial Audits" are defined as annual auditing activities, as required by Art. 25 and 17 (1) of the FER Law
 published inLe Moniteur onJuly 24,2003. "Road Maintenance Technical and FinancialAudit" is defined as an

                                                       21

supports completion o f road maintenance auditing requirements for at least one year as a
secondtranche condition.

EDUCATION      SECTOR GOVERNANCE

41. Despite the advances indicated above, slower progress has been made in Haiti in
engaging citizens at the sectoral level to enhance user participationand transparency
with regard to resource flows and results for front-line service provision. While some
examples exist for social monitoring o fservice provision, these remain limited. Inan effort to
start addressing this gap, the Government intends to implement measures to increase
transparency, accountability and efficiency in the use o f public funds in the education sector
by involvingparentsandcommunities. These include actions to enhancethe oversight role o f
parents in public schools and putting in place arrangements to ensure transparency in the
planneduse o fpublic resourcesto hndtuition-fiee enrollment o fout-of-school poor children
inprivate schools. Withthe education sectorabsorbing21percentofthe recurrentbudget and
accounting for the majority o f civil servants, improving governance in this sector would
contribute significantly to improvingthe governance o fpublic finances more generally. These
efforts would also provide useful lessonsand insights for the development o fmechanismsthat
could be introduced to improve transparencyand accountability inthe use o fpublic resources
through social monitoringinother sectors.

42. Measures are been launched to enhance the oversight role of parents in public
schools. Inorder to enhancehumanandother resourcesfor the sector, inthe FY2007Budget
the Government increasedrecurrent expenditure for education from 19 to 21 percent o f total
recurrent expenditures (excluding debt service). Forty-eight percent o f this allocation is for
primaryeducation. Inorder to improvetransparencyand accountability inthe managemento f
public schools, the Ministry o f National Education and Professional Training (MENFP) has
adoptedthe following measuresstarting fiom the beginningofthis school year: (1) creation of
Parents Committees in public schools; (2) opening of a bank account for each school by
school directors and the deposit o f school fees and contributions inthis account; (3) right of
signature on such accounts for the school director, a representative o f parents and a
representative o f teachers with the first two signatures required for disbursement of funds
from such accounts; and(4) obligation o f school directors to submit to departmental directors
a financial quarterly report, and the requirement for departmental directors to submit quarterly
financial reports to the MENFP's GeneralDirectorate. While thesemeasureswill take time to
becomehllyoperational, they are positive developmentsto increasesector governance.

43. Arrangements are also been introduced to ensure transparency in the planned use
of public resources to fund tuition-free enrollment of out-of-school poor children in
private schools. Given that 90 percent ofHaiti's primaryschools are non-public, with donor
financial assistancethe Government plansto finance poor families to pay for the costs o f their
children's schooling through public capitation grants transferred to qualified non-public
schools. This will leverage the capacity o f the non-public sector to enroll a large number o f

audit by e x t e d auditors of the perfomncc of the FER, MTPTC mad MEF in implemnting Haitian road
maintenance activities, inaccordance with the roles ascribed to them and the processes described inArt. 37, 38
and 39 of the FERLaw published in Le Moniteur on July 24,2003, andwhose terms of reference were approved
bythe FERBoard.

                                                     22

new students incost-effective ways. However, becauseo f the weak normative and regulatory
capacity o f the Government, the quality of education in both the public and the non-public
sector is poor. To strengthen education sector governance, the authorities intend to create a
National Education Partnership Office (NEPO) to enhancepolicy dialogue, strategic planning
and operational coordination between the public and non-public sectors. The NEPO would
also act as the decision makingbody for the allocation o f capital grants to non-public schools.
The NEPO is expected to be governed by a Board o f Directors which will include
representatives from non-public education service providers, parents' associations, teachers'
unions, the Ministry of Finance andthe Ministryo fEducation, thus ensuring transparency and
oversight o f its capital grants allocation decisions. Legislation for the creation o f the NEPO
has been submittedto Parliament(this i s an EGRO IIprior action for Boardpresentation) and
its operating procedures havebeen drafted, with the input of the private sector and with the
assistance o f a LICUS grant. A companion National Partnership Fund would provide the
financing mechanism to channel public resources to non-public school management
committees for tuition-free enrollment o f out-of-school poor ~hildren.~'This would function
as a kindo f conditional in-kindtransfer, inthe sense that only families sending their children
to school would benefit from the subsidy. Rules governing access to the Fund will be
transparent and the non-public school committees, which include membership o fparents and
community members, will ensure that they are applied. This will be complemented by efforts
to enhance Government capacity for supervision and evaluation o f education quality provided
by both public and non-public schools. An IDA-financed Educationfor All project (US$25
million) is being prepared to provide financial and technical assistance for these efforts, in
coordination with other donors (CDB, EU, IDB, CIDA, USAID and UNorganizations). This
i s the first real sector governance structurewhich encompassesall key education stakeholders,
promoting not just effective dialogue between the public and non-public sectors but also
accountability and transparency in the use o f public education funds, particulhly those
channeledthrough the NationalPartnership Fund.

CIVIL SOCIETY MONITORING           OFGOVERNANCE          REFORMS

44. The Government plans to strengthen and institutionalize the mechanism recently
introduced for civil society to monitor its pragram of economic governance reforms.
This mechanism became operational in early 2006, following capacity buildingby both the
Government and civil society organizations. The mechanism is made up o f a diverse group o f
"notables" (Consultative Committee, CC) who review monitoring exercises carried out by
civil society organizations (CSOs) in the key reform areas o f economic governance and
provide feedback to ministries on where more progress needs to be made. The Consultative
Committee i s supported by a Secretariat. A summary of the first monitoringreport written by
civil society organizations has been prepared by the CC's Secretariat and published on the
MEFwebsite. A workshop with civil society organizations and key Government agencies and
ministries was held in June 2006 to review the experience in implementing the monitoring
mechanism and identify measuresto improve its effectiveness. A second workshop was held
inOctober 2006 to further strengthenthe mechanism andplanfor its activities aroundEGRO
II.Theworkshopsrenewedthecommitmentofthedifferent actorstoengaginginthe
monitoringmechrrriismto continueto provid
*'Schools   would be selectedby the multi-stakeholder, nine-member Board of Directors of the NEPO, based on
proposalssubmittedby schoolmanagementcommittees and accordingto poverty and educationbased criteria.

                                                     23

of the economic governance reform program. The recommendations o f the workshop aim to
strengthenthe internal hnctioning o f the mechanism, provide it with the necessaryresources
to disseminate more broadly to the public an independent analysis o f the EGRO reforms and
forge links with new actors, such as the Parliament and the staff in the Ministry of Planning
charged with leading the participatory process for the preparation o f a national poverty
reduction strategy (PRS). The Government also intends to continue to regularlypublishon
the MEF website, circulate to the media and and transmit to Parliament summaries of the
independent quarterly CSOs' monitoring reports on progress achieved on economic
governance (EGRO II's secondtranchecondition).

DECENTRALIZATION

45. The Government plans to gradually decentralize authority and public services to
ensurethat they are closer to the users and promote the inclusionandparticipation of all levels
of the population.    However, in the absence of a well-defined institutional framework
clarifjing the relationship between the central and local governments and the sources and
modalities for financing o f their operations, the establishment of localgovernments could lead
to fiscal instability. The Government plans to define a medium-term plan for gradual
decentralization which will require significant strengthening o f institutional capacity for
effective local Government functioning.


      v.IDA'SSUPPORTTOTHE          GOVERNMENT'S      ECONOMIC    GOVERNANCE    PROGRAM

LINKTOTHEINTERIMSTRATEGYNOTE

46. In supporting improved emciency, transparency and accountability in the use of
publicresources,the proposedgrant aims at promotinggood governance and institution
building, the pursuit of which is one of the strategic pillars of the ISN for Haiti. The
Bank strategy, as expressedinthe ISN scheduled to be discussed by the Executive Board in
January 2007, covers the period FY2007-OS and has two main pillars: deliver hope to the
population by helping the Government deliver quick wins in the provision of basic services
and job creation, and restore credibility in Haitian institutions by deepening reforms that
promote long-term good governance and institutional development. The Government has
askedIDA to continue its assistanceinthe economic governance area by supporting a second
phase of governance reforms. The proposed grant is the main instrument to support the
Government inits economic governancereform efforts inboth core central agencies as well as
at the sectoral level. The grant will also help improve the policy environment for increased
IDA andother donors' budget support andinvestmentlendingin key sectors.

COMPLEMENTARITYWITH OTHERBANKACTIVITIES

47. The proposed EGRO I1builds on the technical assistance currentlyprovidedto the
Government through the ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants
(US$2 million each) and the LICUS Economic Governance grant (UW.5 million).
These grants are providing support to improve public procurement, financial controls, budget
processes, anti-corruption efforts, human resource management, and transparency in the

                                                 24

management o f public enterprises. Assistance i s also beingprovidedby these grants for the
communication and outreach activities o f the Ministry o f Economy and Finance and for
supporting the civil society monitoring mechanism. Inaddition, the LICUS grant on Public-
Private Partnerships has provided assistance for the preparation o f draft legislation and
operating procedures for the NEPO.

48. The proposed EGRO I1also promotes governance reforms in sectors supported by
the ongoing IDA electricity and transport sector projects and two planned water and
education sector projects (see paras. 36, 38, 39 and 43). This is consistent with the 2002
Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) that recommended that "any strategy for a renewed
assistanceprogram for Haiti would have to start with measures to strengthen and to increase
the accountability and transparency o f the country's governing system, including the
management o f public expenditure".        Significant efforts are being made to coordinate
technical assistanceprovided by IDA in the above areas to reduce risks o f overlap, oversight
o f critical gaps, timeliness and constructive interface between the Government and different
T A providers.

COMPLEMENTARITYWITH OTHER DEVELOPMENT                 PARTNERPROGRAMS

49. The proposed EGRO I1complements or leveragesthe support of otherdevelopment
partners involved in the area of economic governance, primarily the IMF, the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), the EU and Canada. The specific areas for IDA support
have beenidentified inclose coordination and synergywith the technical and financial support
provided by the other development partners duringthe past two years o f governance reforms
and buildingon IDA'Scomparative advantageinthis area, Key donors involved inthe areao f
economic governance (IDB and IMF)will continue to be associatedduringimplementation o f
the program supportedbythe operation.

50. The IMF and the IDA staff have coordinated closely on the identification of the
respectiveinstitutions'areas offocus. An IMFthree-yearPRGFarrangement was discussed
by the IMFBoard on November 20,2006. The PRGF focuses on governancereforms inthe
areas o f revenue mobilization, financial sector strengthening and public financial
management. Also, the IMF and IDA staffs have workedjointly with the Government inthe
identification o fthe HIPC Completion Point triggers inthe area o feconomic governance.

51. IDB and IDA staffs coordinate regularly to ensure consistency and synergy in the
economic governance reforms supported by the two institutions. The IDB shares IDA'S
interest in strengthening government procurement and financial management capacity.
USAID and IDB collaborate with IDA in the area o f anti-comption efforts, and USAlD is
active in the area o f strengthening civil society and community media. IDB i s financing a
technical assistance grant to strengthen budgetaryinstitutions (whose project implementation
unit is shared with the IDA-financed EGTAG Iand 11to ensure coordination) and another
technical assistance grant to strengthen revenue collection agencies. IDA and IDB are also
jointly conducting a Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(see para, 59).      In addition, the IDB and the IMF have us@dpoli~ybwedloms and
macroeconomic programs respectively to encourage the authorities to reduce the use o f
comptes courants.

                                                25

52. IDA is also collaboratingwith other donors on governance reforms at the sectoral
level. Several donors are active in the transport sector in Haiti and have supported the
creation o f the FER. Notably, the IDB is assisting the MTPTC in buildinga road inventory,
which is a crucial decision tool to identifythe road segments where the FERshould be active.
The EU has also supported the strengthening o f the FER. In addition, there i s a close
partnership with the EUand the CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency inthe electricity
sector as these donors have inthe pastprovided financing for the accounting rehabilitation and
financial audit o f EDH and continue to support the reform of the electricity sector. The
European Union and the French Cooperation Agency have also shown interest in providing
budget support to Haiti against a sub-set o f the EGRO IIsupported economic governance
reforms.

LESSONSLEARNED PASTASSISTANCE
                     FROM

53. The design of the proposed development policy grant takes into account the lessons
learned from the implementation of EGRO I and the two Economic Governance
Technical Assistance Grants. The most important lessons from these experiencesand how
they havebeentaken into account for the preparation o fEGRO IIare detailed below.

54. The importanceof country ownership and partnership for programsuccess. The
significant and sustained progress made by the Government in the implementation o f
economic governance reforms resulted from its ownership and degree o f commitment. The
preparation o f the Interim Cooperation Framework by the Transitional Government in 2004
that precededthe design of the EGRO Iand of the Extended ICF and I-PRSP by the Prkval-
Alexis Government in 2006 (including its economic governance reform component) helped
strengthen the authorities' ownership and commitment to the reform program and to its
medium-tem sustainability. Also, the emphasis on communication and monitoring by civil
societyo fthese reforms has hadapositive impact on the Government's commitment to reform
implementation. The program supported by EGRO IIhas been designed by the Government
with IDA bringingto bear its technical expertise inselectedareas where it can add value.

55. The good fit of a two-tranche development policy grant instrument with the
Government's planned program of reform.                 The use of a two-tranche structural
adjustment operation for EGRO Iwas adequate in view o f the possible risks affecting the
operation, the period required by the Transition Government to implement the first phase o f
governance reforms and the need to test the Government's sustained commitment to the
reform program.     Indeed, all EGRO Isecond tranche conditions were met without any
waivers. Also, given the history o f "go-stop-go" policies o f donors in Haiti, the use of the
two-tranche approachprovided the Government with predictabilityfor KIA's support.

56. The need for significant technical assistance and realistic time frames for the
 implementationof governance reforms. Although the design of the EGRO Ianticipated
that weak institutional capacity represented a critical risk for the implementation o feconomic
 governance measures, experience during the last two years has highlightedhow severe this
problem is andthe significant amount o f technical assistance and realistic time fiames needed
 for implementation. Inthis respect, close coordination among donors in the provision of

                                               26

financial and technical assistance greatly contributed to the outcome o f the first phase o f the
Government's economic governancereform program. Also, intense IDA supervision, regular
(monthly) joint (Government and IDA) reviews o f program implementation and continuous
presence in the field helped addressed implementation bottlenecks in a timely way. This
confirms the importance o f the timely delivery o f technical assistance by the international
community inthe areas covered by the reformprogram and the needto continue to pursue the
reformprogram incrementally.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

57. The proposed operation builds on a substantial volume of analytical and advisory
work undertaken during 2004-2006 on public financial management and institutional
strengthening areas. First, with the assistance of IDA and other donors in 2004 the
Government prepared a report on economicgovernance issues andplanned reforms as partof
the Interim Cooperation Framework exercise that was conducted in 2004. Specifically, the
ICF thematic group on Economic Governanceidentifiedkey issuesaffecting HaitiPFMwhich
formed the basis o f the ICF agenda on Economic Governance. This analysis was updated
during the preparation o f the IDA-financed EGTAG Iand II.Second, a Country Economic
Memorandum completed in May 2006 identified ineffective institutions and weaknesses in
economic governance among key binding constraints to inclusive growth in Haiti and
presented recommendations to build institutional capacity o f core public agencies, strengthen
revenue, expenditure and human resource capacity and empower citizens to improve public
sector transparency and accountability. Third, a Public Expenditure Management Assessment
(Assessment and Action Plan, AAP) was preparedjointly by IDA/IMF staff in consultation
with the authorities inJune 2006 to evaluate existing systems o f public finance management
and identify additional areas where further reforms and technical assistance are needed.
Fourth, the 2006 Country Social Analysis pointed to the importance o f strengthening the
state's core institutional capacitiesto deliver basic public services.

58. The proposed operation also draws on complementary work on education, public
enterprises, road maintenance and debt management. The 2006 Social Protection
Strategy, among other recommendations, emphasized the importance of helping poor
households to finance their children's education, as a short-term poverty reduction measure
and to help poor families move out of poverty over the long-term. In the area of public
enterprises androadmaintenance, the Strengthening the Road Fund Note andthe Background
Notefor Preparation of the Management Contract of EDH (the latter ongoing) offer policy
recommendations for the reform o f two highly critical public sector agencies, as well as
valuable input for the identification of reform actions in the transport and electricity sectors.
Finally, a Debt Sustainability Analysis @SA) was conductedjointly by the IMF and IDA as
an input into the preparation o f the HPC Preliminary and Decision Point Documents. This
work i s complemented by technical assistance and advisory services provided by IDA staff
and consultants as part o f the implementation of EGRO I, Iand 11, and the LICUS
                                                               EGTAG
grants on economic governanceand education; and work done by the IMF,IDB, other donors
and agencies (such as Transparency International) in the areas o f public finance and
gavcmance, All of this analytical work has been drawn upon and incorporated by the
Government into its program o f economic governance reforms, and into the design o f the
proposedEGROII.

                                                27

59. IDA is currently undertakingadditional analyticalwork that will provide input for
the design of the nextphasesof the Government's economicgovernance reformprogram
and of possible future IDA support in this area A Public Expenditure Management and
Financial Accountability Review, PEMFAR (a joint PER, CFAA and CPAR), has recently
been launched jointly with IDB to review public expenditure use and budgetary procedure
issues and, buildingon the achievements to date, help define the next phaseso f the economic
governancerefom agenda.


            VI. THEPROPOSEDECONOMICGOVERNANCE              REFORMOPERATlON11

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION        AND POLICY AREAS

60. The development objectives of the proposed EGRO I1 are to support economic
recovery andpoverty reduction in Haiti by:

    a) promoting efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources
        through public financial managementandprocurement reforms;
    b) strengthening public sector's human resource management and employees'
         accountability;
    c) improving efficiency and transparencyinpublic infrastructure management; and
    d) supporting governance reforms in the education sector to promote accountability and
         transparencyinthe useofpublic education funds.

Inaddition, the grantwould help createaculture ofpublic participation inthemonitoringof
economic governance reforms. These efforts would have a positive impact on public service
provision, the environment for private sector activity, and the country's absorption capacity
for external resources.

61. The proposed development policy grant of SDR15.6 million (US$23 million
equivalent) would be disbursed in two tranches (of SDR 6.8 million or US'S10million
 equivalent and SDR 8.8 million or US$l3 million equivalent, respectively). The operation
 would support selected reform measures in the Government's program o f economic
 governance described in Section IV andin its LDP ( h e x 2) that are deemed essential to its
 successful implementation. The selection o f these actions was informed by the following
 considerations: (1) addressing the key recommendations o f the analytical and advisory work
 conducted recently on public finance and governance issues (see paras. 57-59); (2) avoiding
 overlapping conditionality by ensuring that they are not included in other donors' programs;
 and (3) promoting a balance between supply-side governance reforms (enhancing public
 finance and humanresource management inthe public sector) and demand-side measuresto
 shift the relationship between the state and society from one that had long been closed and
 discretionary to one that is transparent, rule-bound and participatory. Table 3 presentsthese
 actions - notably actions taken by the Government prior to Board presentation and additional
 measures for the release o f the second tranche o f EGRO II.The operation is oxpected to be
 executed over a period o f about 12 months. It should be noted that additional important



                                                28

          reform measures are being covered by other donors' programs,28notably the IMF under the
          PRGF, the IDBunder itspolicy basedlendingandjointly by IDA andthe IMFunderthe HIPC
          Initiative (as HIPC Completion Point triggers). A list of key reforms contained in the
          Government's economic governanceprogramwith the identification o fkey donors supporting
          themis presentedinAnnex 2.

          62. The proposed tranching is well suited to Haiti's current situation and needs. As
          indicated in para. 55, the use of a two-tranche instrument for EGRO Iworked well, with
          second tranche conditions met without any waivers.                         The Prkval-Alexis Government i s
           satisfiedthat this instrumentfits with its financingneeds andimplementationprogramandhas
          requested that the follow-on EGRO IIuse a two-tranche DPG instrument. The proposed
           tranchingprovides the Governmentwith predictability with regardto IDA'Ssupport; reduces
           transaction costs for the Government which would otherwise have to prepare and negotiate
           two operations during aperiodof 12-18months; andmatchesits budgetarycyclewith the first
           tranche disbursedinthe current Haitian FY and the second likely to be disbursedearly inthe
           next FY (which starts inOctober 2007). This would allow IDA to support the Government's
           program until the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, with a multi-year program of
           economic governance reforms, is prepared by the Government, thus allowing the use of
           annualprogrammaticdevelopmentpolicy grants afterwards. The ongoingPublic Expenditure
           Management and Financial Accountability Review preparedjointly by IDA andthe IDB will
           provide an input to the Government for the design of its multi-year program of governance
           reforms which it hasindicatedit intendsto preparein2007.

                 Table 3: Prior Actions for BoardPresentation and SecondTrancheConditions

    Reform          Prior Actions for Board           SecondTranche Coaditirrna
   Objectives             Presentation

Promote           Submission to Parliament o f  Satisfactoryexecution at*W 2ocl7 budge!    1n-yt"jrquarterly budget execurion
efficiency,       FY2007Budget,before           (and subsequent FYs' budgestct eonctudr:  reportsroutinelyd     e available to
transparency      beginningofFY and             no less than six months pn`               the public within one month ofthcir
and               reflectingkeypriorities of I- tranche release) inaccordanee             completion(as comparedIO about 3
accountability    PRSP.                         objectivesand approved all                 monthsduring1.YZW6).
inpublic
resourceuse       Completionby CSCCA,           Submissionto Parliamentof FY2008          In no more than 2 of the last 4
L
through public    submission to Parliamentand   Budget(and subsequent FYs' budgetsup      calendarquartersactual non-foreign
financiaI         publicationofaudit of         to and includingsuch years beginning      financed expendituredeviatedfrom
management        FY2003 Treasuryaccounts.      beforethe secondtranche release), before  budgetedexpenditureby no more
and                                             beginningofFY and that, inthe opinion     than 5-10 percent;disbursement of
procurement       Instructministnesand          of IDA, is in conformitywith the Program  no more than 10% of cumulative
reforms           governmentagencies,           objectives,reflectskey priorities of I-   non-salarycurrent public
                  through Prime Minister's      PRSP (and, when completed the PRSP)       expendituressinceOctober2006
                  Circular, to ensure           and includesan annex budget07 FER.        thoughcompfescowants
                  compliance with the 2005
                  Procurement Decree,           Strengthenbudgetcontrde fim                Extrema1audit reportson central
                  includingby establishing      submission to Parliamentof the             governmentconrioiidstedo p i i o n s
                  procurementcommissions.                                                  made nvtulable to the public through
                                                                                           ;tppropriatcmans within 9 months
                                                                                           of completed a d i t
                                                accounts.




           28 With the exception  of measures on decentralization where the Government's program is not fully developed
           yet.

                                                                   29

                                          preparedbyCXMP
                                          independmareview




                                                                          Kegimy includesai lrrdsp50 ?6of
                                                                          cntral government and slate
                                                                          enterpriseernpluycesworking in
                                                                          Port-au-Princeitndall new hires.




Improve         Completionby firnlsof                                     Ongoingtrmely publicotianof
efilciency and  internationalreputeof                                     monthlyeleeaicitymonitoring
transparency in FYZOOSfinancialaudits For                                 reports,
public         APN, EDHandTELEGU.
Infrastructure
management




Promote
rceounrability
and



rtsoummfor
8dUrtatiM




monitoringof`
reonomic
governance                                 discussionmthMEFon progress
reforms                                    achieved.




                                                          30

                              MI.OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTYAND SoClAL IMPACTS

63. The proposed operation is expected to have a significantpositiveimpact in terms of
poverty reduction, albeit indirectly, through strengthening the core functions and
processes of the state. As detailed in the 2006 Country Economic Memorandum and the
2006 Country Social Analysis, the development o fan effective andtransparent stateinHaiti is
vital for long term stability and economic growth, as well as to more effectively channel
public resources to poverty reduction. The improvements in public financial management,
audit and procurement supported by EGRO IIwould increase efficiency, transparency and
accountability in public resource use and reduce opportunities for rent-seekingin the public
sector. Furthermore, the reforms in the infrastructure and education sectors supported by
EGRO IIaim ultimatelyto enhancebasic service provision, which would have both a positive
social outcome (ifthe population receivesbetter services) andrepresenta strengthening o fthe
state, in its core role as provider o f basic services. Such improvements would also enhance
the environment for private sector activity and increase the country's absorption capacity for
external resources.

PARTICIPATORYARRANGEMENTS

64. The key reform measures supported by the proposed operation were presented in
the Government's I-PRSP and extended ICF as integral elements of its development
agenda. The extended ICF, presentedinJuly 2006 duringthe donors' conference hosted by
the Haitian Government in Port-au-Prince, included an assessment of economic governance
reform measures implementedduring 2005-2006 and key objectives of future reforms in this
area.    The program received strong endorsement from the donor community and
representatives&om the Haitiansociety, including the Parliament. Inaddition, the conference
was broadcast in its entirety on the national radio and T V andwas open to the media. The I-
PRSP, submitted to IDA and the IMF in September 2006 and discussedby both Boards on
November 20 and 21, respectively, details the major areas and reforms in the Government's
economic governance program for the coming year. The Government is in the process of
disseminating the I-PRSP..

IMPLEMENTATION,MONITORING EVALUATIONAND

65. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEW is the principalexecuting agency and
has responsibility for coordinatingand overseeing all aspects of the program, including
its monitoringand evaluation (M&E). Other ministries and agencies, notably the Human
Resources Coordination Unit in the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry o f Public Works,
the Ministry o f National Education and Professional Training, the CNMP, the ULCC and
three public enterprises (EDH, TELECO and APN) also have key roles in executing the
program componentsunder their respectivejurisdictions.

66. Capacity for M&E remains very limited, but technical assistance is in place to help
overcome this gap. The Government recognizes M&E to be an essential component of
policy implementation and the success of their program. Following the positive experienceof

                                                 31

EGRO I(see para. 56), the authorities will hold monthly supervision meetings (via
teleconferencing) using an implementation matrix identifj.lng pending reform measures,
outcome indicators, bottlenecks or pending problems, expected next steps and institutional
responsibilities for follow-up.           IDA will also monitor implementation through quarterly
supervision missions focusing on program outcomes and any unexpected policy reversals.
EGRO 11 supervision missions and the LICUS grant, EGTAG Iand IIsupervision missions
will also provide technical assistance and advisory services, in continued close coordination
with other donors.

                               Box 2: Good Practice Principles on~ o n d i ~ Q ~ ~ ~ i ~

Principle 1:Reinforce Ownership
The operation builds on the Extended Interim Cooperation Framework and the I-PRSP which were preparedby
the Government in 2006 and received strong endorsement from the donor community and representative from
Haitian society, including the Parliament (see para. 64). Following the successful transition, a track record of
policy implementation by the new Government is emerging and previous Bank support has seen steady policy
implementation. The Bank's assistancefocuses on core economic governancereforms (rather than sensitivepolicy
areas) and thus benefits frombroadsupport. Currently the Bank is preparinganalytical work (a Public Expenditure
ManagementandFinancial Accountability Review), which will provide inputto the Government for the designo f
future governancereforms andthe preparation ofthe full PRSP.

Principle 2: Agree upfront with thegovernmentand otherfmancialpartners on a coordinated accountability
framework
The Bank's support is summarizedina briefand focusedpolicy matrix. The matrix draws on the I-PRSP and the
ExtendedInterimCoordination Framework of the Government, which are the government's mainaid coordination
instruments to ensure consistency of donor interventions. IMF, IDB and IDA staff coordinated closely on the
identification of the respectiveinstitutions' areas offocus on economic governance(see para. 49-51). IDA is also
collaborating with other donors, notably EU, CanadaandFrance, ongovernancereforms.

Principle 3: Customizetheaccountabilityframework and modalitiesof Bank support to country circumstances
The government, based on the experience with EGRO I,has explicitly requesteda two-tranche operation. Bank
supportdoes not include any sensitivepolicy reforms (privatization, trade liberalization, price andsubsidy reform,
user fees) but insteaddraws oncore fiduciary andgovernanceanalysisintackling basic stategovernancefunctions
of public finance management and procurement, humanresource management, and infrastructure and education
sectors.

Principle 4: Chooseon& actions crirlcalfor achievingresults as conditionsfor disbursement
The operation supports selected reform measures in the Government's program o f economic govemance
described in its Letter of Development Policy that are deemed essential to its successful implementation. The
Bank's policy matrix uses a limited set o f conditions (15 in total, o f which 9 are for the second tranche).
Conditionality is focusedon critical steps, including adoption o f laws, for the governanceagenda. Conditions also
addressbasic transparencyissues.

Principle 5: Conducttransparentprogress reviews conducivetopredictableandperformance-basedfancial
support
As agreedwith the government, the two-tranche operationis timed to fit with the country's budget cycle (October-
September fiscal year) with a review o f second-tranche conditions expectedto take place at the beginning o f the
next Haitian budget year. This processshould allow for a predictable release ofthe secondtranche during the next
fiscal year, allowing incorporation ofIDA financing into this andnext year's budgets.The policy matrix contains a
selectednumber of outcome indicators, which will be assessedas part ofoperation implementation and are closely
linked to the supportedpolicy actions.




                                                         32

FIDUCIARYASPECTS,DISBURSEMENT AUDITING AND

67. In general, Haiti's fiduciary environment remains weak.             The summary of the
country's PFM performance presented above highlights outstanding weaknesses in spite o f
major achievements during the past few years and described in this document which
demonstrates that real progress is being made. The Government has committed itself to
continue implementing an adequateprogram o f PFM reform, which is beingsupportedbythis
operation. The proposed grantwould support critical actions to fbrther improve Haiti's public
financial management as reflected inthe policy matrix.

68. This operation would consist of a two-tranche grant of US$23 million equivalent.
The first tranche o f US$lO million equivalent would be disbursed upon grant effectiveness in
the third quarter o f the Haitian FY2007, and a floating second tranche o f US$13 million
equivalent upon completion o f follow-up reform actions (see Table 3), likely in early Haitian
FY2008.      The proposed operation will follow IDA's disbursement procedures for
development policy grants. IDA would disburse the foreign cmency funds proceeding from
the grant into a designatedaccount o f the Central Bank o f Haitithat forms part o fthe general
reserves o f the country. Once IDA formally notifies the grant recipient that a tranche i s
available for withdrawal, the Government may submit a withdrawal application for the grant,
so that the proceeds o f the tranche are deposited by IDA in the designated foreign currency
account to be used in accordance with the Grant Financing Agreement. Upon request fiom
IDA, the Ministryo fFinancewill provide written confirmation o fthe mentioned transactions.
Disbursements would not be linked to specific purchases. The proceeds of the Grant would
not be usedto finance expendituresexcluded under the Agreement.

69. The IMF completed a safeguards assessment of the CentralBank of Haiti (BRH) in
August 2005. The assessment identified anumber o fweaknesses, inparticular inthe areas o f
monetary management, financial reporting, internal audit and controls. The BRH has been
implementing some o f the recommendations and progress is being monitored by IMF staff.
Consultations with the IMF during the preparation o f the proposed grant have not revealed
any systemic vulnerability that caused to believe that the control environment into which the
&rant proceeds will flow is Qther than adequate. BRH's annual financial statements are
regularlyaudited by a private sector audit firm with an unqualifiedopinion, albeit with some
delays.

70. In accordance with IDA's policy and given the remainingweaknessesin the Central
Bank control environment, the proceeds of the grant will be disbursed in a designated
deposit account at the BRH. This deposit account would be audited on terms of
reference acceptableto IDA within four months o f first tranche disbursement or when 75%
of the first tranche b d s have been disbursed (whichever occurs earlier) and within four
months fiom the date o f IDA'Srequest after the second tranche disbursement, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association and by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The audit will certify that: (a) the exact sums
disbursed by IDA with respect to EGRO IIare paid into the designated foreign currency
Deposit Account o f the Government kept in the Central Bank exclusively for this purpose,
that forms part of the general reservesof the country, andno sums are kept inor paidinto the
Deposit Account other than those disbursed by IDA for this particular development policy

                                              33

grant; (b) all withdrawals from the foreign currency Deposit Account are for legitimate
budgetary purposes and not to finance expenditures on IDA'S negative list; and (c) the
financial statementso fthe Deposit Account are produced ina format acceptableto IDA.

ENVIRONMENTAL      ASPECTS

71. The reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not
considered likely to cause any significant immediate effects on the country's
environment, forests and other natural resources, but would indirectly contribute to
increasingthe environmentalsustainabilityof the energy sector. The reforms supported
aim primarilyto strengtheneconomic governanceat the national government level, and do not
directly mandate spending on infrastructure or other investments that could have an
environmental impact. Inthe area o f electricity generation, while the proposedoperation does
not directly hnd or require the award o fnew power purchase agreements, it does support the
use o f competitive processes and higher environmental standards inthe contracting o f m e r
power purchases. Such processes could have outcomes that involve the installation o f new
generators. To minimize negative impacts and to foster a dialogue through which local
environmental practices can be strengthened, contractors will be requiredto commission an
environmental impact study to identifjlmeasures necessary to protect the environment and
comply with IDA'Senvironmental recommendations, inaddition to Haiti's own requirements.
The government has already included wording to establish this requirement in the bidding
documents for the 30MWH PPA award process underway, and has agreedto include it inthe
documents for fiture rounds. Overall, EGRO II's promotion o f transparency and efficiency in
the use o f government resources in the electricity sector is part o f a larger process to
strengthen the electricity sector, which should have a positive environmental impact inHaiti,
inthat greater availabilityofelectricity would promote substitution o fwood fuels. Currently,
firewood and charcoal are used to meet roughly 70 percent o f Haiti's energy needs, which
constitutes a principal cause o fdeforestation andenvironmental degradation inthe country, as
detailed inthe ESMAP-fimded Strategy to alleviate thepressure offuel demand on national
woodfuel resources(2005).

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

72. The proposed operation will be carried out in an environment that presents
significant risks. The four main broad risks are weak institutional capacity, weakened
Government ownership, a deterioration o f the security situation and fiduciary risks.
Additional risks exist associatedwith specific reforms supported by this operation. However,
these risks canbe partlymitigated.

73. Institutionalcapacity constraints may affect the speed of implementationof reforms
supported by the proposedoperation. Inadequatecapacity could stall the reform agendaif
qualified Haitianprofessionals are not attractedor retained in sufficient numbers inthe public
sector, particularly in the areas o f financial management and procurement. The ongoing
EGTAG Iand IIoperations and the LICUS grant on economic governance are providing
extensive technical assistance:for the ~     ~   p     of the~measures~supportedtby EGRO~II.i
                                                       l         ~          ~        ~          ~ ~
IDA staff is also coordinating closely with other development partners (notably the IMFand
IDB)that are providingtechnical assistanceinthe areas relatedto the proposedoperation.

                                               34

74. The success of policies supported by this operation will depend on continued
Government ownership of the economic governance reformprogram. This commitment
may waiver if companion efforts made by Government and donors to bring about economic
recovery and social service improvement fail. Also, resistance from vested interests that
profit from the current lack o f institutional capacity and controls may handicap some aspects
o f the proposed program. In addition, requests for politicizing the hiring and firing o f
personnel in public enterprises could affect the success o f the reform program. In the
extended ICF and the I-PRSP, and through the actions it has already implemented, the new
administration has expressedits strong commitment to pursue and deepen the reformprogram
initiated by the Transition Government. In addition, the proposed prior actions and triggers
focus on areas inwhich the Government has expressedownership. Also, the proposedEGRO
IIwouldsustaintheongoingeffortstofosterawarenessandcreatedemandamongcivil
society for economic governance reforms and establish the appropriate relationships with
Parliament's oversight mechanisms.          The forthcoming PRSP process also provides an
opportunity to foster national consensus across the Haitian society and among Government
representativeson amedium-termreform agenda.

75. A deteriorationof the security situation could undermine macroeconomic stability
and the economic governance reform program supported by the proposed operation.
Slow progress in addressing the most pressing social and economic problems could lead to
instability in volatile areas and adversely affect security conditions, the business climate and
macroeconomic management. The Government is pursuing efforts to improve security.
Notably, it has recently launched a disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR)
program targetinggang members. This will complement ongoing efforts to reform the police
and the judiciary with the support of the UN (MINUSTAH), the O M , CIDA and other
bilateral donors. The delivery o f visible improvements in the living conditions inthe shanty
towns o f Port-au-Prince through the Government Programme d `AppaisementSocial, which is
being supportedbyseveraldonors including IDA, will also be critical to improve security.

76. As indicatedin the above seetian on fiduciary assessment, financialcontrols inHaiti
are weak and the operation's fiduciary risk is significant. However, this risk can be
mitigated. Improvement in fiduciary standards i s a central objective o f the program and
continued IDA assistanceinthe areaso fpublic finance managementandpublic administration
will help raise these standards and improve budget implementation processesover time. The
ongoing Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review will help the
Government identify further reforms to consolidate gains made under this operation.
Furthermore, additional fiduciary arrangements have been built into the design o f EGRO II
given the fiduciary risks identified. EGRO IT funds will be disbursed by IDA in a designated
deposit account, which will be subject to audit inaccordancewith IDA'Sguidelines.

77. Additional risks exist associated with specific reformssupported by this operation.
First, there i s a risk that a change inpolitical commitment, the emergence o f a natural disaster
or an emergency may lead to an increase in the use o f comptes courants. The hiring and
training o f staff involved inbudget execution has reduced elapsed time between fund request
and find release and thus limits the need for reverting to comptes courants for political

                                                  35

expediency or, to a certain extent, during emergency situations. Ongoing IDA technical
assistanceis also supporting the further streamlining o fbudget execution proceduresto fbrther
reduce expenditure processing times. Second, involving civil society in the monitoring o f
economic governance reforms faces the risk of not reaching a broad enough sector of civil
society and thus creating problems o f credibility and lack o fcapacity on both the Government
andcivil society side. These risks are beingreducedbybuildingcapacities andknow how for
using specific tools for increased transparency and information, creating institutionalized
mechanisms that engage civil society broadly, and disseminating more broadly the results of
this monitoring. The Government i s also committed to enhance its communication efforts on
economic governance reforms to enhancetransparencyand accountability. Third, the planned
governancemeasuresinthe education sector to enhanceprivate school quality and introduce a
financial instrument to channel public funds for poor children enrollment face the risk of
commitment fiom both the MENJS and private sector educational organizations, and of
transparency and accountability inthe allocation and use o f public hnds. Both o f these risks
are mitigated by the commitment shown by the Govement in submitting legislation to
Parliament for the creation o f the NEPO. IDA also plans to provide technical and financial
assistance to the MENJSfor ensuringthat the financial instrument to channel public funds for
poor children enrollment in non-public schools has transparent beneficiary targeting and
selection, and an effective monitoring mechanism.

78. In IDA's assessment, the potentialbenefits of the proposedoperationoutweigh the
residual risks and warrant IDA's assistance for implementing critical reforms and policy
actions ina coordinated fashion with other donors, while supporting risk mitigation actions to
maximize the sustainability o f the reformagenda.




                                               36

ANNEX 1: ECONOMICGOVERNANCE MEASURES   IMPLEMENTED BY THE TRANSITION
GOVERNMENT

ANNEX2: LETTER DEVELOPMENT
              OF            POLICY

ANNEX3: REFORM MEASURESSUPPORTEDBYEGROIANDEGROI1

ANNEX4: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE

ANNEX5: COUNTRYATA GLANCE

ANNEX6: KEYECONOMIC  INDICATORS

ANNEX7: KEYEXPOSURE INDICATORS

ANNEX 8: TIMETABLEFORKEY PROCESSINGEVENTS




                                  37

                ANNEX1: ECONOMICGOVERNANCE                  MEASURES        IMPLEMENTED
                                 BYTHE TRANSITIONGOVERNMENT



During 2004-2006, the Transition Government made significant progress in the
implementation of economic governance reforms. These included actions to improve the
legal framework, create and strengthen core public institutions, and enhance financial
management processes and procedures. This annex details reforms implemented duringthis
period in the following areas: (i)budget formulation, execution and reporting; (ii)                    public
procurement; (iii)public enterprise management and road maintenance; (iv) human resource
management; and (v) civil society monitoringo feconomic governancerefoms.

Improvements in. budget formulation, execution and reporting. Prior to 2004, the
Government had at times operated without approved budgets or with budgets approved late
into the fiscal year. Procedures for budget formulation and execution were weak and a
significant share o f public resources was channeled through multiple comptes courunts held
by individual ministries and used n~n-transparently.~~ addition, internal controls were
                                                                     In
impaired by the lack o f a well-structured accounting system or external audits of Government
budgets.

Measuresimplemented by the Transition Government to address these weaknesses include: (i)
preparation andadoption of the budgets for FY2005 and FY2006before the start o f the fiscal
year and inaccordancewith the new Organic BudgetLaw3' and new budget classification and
chart o f accounts; (ii) alignment of budget allocation and spending with government
                          better
priorities defined in the 2004 Interim Cooperation Framework; (iii)                 greater transparency in
budget preparation and execution through regular public dissemination of key budget
allocations and execution information on the MEF website (www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht);
(iv) preparation of the FY2006 budget according to the new budget classification; (v)
expansion o f the automated system for budget management (SYSDEP) from 5 ministries and
units to 17, which helped reduce time for expenditure processing; (vi) better monitoring of
budget execution which resulted, inter alia, in a significant reduction in discretionary
spending through ministerial comptes courunt~;~'            and (vii) strengthening the external audit
function through a decree on the organization and functioning o fthe supreme audit institution,
the Cow Supkrieure des Comptes et Du ContentieuxAdministrative (CSCCA). In addition,
the difference between budgeted and actual expenditures has been reduced, transactions are
promptly accounted for in the main accounting system, the Government has caught up with
the delays in the preparation o f the Treasury accounts and a decree was adopted to create a
General Finance Inspectorate responsible for ensuring the correct functioning o f internal
controls inthe administration.


29The ''comptes courunts"(Ministries' accounts) were originally meantto be usedfor unexpectedandnon-
budgetedneeds such as for assistance to those affectedby a natural disaster or unexpectedtravel bypolicy
makers.
30Inadditionto establishingthe outlines ofa newbudgetaryprocess, theLawmandatesthe creationofanew
accountingsystem, zuid crearrs thepositionof intern1ex-antecomolftm, a new internat auditing office anda
cadre of accountantsinthe public sector.
31The percentageo fnon-salarycurrent public expenditures disbursedthroughcomptes courants was reduced
from 62 percentduring October 2003-March 2004 to less than 10percent since September2004.

                                                      38

Improvement of public procurement system. In the early 2000s, public procurement
operated under a 1989 decree which had not been fully implemented and had several flaws.
Sole-sourcecontracts and unadvertised biddingwere the norm. At the beginning o f 2005, the
Government adopted a new Procurement Decree to establish the National Commission for
Public Procurement (CNMP), affirmthe use o f competitive procurement methods as the norm
and introduce more effective procurement controls inthe public administration. The creation
o f the CNMP, which is now operational, has strengthened the institutional framework for
procurement and brought much needed oversight to an increasing number o f public
procurement processes. An international procurement consulting firm hiredin early 2006 is
helpingthe CNMP to performanextendedrangeo fits mandatedfunctions, inparticular those
associated with strengthening procurement capacity in line ministries and drafting enhanced
legislation to regulate the procurement hction. Finally, advances in transparency were
achieved through the preparation of standard bidding documents for public works and the
publication o f lists o f government contracts awarded and a supplier database, both available
through the CNMP website.

Stepping up of anti-corruption efforts. In2004, the Transition Government ratified the
OAS Inter-American Convention against Corruption and created an Anti-Corruption Unit
(Unit6 de Lutte Contre la Corruption ULCC) as an autonomous entity under the MEF. In
                                        -
2005, the Unit launched a comprehensive diagnostic survey (households, public, private and
the NGO sectors) of the state o f governance and the perception and experiences o f the
population with corruption in Haiti as an input to the design o f a national anti-comption
strategy. The survey was completed in December 2006 and its results will be disseminated
through publicworkshops at the national level inthe comingmonths.

Pursuing efficiency and transparency in the management of public enterprises and the
Road Maintenance Fund.            As part of its efforts to improve the management and
transparency o f key public enterprises, and with the support o fdonors, in2006 the Transition
Government hired international audit firms on a competitive basis to undertake financial
audits for the national port authority (APN), TELECO and the national electricity company
(EDH). It also launched the process of hiring firms for the financial, technical and
administrative audits o f the metropolitan water utility(CAMEP). An audit was also planned
for the airport authority (AAN)but donor fbndinghas not been available for this. Accounting
rehabilitations were also launched for TELECO and EDH. In 2005-06, the Transition
Government also took a numbero fmeasuresto strengthenthe RoadMaintenance Fund(Fond
d'Entretiens Routier-FER),      created in 2003 as the cornerstone o f Haiti's road maintenance
 strategy. The FER now has reacheda basic level o f institutional capacity with the recruiting
o fkeystaffandthe definition ofits operational procedures.

 Humanresourcemanagement. As a first step inan effort to increaseefficiency inthe use of
humanresourcesinthe public sector, anew civilservice law andalaw for the organization o f
the central administration were enactedby decree inJuly 2005. Also, a censuso femployment
 in selected ministries was completed, partly on an attendance list basis. In addition, civil
 servants' wages were increased by 30 percent in 2004, consistent with the macroeconomic
program, to mitigate the erosion o freal salaries due to highinflationinprevious years.

 Civil society mechanism to monitor economic governance measures. In 2005, thc
 Transition Government introduced a mechanism for civil society to monitor its program o f

                                               39

economic governance reforms. This mechanism became operational inearly 2006, following
capacity buildingbyboth the Government and civil society organizations. The mechanism is
made up o f a plural group of "notables" who review monitoring exercises carried out by
NGOsinthe keyreformareas o feconomic governanceandprovide feedback to ministries and
agencies on where more progress needs to be made. A summary o f the monitoring report
preparedby civil society organizations has beenpublished on the MEFwebsite.




                                             40

                                                                                                      ANNEX 2

                  REPUBUOUED'HAiTl


                    MINISTERE
DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES




No.................DEEBM/OSO-dec. 06                                        Port-au-Prince,le               ........................


                        Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy ofthe GovernmentofHaitifor the
                               EconomicGovernanceReformOperation(EGRO11)


                   Mr.PaulWolfowitz
                   President
                   TheWorldBank
                   1818HStreet,NW
                   Washington, D.C. 20433


                   Dear Mr.Wolfowitz,

                   1.   This letter of development policy sets out the program that the Government of Haiti
                   intends to implement, with the aim of building on the reforms in economic governance
                   that have been enacted inthe course o f the past two years. These reforms will be pursued
                   inthe areasofstrengtheningdemocratic institutions andimprovingtransparency inpublic
                   resource management. In this letter we outline the program for the medium term. In
                   prYticular, we describe the economic governance reform measures that we intend to
                   implement, with the aim o f creating a favorable environment for the reconstruction of the
                   state and the creation of the wealth that is necessary for improving the living conditions
                   of the population and for combating poverty. To implement this economic governance
                   program, the Government o f Haitirequests the financial support of the World Bank.

                                           I.Haiti'seconomicandfinancialsituation

                   2.   Two decades o f political instability have taken a heavy toll on Haiti. The economic
                   growth needed to improve the population's standard of living has been hampered. The
                   2000-2004 period was marked by negative GDP growth in real terms (-1.2 percent on
                   average), a highinflation rate, and enormous deficits inthe budget and external accounts.
                   At the macroeconomic level, the country suffered from great uncertainty regarding the
                   amount of public resources available for investments needed for social and economic
                   development, international aid resources were channeled primarily to humanitarianrelief
     DEC 112sfiz
                                                              41

                                   204, Palaisdes Ministbres, Rue Mgr. Guilloux0TBI.:299-1700/ 2994701

mostly through non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and inflows o f foreign direct
investment were insignificant compared with those received by neighboring Caribbean
countries. Social indicators reveal a very alarming situation: the illiteracy rate remains
high despite schooling efforts and access to healthcare, education, drinking water, and
electricity is very limited. Internal and externaI imbalances, exacerbatedby political and
social tensions, have put a brake on growth and, as a consequence, have created
additional uncertainties about the nature and temporal profile of economic policy
directions. The reconstruction effort, the strengtheningof public institutions and good
governance, among the other challenges involved in pursuing durable development, are
necessaryconditions for restartingeconomic growth.

3.   In FY2004, the economy was strongly affected by conflict and natural disasters,
contracting by 3.5%. The economic and social situation, though less than satisfactory in
every regard, nevertheless showed a positive performance in FY2005 and FY2006, with
resumption in growth. Policies pursued between 2004 and 2006 led to economic
stabilization and an improvement in economic governance, particularly in .the
managemento fpublic expenditure.


                          Table 1. Haiti: Key Economic and FinancialIndicators
                                      (fiscal year ending September 30)

                                                     2003     2004    2005    2006   2007   2008      2009
                                                             (Actual)         (Prel)     (Projections)
                            (Annualpercentage change, unless othenvise indicated)
GDPat constantprices                                    0.4     -3.5    1.8      2.5  4.0      4.0      4.0
RealGDPper capita                                      -1.7     -5.4   -0.2      0.8  2.2      2.3      2.3
Consumer prices (end-of-period)                        37.8    21.7    14.8    12.4    8.0     8.0      7.0
                                              (In percent of GDP)
CentralGov. overallbalance (incLgrants)                -3.5     -2.4   -0.7     -1.4  -1.9    -1.9     -1.9
                        (Annual changes inpercent of beginning-ofperiod broad money)
BroadMoney(incl. foreigncurrencydeposits)              39.8      9.1   16.6      6.6  17.9   11.0      10.3

                             (Millions of US.dollars,untem othenvlsc indicated)
Net InternationalReserves                              38.8     54.5   70.6    125.7
Grossreserves                                         157.1    207.4  228.5   330.8
     Inmonthsofimportsoffollowingyear                    1.2     1.4    1.4      1.8   2.1     2.5      2.8
Sources: ;Bankofthe RepublicofHaiti; MinistryofEconomyand Finance.

 4.   Despite the volatile security situation, fiscal receipts increased by 30 percent in
 FY2005. This growth trend was maintained inFY2006, with fiscal receipts increasingby
 24 percent over the previous year. Public expenditures were realigned to allow the
 Government to address urgentproblems such as restoring public provision of electricity,
 strengthening security, and improving the population's access to basic social services.
 The budget deficit was estimated at 1.4 percent of GDP for FY2006, and was entirely
 financed by external aidwithout havingto resort to central bank credit.




                                                   42

5.   Despitethe rise in the price of fuel, inflation fell significantly in Haiti. The annual
rate o f inflation fell from 37.8 percent inFY2003 to 21.7 percent in FY2004, then to 12.4
percent in FY2006. This lowering of inflation is due to a significant reduction in
monetary financing and to the restrictive monetarystance of the Central Bank.

                     11.Thernedium-term strategy of the Government

6.   The medium-term strategy of the Government was set out in the General Policy
Declaration of the Prime Minister presented at the time o f his ratificationto the Chamber
of Deputiesandthe Senateo f the Republic, the InterimPovertyReduction StrategyPaper
(I-PRSP), and the working paper for the International Conference on Haiti's Economic
andSocial Development ofJuly 2006. The Government has set three conditions bywhich
to determine the success for its medium-term strategy: i)delivering basic services to the
entire country; ii)aligning population growth with growth in national production and of
the country's capacity to provide a sustainable standard of living to all its citizens; and
iii)maintainingorderandsecuritytoensureprotectionofpeopleandassets.Takingthese
conditions for success into account, our medium-termstrategy i s built around four axes:
political governance, the reconstruction o f the state (economic governance), economic
recovery, and access to basic servicesto the population.

    1. PoliticalGovernance

7.   Through strengthening political governance, the Government aims to improve the
security climate and strengthen democratic institutions. To this end, the Government
plans to strengthen the Haitian National Police; make the justice system more effective;
launch the Disarmament, Demobilization, and Reintegration (DDR) program; and
improve relations betweenthe executive andlegislative branches.

8.   The fight against all sort o f criminal activity and the reduction of insecurity,
primarily in the capital, constitute a constant concern for the Government. The
Government intends to achieve this objective through an increase in the manpower and
training capacity o f the Haitian National Police, as well as an improvement in its
equipment and means of transport and the construction and/or rehabilitation of all its
regional offices.

9. The effectiveness of the police force depends on having a credible judicial system,
able to try those charged within the timeframe dictated by law. The approachadoptedby
the Government aims to democratize the justice system, by bringing it closer to those
charged by making services available throughout the country and restoring the
confidence o fthe population ina credible and transparentjustice system. To achievethis,
branches o f the Tribunaux de Pair et de Parquets will be created in communal sections
 and the Justices-At-Large program will be revived. The vacant posts inthe Magistrature
will be filled. The new jurisdictions created recently (Miragohe, Croix-des-Bouquets)
will be made operational. Courts specializing inmoney laundering, drugs and narcotics,
 kidnapping, terrorism andcorruption will be created.




                                             43

10. The last link inthe penal chain, the penitentiary system, is also essential. This system
i s faced with major difficulties that prevent it from properly respecting detainees' rights
and affect its credibility. Prolonged preventive detention, unjustified incarcerations,
overcrowding and infrastructure in an awful state are the main characteristics of the
penitentiary system at present. Actions required to correct this situation include
increasing investments to rehabilitate existing penitentiaries, relocating the Port-au-
Prince central prison, andtraining administrative personnel.

11. The fight against crime would not be limited to just police or military actions. It is
also necessary to pursue other initiatives likely to drive an improvement in the material
conditions o f the population living in sensitive zones. These initiatives stem from the
DDR, another element o f the struggle against banditry and insecurity. This program,
which is no longer in the hands of the Haitian National Police, envisions undertaking
large-scale actions relating to living conditions, popular cantines, sanitation, the
development of public spaces, and the provision of electricity. These initiatives aim to
create an environment conducive to putting young people, in particular, beyond the
influence o f organized gangs, as well as all those who rely on violence to survive. The
Programme d'Appaisement Sociale (PAS) has also been designed along these lines. It
aims to create jobs for the specific benefit of the marginalized population. The program
includes three components: immediate action concerning staff dismissed from the civil
service and state agencies, a minimumpackage of intervention in each o f the country's
 140communes, andthe settlement ofsalary arrears owed to various state employees.

 12. With regard to democratic institutions, the objective is to invigorate those that are
already in place and create others that do not yet exist. The focus will be on the correct
functioning of Parliament, the cornerstone of the vitality o f Haiti's democratic system.
Technical assistance will be provided to Parliament through making national and
international resources available to it, with the aim of helping parliamentarians in the
consideration of bills submitted by the executive for ratification, the arrangement and
equipment of temporary premises before the erection of a new legislative building, to
pennit the elected officials to attend to their tasks adequately, and so that the different
 commissions o f the two chambers can function nonnally. Resources will be allocated to
 Pdiatnmt BO that it may strengthen its Secretariat with respect to the codification of
 bills, decrees andlaws already ineffect, as well as the establishmento fits archives.

     2. Economic recovery

 13. The Government's strategy for economic recovery aims principally to maintain
 macroeconomic stability, reduce poverty, and create the conditions for continued and
 sustainable growth through private investment and job creation. Following the 2006
 elections, the Government holds a strong mandate from the people to implement an
 ambitious program of reforms, including those aimed at reestablishing security and
 fightingcorruption. The Government is committedto buildonthe results obtainedbythe
 previous team in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization, governance improvement and
 transparency inthe execution o fpublic expenditures.




                                             44

14. For the next three years (FY2007-2009), the Government has defined its priorities
througha medium-ternprogramagreedwith the InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF). For
FY2007, this program assumes growth of 4 percent, an inflation rate of less than 10
percent andan increase innet foreignreservesequivalentto US$156million.The efforts
to be madeby the tax and customs agencies inthe fight against fraud, under-billingand
tax evasion will allow revenues to reach 10.2 percent, against 9.7 percent the previous
fiscal year. Withthe resultingincrease inexpenditures, a budgetdeficit (includinggrants)
of -1.9 percent of GDP will be recorded. This will be entirely financed from external
resources, without resorting to advances from the Central Bank. The lifting of this
constraintwill contributeto improvingthe effectiveness of monetarypolicy inthe fight
againstinflation.

15. The achievement of the growth projection will trigger an almost proportionate
increase in imports o f goods and services, As a result, a deterioration in the current
account of the balance of payments and an increase in financing needs are expected.
Some of these resources will be provided by the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative. On the basis of data from September 2005, Haiti qualified
for debt reliefunder the Enhanced HIPC InitiativeinNovember 2006. Haiti will benefit
from debt relief of US$140million innet presentterms, or US$212.9 million innominal
terms. Oncethe decisionpointis reached, additionalresourcesof aboutUS$243.3 million
in net value terms (or US464.4 million in nominal terns) will be obtained from the
MultilateralDebtReliefInitiative.

16. Electricitybeinga determiningfactor in achievingthe economic growth targets, the
Governmenthas designated itas aprioritysector. Itintends to useit as one ofthe ways to
improvethe standard of livingofthe populationby improvingthe supply of electricityto
all the main cities of the regions in the country. To this end, it will undertake an
institutionalrestructuring of the national electricity company (klectricitd d'Hdri-EdH)
and will launchan invitationto tender for a management contract for the company. The
Government also plansto construct, througha contract with a privateoperator for which
an invitationto tender has alreadybeenpublished, an oil-fueledpower stationof 30 MW.
This investment will allow the national Treasury to save part of the US5 million of
resources transferred each month to EdH for electricity production. Investments will be
made for the rehabilitation and extension of the energy transmission and distribution
networks.

 17. To support an increaseinthe addedvalue ofthe agricultural sector, the government's
actions will focus on improving access to credit and basic inputs for fanners, the
rehabilitationof agriculturalinfrastructure and securityof tenure. All these actions must
strive for growthinthe productionof staple foods inorder to increase the food supply as
quicklyas possible.

 18. Regarding the industrial sector, the emphasis will be on the expansion of public
services and economic and social infrastructure outside of the Port-au-Prince
metropolitanarea inorder to promotethe creation ofindustrialzones.




                                           45

19. The bad state o f road infkastructure is a negative factor for the growth of the
industrial, agricultural, and service sectors. Aside from the construction andrehabilitation
o f farm roads that could generate thousands o fjobs, the construction of five road axes i s
planned: Cayes-Jeremie, Miragoane-Petit Trou de Nippes, Gonaives-Port de Paix,
Mirebalais-Hinche andHinche-Cap Haltien. This will contribute to the interconnection of
national roads, the aim beingto link all the principal towns and communal sectionsof the
country and reduce the production costs o f goods and services to make them more
competitive. For ports and airports, measures will be taken to strengthen their
institutional capacity and improve their management. Investments in dredging,
beaconing, and repairs for the port of Port-au-Prince and the rehabilitation o f the airport
runway will be done in order to improve the safety o f passengers and to conform to
international noms and standards.

20. The environment is one o fthe concernsofthe Government since, ifit is not managed
adequately, it can negatively influence the performance of other sectors, notably the
agricultural sector. First of all, the government intends to pursue the execution o f the
Environmental Action Plan. Next, the Government will focus its actions on the fight
against the degradation o f soil and water resources, the identification andmanagementof
waste discharge sites, the management o f dangerous chemical products, and the
protection o f springs for drinking water provision inthe face o f unchecked urbanization.
The participation o f communes and communal sections will not be overlooked in
environmental, risk, and disaster management. Management tools will be designed and
madeavailable to them.

     3. Access to basic services

21. One o f the principal concerns o f the Government is makingavailable basic services,
including water and sanitation, education, health, etc. to all sections o f the population, no
matter where itis located. Withthis inmind, the Government aims to intervene ineach of
the 140communes ofthe country.

22. In the water and sanitation sector, the efforts to be undertaken to ensure that the
populationhas access to water of sufficient quality and quantity are considerable, given
 the level of degradation o f the watersheds, the overpumping o f groundwater and the
 sedimentation o f rivers and lakes. To makeprogress, the government plans to draw on its
 experience with community participation in the management o f piped drinking water
 systems in urbanand m a l areas. At the same time, a wide-ranging reform of the sector
 will be implemented inorder to definethe roles ofthe various actors inthe sector. Also, a
 new legal framework is beingelaborated. It envisages to separatethe functions of service
 regulation and production, promote sector decentralization and partnership between the
 public andprivate sector. A draft law envisaging the disengagemento f the public sector
 inthe production and distribution of water will be submitted to Parliament. The law also
 envisions the creation o f two institutions, one for the regulation of the sector and the
 other for the managementofwater networks.




                                               46

23. The management o f this sub-sector is closely linked to that o f the environment. All
the actions that will be undertaken in the area o f environmental management will
contribute to improving the quantityand quality o f water available.

24. The strategy of the Government in the health sector centers on the fight against
infectious diseases, such as HIV, and on reducing maternal, infant and child mortality.
This will be effected through mass vaccination campaigns for newborns and school-age
children. To assure access to healthcare for the population, particularly those living in
disadvantagedareas, a health center will be constructed in each commune and communal
section that is not already covered. As planned in the PAS, 55 communes will receive a
dispensary hospital. The rehabilitation of existing health centers and hospitals is also
planned. These structures will be supplied with equipment, medicines, and other
provisions necessaryfor their successfulfunctioning.

25. Actions in the education sector will be directed toward the strengthening o f its
governance and improvements in quality and access by the population to services
provided. Initiatives are designed to ensure universal schooling and aim, among other
things, to strengthen the technical capacities of the Ministry o f National Education and
Professional Training (MENFP) by the training o f personnel and recruitment of qualified
humanresources, to reinforce the partnershipbetween the public andnon-public sectors,
to improve the management of school establishments, to organize continuing education
sessions for active teachers, to improve learning and teaching conditions, to expand
teacher training and school support centers (&coles Fondamentalesd'Application-Centre
d'Appui Pkdugogique-EFACAP) with the goal o f one EFACAP per commune, and to
construct and rehabilitate schools in every commune o f the Republic to enable every
child to attend school.

 111.Theeconomicgovernanceprogram,for whichWorldBanksupport is requested

26. An analysis o f institutions operating in the area of economic governance reveals the
profound weaknesses in this sector. This situation has had the effect of hampering
economic growth and poverty reduction, increasing corruption, and Iimiting the
population's access to basic social services. In short, the situation has led to a poor
allocation o f resources inthe economy. The actions selected ininstitutional strengthening
andundertaken duringFY2005 and 2006 inthe context o fEGRO Ito limitthe impact of
this situation resulted inthe following achievements: (i) invigorationof theNational
                                                           the
Commission for Public Procurement (Commission Nationale de Passation des Marchb
Publiques --CNMP); (ii)the strengthening o f the Anti-Corruption Unit (Unit&de Lutte
 Contre la Comption-ULCC);        (iii)the creation ofa corps ofpublic accountantsand
financial comptrollers; (iv) the strengthening of the Road Maintenance Fund (Fond
d'Entretiens Routier--FER); and (v) the implementation of a Civil Society monitoring
mechanism to track the progress o f economic governancereforms.

27. The results obtained in the area o f economic governanceover the course of the past
two years werejudged to be satisfactory, butthe consolidation ofthese achievements and
the challenge o f improving the performance o f economic governance institutions in the
 area of service provision can only be achieved in the medium tern. This explains the


                                            47

commitment o f the Government to pursue the reforms that make up the economic
governance program, which includes eight pillars: 1) public financial management; 2)
public procurement; 3) management of public enterprises; 4) human resource
management; 5) the fight against corruption; 6) governance inthe education sector; 7) the
mechanism for civil society monitoring of reforms; and 8) the strengthening of the
financial sector.

     A. Public financial management

28. In the area o f budgetary procedures great improvements have been obtained. Two
significant actions were taken with the aim o f improving transparency in budget
execution. The first is shown by the availability, since October 2004, o f a budget at the
beginningo f each fiscal year, which puts an end to the cycle of delayed budgets. The
second is reflected bythe drastic reduction in spending through comptes courants, which,
given the size these had attained, had made the tracking and control o f expenditures
difficult. During the period o f October 2003-March 2004, the percentage o f public
expenditures excluding salaries and investments passing through the comptes courants
was 62 percent. Control measuresput inplaceover the course o fthe past two fiscal years
to limit recourse to this mechanism by sectoral ministries-notably     throughlimitingthe
number of current accounts to one per public institution-have      ledto a reduction inthis
proportion to less than 10 percent since the last quarter o f FY2004. In addition, the
external audit function was strengthenedby the adoption o f a decree on the organization
and functioning of the supreme audit institution (Cour Sup&ieure des Comptes et du
ContentieuxAdministratif--CSCCA).

29. Despite these results, an assessment of the public expenditure managementsystemof
Haiti, conducted through joint technical assistance by the M F and the World Bank,
revealed certain remaining weaknesses.' These include: a) the need to further strengthen
the mechanisms o f internal control by putting inplace the General Finance Inspectorate
(Inspection G&n&zle des Finances--1GF);b) the need to expand SYSDEP to all public
institutions that have relations with the Treasury; c) the need to pursuethe reorganization
of the supreme audit institution in order to strengthen the external audit function. The
report of the mission of experts also highlighted weaknesses in the area of budget
preparation, such as the lack o f a manual for the formulation o f the budget, and the
absence o f mechanisms to track expenditures for poverty reduction. The report also
emphasized the need to improve the quality o f monthly statistics on public finances, the
need to collect information on resources collected by ministries and deconcentrated
organizations themselves and finally, the needto ensurebetter supervision ofrecruitment
andpromotions that couldbenefit public employees.

30. Even though some progress has been achieved since the installation of the
government in May 2006 in addressing certain weaknesses mentioned above and to
pursue efforts to improve transparency in public expenditure management, such as the
adoption o f the FY2007 budget before the start o f the fiscal year and reflecting the key

 'ManagementofPublicExpenditures:Assessment andActionPlan,IMFandWorldBank,November
2006.


                                            48

priorities in the I-PRSP; its publication on the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Minist&-ede Z'Economie et des Finances-MEF) website and through pamphlets; the
connection of all public institutions to SYSDEP; the commitment o f MEF to maintain
comptes courants spending at less than 10percent of current non-salary expenditures, our
strategy to strengthenpublic expenditure management includes the following actions:

    1) the improvement of the effectiveness o f public resource allocation by aligning
        public expenditures with the priorities highlighted in the I-PRSP and when
        finalized, inthe PRSP;
   2) strengthening transparency in the allocation o f public resources by: a) regularly
        (quarterly) publishinginformation on the execution of the budget; b) adopting a
        mechanism to track expenditures for poverty reduction and publishing
        information on this type o f spending; c) maintaining comptes courunts
        expenditures to less than ten percent o f current non-salary expenditures; d)
        collecting information on ministries and autonomous and deconcentrated
        institutions' own resources and related expenditures, to include them in the
        budget;
    3) respectingthe credits enteredinthe budget by: a) determining the quarterly limits
        on expenditures for each institution and ensuring that the expenditures associated
        with recruiting and promotions awarded to public employees do not exceed each
        institution's allocated credits andb) preparing a planto settle internal arrears and
        implementing it;
    4) development of a manual for budget formulation and execution, focusing on the
        formulation o fa program budget;
    5) creation o f the General Finance Inspectorate (Inspection Gknbrule des Finances--
        IGF).
    6) the CSCCA catching up with its delay in the preparation o f annual audits by
        completing those for the FY2003,2004 and2005 Treasury accountsandgivingits
        opinion on the draft hi de R6giement for FY2006, with these reports being
        submitted to Parliament duringthe same year.

B) PublicProcurement

31. The National Commission for Public Procurement, created by decree in 2005, i s
currently in the process of establishing effective supervision in this area, to guarantee
transparency and efficiency in procurement by the public administration. Progress has
been achieved in the following areas: a) preparation of standard biddingdocuments; b)
publication of all contracts signed by the Government; c) creation of a database on
providers of goods and services, with this information currently available on the CNMP
website.

32. Despite all these efforts, it has been noted that the new legal framework is partially
respected by public institutions or is simply ignored in certain cases. Many contracts
continue to be signed on a single-source basis, in disregard for the law. To advance and
deepen the reforms that have already been implemented, a certain number o f measures
are envisaged, most of which have already been impIernented. This i s mainly through
three directives of the Prime Minister addressedto all Ministries and public institutions,


                                           49

obliging them to a) ensure compliance with procurement norms, put inplaceprocurement
commissions in each ministry and obtain the approval o f the CNMP for any public
procurement contract above G300.000, necessary for any disbursement related to public
procurement by General Budget Directorate; and b) prepare an annual public
procurement plan. In the same context o f consolidating the results achieved, the
Governmentplansto:

     0  provide more specific and up-to-date information that can be accessed from the
        CNMP website;
     0   launch an awareness-raising program for businesses and public officials on the
        reformsimplemented inthe area o fpublic procurement;
        prepare a new law on public procurement in order to conform to international
        bestpractice andto correct weaknesses noted inthe 2005 decree; and
         ensure in 2007 the adoption by key sector ministries and public enterprises
         (Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works andJustice, and EDHandAPN)
         of the standard bidding documents and procedure manual prepared by the
         CNMP; independent review o f procedures utilized by these institutions by an
         audit fmo f international repute.

C)Managementof publicenterprises.

33. Public enterprises have not always played the role which was assignedto them, that
of producing basic goods andservices at a competitive cost so as to enable the majority
of the population to access them as well as make them available to economic agents. The
principalreason behindthis situation is the management structure of public enterprises.
This is based on questionable financial and operational practices that do not conform to
the rules. Their accounting systems are barelyexistent. No controlmechanism for the use
of profits, ifthere are any, exists. The result i s a bad allocation o f public resources; and
most enterprises have fallen into bankruptcy, survivingonly because o f subsidies from
the Treasury, whose resources are already limited, and the access o f the population to
these basic goods and services is limited. Less than a third o f households have access to
electricity, only 11percent have a drinking water ccmnection, and the rate of penetration
of fixed telephone lines is only 1.8 percent.

34. In order to improve the production and provision o f these goods and services, the
strategy o f the Government is to strengthen transparency and efficiency in the
management o f the main public enterprises. In this area, several measures have already
been undertaken, including: the accounting rehabilitation for the national telephone
company (Teleco) andEM;the financial audits of the port authority (Autoritk Purtuaire
Nutionale-APN), Teleco, and EdH; the launching of a bidding process to obtain
petroleum products for electricity production; and the implementation of a monthly
monitoring mechanism for the Treasury's subsidy to EdH for the production of
electricity. This last measure involves monitoring the amount of the subsidy, the price
and volume of petroleum products purchased, the quantity of energy produced and the
number of hours of electricity distributed. This information, which will continue to be
published monthly, is currently available to the general public on the website of MEF



                                            50

 (www.mefiaiti.e;ouv.ht) and will be subject to an audit each trimester by an independent
                 -
 firm.

 35. The Government intends to advance reformsalready underway in the sector, such as
 completingthe cycle of audits of the principalpublic enterprises with the completion of
 the audit for the metropolitan drinking water company (Centrule Aufonome
 Mdtropolitaine d'Eau Potable--CAMEP). Measures have been taken with the aim of
 developing and implementingan actionplanto address the key recommendations of the
'audits of each of APN, EdH, and Teleco. Inthe area of reforms for the drinkingwater
 and sanitation sector, a new legalframework is beingdeveloped. It envisions separating
 the functions of regulationandservice provision, promotingdecentralizationofthe sector
 and partnership between the public and private sectors. The Government also intends to
 revise the legal and regulatory framework for the telecoms sector to enhance sector
 governance andpromotepublic-privatepartnerships. Inaddition, the authoritiesintendto
 includebudget credits for the payment of electricity, water and telecoms in the FY2008
 ministries' and public institutions' budgets to ensure these pay their bills to EDH,
 CAMEP and Teleco. The Government also intends to continuethe use of competitive
 biddingprocesses for the purchase of fuel and electricity. This includes its commitment
 to not extend, revise or renew existingcontracts (for either electricity or fitel purchases)
 through direct negotiations but insteadto tender them through competitive bidding. In
 this respect, the Government will launch competitive bidding to replace the existing
 PPAs for the supply of electricity to Port-au-Prince and main provincial towns for the
 contracts expiring in2007. Compliancewith IDA'Senvironmentalrecommendations in
 these competitiveprocesses will beensured.

 36. As for the FER, and to ensure the sustainability of the large road investments
 currently being undertaken, the Government is committed to making this institution
 functionalby guaranteeing it a resource flow proportionateto its mission. Inadditionto
 the tax on petroleum products, six decrees have recently been taken to maximize the
 amount of financial resources for the FER. To promotetransparency and oversight inthe
 use of roadmaintenancefunds, the Government is committedto undertake technical and
 financial audits of the institutions operating in road maintenance as the FER and the
 MTPTC(for planningandexecutionofeligibleroadmaintenance activities) andthe MEF
 (for timely transfer of funds). The Government also intends to include in the FY2008
 budgetanannex detailingprojectedrevenuesandplannedexpenditures for the FER.


 D)Humanresourcemanagement.

 37. The weakness of human resources i s a serious handicap for the efficiency o f the
 publicsector. The Government is aware that this is a critical problemthat it must address
 inorder to improvethe absorptivecapacity for externalaid. The size of the public sector
  is relatively small and the availability of qualified human resources is affected by
 migrationand the lack of incentiveto work inthe public'sectordue to its uncompetitive
  salaries. In order to strengthen the public administration, a coordination unit was put in
 placeinthe offce ofthe PrimeMinisterandthe government iscommittedto:



                                             51

           1) reform the legal and regulatory framework as well as the system of
               incentives, notably by defining a system, the applicability and the
               procedures for new merit-basedappointments and promotions;
           2) rationalize employment and salary policies;
           3) update and maintainupto date the public sector's human resource
               database.

E)The fight against corruption.

38. Conuption contributes significantly to the non-optimal allocation o fresources in the
Haitian economy. To remedy its harmful effects, the Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC) was
created, an autonomous entity placed under the supervision o f the MEF. Since its
creation, the Unit has undertaken several actions in the area o f corruption prevention,
including training seminars, anti-corruption public awareness campaigns conducted
through various media, and the organization of a survey on governance and perceptions
ofcorruption inHaiti.

39. Inits anti-corruption program, the Government envisages the implementation of the
following actions:

    1) a national anti-comption strategy will be elaborated and implemented, based on
       the results and recommendations o f analysis of the survey on perceptions of
       corruption inHaiti;
    2) a ((Law on Asset Declaration)) will be adopted and applied to civil servants. The
        law would 1) require, at a minimum, that the public officials identifiedby the
       Constitution and those designated as comptables des deniers publics declare
       annually i)all assets they, their spouses anddependent children own or have the
       beneficial use of, (ii) income received from whatever source; 2) sanction all
                                all
        individuals who either do not submit a declaration or submit a false one; and 3)
        assign to the U K C the responsibility to ensure the monitoring ofthe evolution of
        the assets o f the aforementioned individuals andto present to the CSCCA and the
        Parliamentary ethics and anti-conuption commissions the resultsof its monitoring
        through annual compliance reports.

F)Governance inthe EducationSector.

40. The education sector is characterizedby poor governance and a poor allocation of
resources, which has led to a poor rate of enrollment for children in the 6-12 year age
bracket. A further characteristic o f the sector is the number of schools administered by
the private sector (more than 90 percent) which, because of the fees applied, discourages
some parents, principallypoor ones, fiom sending their children to school.

41. With the aim o f allocating more resources to this sector, the government decided to
increase spending in this sector (excluding debt service) fiom 19 to 21 percent o f total
expendituresfor FY2007,with 48 percent o fthis to be allocated to primaryeducation.




                                            52

42. Within its program to strengthenthe governance of this sector, the government plans
to create a National Partnership Office (Ofice National de Purtenariat, ONP) in charge
o fplanning, coordination, andpromotingdialogue between the public and private sectors.
A Law on the creation of the ONP has been submitted to Parliament for approval. This
office will administer the National Partnership Fund, which will ensure the payment of
school fees for children of poor families who attend private school. The objective is to
enable school access for 50,000 additional students aged 6-12 once the funding is in
place.

G) Civil Society Monitoring Mechanism.

43. The monitoring by civil society organizations of reforms implemented by the
Government is a new development and firmly demonstrates the will o f the Government
to involve civil society inthe process o f the reforms which are necessaryto createa new
social andpolitical environment, propitious for the creation ofwealth.

44. This mechanism includes civil society organizations from different sectors. Four
reports have been produced on the implementation o f the reforms. During a recent
workshop, all partners committed to continue with this experience and to strengthen its
internal functioning. The Government intends to regularly publish on the MEF website,
circulate to the media and transmit to Parliament summaries of independent quarterly
monitoring reports after adoption by the Consultative Committee and discussion with
MEFonprogressachieved.

H)Decentralization.

45. The Government is committed to a process of decentralization and deconcentration,
which is necessary to ensure inclusive and equitable development but also presents
enormous risks for public finances, in the absence o f a legal framework for the
organization and financing of the local government entities (Collectiviths Territorides).
To address this situation, a plan for gradual decentralization over the medium term will
be formulated andwill focus on strengthening institutional capacity to achieve functional
andefficientlocal governance.

I) FinancialSector.

46. Despite the uncertain economic environment in which the Haitian financial system
has developed, it has been able to retain stability over the past two years. However,
certain areas of concern became apparent, such as the difficult situation of two banks, the
weaknesses that were revealed in the accounting system o f the Bank o f the Republic o f
Haiti (BRH), andthe operational losseso f BRHdue to the grantingof credit to the public
Treasury at very low interest rates. Inorder to ensure the stability o f the financial system
neededto protect private savings andattract private sector investment, the Government is
committed to implement a substantialreformof the financial sector. This will include:

         0  the adoption o f a plan to resolve the probl~rnsof banks in difficulty and to
            deepencontrolofthe bankingsystem;


                                             53

           the recapitalization of the BRH, with the Government to pay it market interest
           rates on all new credit granted. This strategywill provideBRHwith sufficient
           revenues.to improve its financial situation;
           the submission of new banking legislation to Parliament according to
           international norms, allowing for the strengthening of the Central Bank's
           powers in terms of corrective measures and the application of prudential
           rules;
           the cessationby BRHof certain activities that are non-core and incompatible
           with its functioning, notably its participation in the management o f the
           Haitian Popular Bank (Bunque Populuire d'Hafti-BPH),          Teleco and the
           National Society o f Industrial Parks (Societk Nationale des Parcs
           Industriels-SONAPI) or its possessiono f shares inthese businesses.

IV. Implementationand monitoringof the program.

47. To assure the implementation andmonitoringo f the program, the Government plans
to establish within the MEF a structure for the strategic monitoring o f economic
governance policies and for coordination o f the contributions o f various donors
supportingour efforts in economic governance; and the strengthening o f the capacity to
produce and disseminate economic and statistical information, notably by strengthening
the capacity o f the Haitian Statistical Institute (I'Inrtitut Hui'tien de Statistiques et
d 'Infonnatique--1HSI) and the Office of Economic Studies (Direcrion des Efudes
Economique-DEE) of the MEF. Furthermore, we are committed to provideeach quarter
to the World Bank the information and statistical data needed for the monitoring of the
actions it supports. In addition, the Government will hold monthly meetings with the
World Bank to review the implementation o f these actions and address any possible
bottlenecks or problems ina timely way.

V. Requestfor financialassistance.

48. The Government has decided to take the appropriate measuresto reverse the Haitian
population's trendtaward impoverishment. We planto do this byrebuildingthe State and
creating a stable environment conducive to wealth creation, and also through pursuing
economic governance reforms. To do this, we have prepared and remain determined to
implement the program presentedabove anddetailed inthe matrix attachedinAnnex 1.
            -                                                  -
The Government wishes to obtain the technical and financial support o f the World Bank
to accompanyit inthe implementation o fthese ambitious but necessaryreforms.

49. I renew our commitment to work with your institution, in particular in the
implementation of our economic governance reform program, and ask that you be
assuredo fmyhighestregards.



                                                             Daniel DORSAINVIL




                                            54

           THEGOVERNMENT'S PROGRAMOFECONOMIC                         GOVERNANCE    MEASURES       FOR
                                                 FY2007-08


                   Participation             AccountabiIitylOvenight        Transparency

                                               Plannedactions

PRSP              Participatory       Mechanisminplacefor                   DisseminationofPRSannual
                  process for         monitoring/evaluationofPRSP           progressreports.
                  preparationof       implementation.
                  PovertyReduction
                  strategyofipc cP*
                  trigger).

Promote           Publicconsultations Alignmentofpublic spendingpriorities  Publicationofquarterlyreportson
efflciency,       on draftnewpublic   withthe I-PRSPand,whencompleted,      public expendituresfor poverty
transparency      procurementlaw.     the PRSPreflectingemphasison pro-     reductionbasedon automated
and                                   poorgrowth (HIPC CP trigger and       tracking mechanism(HIPC CP
accountablllty in                     EGRO I1trancheconditions).            trigger and IMFPRGF SB').
public resource
use through                           Adoption of automatedmechanismto      Reducepercentageofcurrent
publicflnanclal                       trackpublic expenditures for poverty  expendituresdisbursedthrough
management                            reduction(HIPC CP triggerandIMF       compfu courunu (IMF PRGF SPe
and                                   PRGF SB).                             and IDB PBLcondition?.
procurement
reform                                Up-to-datepreparationofGovernment     Publicationofaudited Govcmmmt
                                      accounts, their annual auditby CSCCA  accounts (EGRO I1tranche
                                      and their submissionto Parliament     conditions and HIPC CP trigger).
                                      (EGRO I1tranche conditionsandHIPC
                                      CP trigger); preparationand           Expandthe TOFE coverageby
                                      implementationofactionplanto address  includinginitministries' and
                                      keyaudit findings.                    deconcentratcdagencies' own
                                                                            resourcesand relatedexpenditure
                                      Set quarterlylimitson eachminishy's   (IMF PRGFSB).
                                      expenditureand ensure, withinthe
                                      ministries,that all recruitmentand    Centnlizationofall informationon
                                      promotionproposalsarewithin budget    publicactcmalanddomestic
                                      appropriations (IMF PRGFSB).          foreigncumncy debt insingle
                                                                            databaseandpublicationof
                                      AdoptionbykeySector ministriesand     quarterlyreportson extemaldebt
                                      publicenterprisesofstandardbidding    data (HIPC CP trigger).
                                      documentsandproceduremanual
                                      preparedbyCNMPas evidencedby an       DatabaseofGovernmentcontracts
                                      independentreviewofproceduresof       andsuppliers(which is already
                                      theseministriedenterprisesby an audit publiclyavailableon the CNMP
                                      firmofinternationalrepute(EGRO I12d   website) enhanced.
                                      tranche condition).
                                                                            Preparationofstandardbidding
                                      Adoption and satisfactory             documentsfor goods,works and
                                      implementationofanewpublic            consultingservices, a manualfor
                                      procurementlaw inlinewith             publicprocurementproceduresand
                                      internationalbest practice(HIPC CP    modelsfor procurementplans.
                                      trigger).


       HIPC CPtrigger =HIPC Completion Point trigger.
     `IMFPRGFSPC=SI3 =IMPPRGF structuralbenchmafk.
     'IMFPBLcondition=
           PRGF          IMFPRGFstructuralperformancecriteria.
       IDB                  IDB PolicyBasedLoancondition.

                  Comprehensive        Registryofstate employesupdatedand
 public sector%   iiagnostic survey    thereafter maintainedupto date, and
 human resource   :households,public,  definitionofsystem, applicabilityand
 management       privateand the       procedmsfor new civil service
 and employees'
L                 NGOsectors)ofthe     recruitmentsand promotions(EGRO 11
 accountability   state ofgovcrnance   2" tranche condition).
                  mdthe experiences
                  >fthepopulation      Adoption ofAsset DeclarationLaw
                  with corruption in   applyingto peopleidentifiedby
                  Haitiandwide         Constitutionandpublicresource
                  disseminationofits   managers,with sanctions for non
                  RSUltS.              compliance(HIPC CP trigger and IDB
                                       PBLcondition).
                  Participatory
                  processfor           Adoption and wide disseminationof
                  preparationofAnti-   Anti-tkrmptionStrategy(EGROII2"
                  ConuptionStrategy.   tranche condition).
 Promote          Submissionto         Adoption and satisfactory                 Oversightofpublicfinancing
 accountability   Parliamentof         impicmcnfationofpublic financing          mecha&m for non-public&hool
 and              legislationcreating  mechanismto helppoor fsmilies pay for     transfers byNEPO Boardandby
 transparency In  theNational          fees innon-publicprimaryschoolsfor        independentaudit ofschools
 the useof public Education            enrollmentofadditional 50,000 outsf-      receivingpublic transfen(audit is
 resouremfor      PartnershipOffice    schoolchildren(HIPCCP trigger).           HIPCCP trigger); informationon
 education        FORO I1prior                                                   per-capitaallocationsto schools
                  action) and creation Accountability for financingmechanism     availableto parents.
                  o fNational          at school levelthroughschool
                  PahershipFundto      managementcommitteesincluding
                  promotepolicy        parents' representatives.
                  dialogueand
                  coordination
                  betweeneducation
                  sectorstakeholders
                  andaccountability
                  Mdtransparencyin
                  use ofpublic
                  education funds.
                                       Mechanismestablishedfor monthly           ImprovetransparencyinAPN, EDH
 eMclenq and                           monitoringofgovernmentresources           andTELECOmanagementby
 transparency in                       allocated to the electricity sector (EGRO completingFY2OOS financialaudits
 public                                I1prioractionand IMFPRGFprior             ofAPN, EDHand TELECOby
 Infrastructure                        action); quarterlyextemal audit of        firms ofinternationalrepute(EGRO
 management                            mechanism(IMFPRGF SB).                    I1prior action), implementingthe
                                                                                 audits' keyrecommendationsand
                                       FromJanuary 1,2007 onwards,               launching their financialaudits for
                                       competitivelyprocureany further           FY2006.
                                       contractual arrangementsfor the
                                       purchaseofpower(whether throughnew        Resultsofelectricity sector
                                       contracts or the modificationor           monitoringmechanismpublished
                                       extensionofexistingcontracts) for the-    on MEFwebsite(EGRO I1prior
                                       supply ofelectricityto Port-au-Prince     actionand IMFPRGFprioraction).
                                       andthe main provincialtowns, with due
                                       regardfor IDA'Senvironmental
                                       recommendationsinthe matter (EGRO
                                       I12" tranchecondition).

                                       Completionofauditingrequirements in
                                       respectofpublicsectorroad
                                       maintenance activities and operationsfoi
                                       at leastoneyear (EGRO I12"dtranche
                                       condition).

 Enhance
~                                      Establisheffectivecustoms controlat



                                                        56

evenue             four keypo* andthreeborder
  ~~




aobillzatlon       crossings, reinforceand restructure the
                   customagency,enhance
                   computerizationoftax and customs
                   administrationoffices,andreinforcethe
                   tax auditmechanism(IMFPRGF SB
                   and SPC, HIPCcompletion pointcriteria
                   and IDBPBL conditionalities).

                   Submit a newdraftcustom code to
                   Parliament(IMF PRGF SB).
4ddress            Implementactionplansto dealwith
Rnaaclslsector     bankingsystem weaknesses(IMF PRGF
neaknaser          SPC).

                   Implementkey IMFrecommendations
                   onBRHsafeguards inaccordancewith
                   action plan(IMFPRGF SPC).

                   Prepareplanto recapitalizethe Central
                   Bankandfor discontinuingBRH
                   involvementinnon-essentialactivities
                   (notably inBPH,TELECO, SONAPI)
                   (IMFPRGFSPC).

                    Submitto Parliamenta draftbankinglaw
                    consistentwith internationalstandards
                    (IMF PRGF SPC).

Forter greater                                              RegularlypublishonMEFwebsite,
civil society                                               circulate to the mediaand transmit
participationin                                             to Parliament summariesofcivil
monitoring of                                               monitoringreports(EGRO IIP
                                                            society organizations' quarterly
economic
governance                                                  tranchecondition).
reforms




                                      57

     ANNEX3: ReformMeasuresSupportedby EGROIand EGROI1

                          EGROI                                               EGRO11
 Prior Actions for Board     Secondlranche Conditions                               SeroattTnarhe
       Presentation                                                                    Condition$
Budget for FY2005
adopted by the Council of
Minister3bcforx
beginningof the fiscd
year on Octobcr 1 Uudga
should incorporarckcy
ob~cctivcsas rndicstcdin
fnc four pillnrsof the                                      ComplcrEonby
lnrcrimCooperation                                         GSCC& submission
Framework (ICF).            Namon: than 10%of'              to Pwlimmtand       allocations.
particularlythose rclating                              nt  pubiic        audit
to Ihr wononiic                                         8   of FY2003Treasury   Submissionta
gowmmce programand                                          acwunts.
the objectivesof the
rnacroecononiic
siabiliz~lr~onprognm         Appmval and publicationof
Civil socicty anddonors
consultedduring budget
prepamion. Approved                                         Circular,IO ertmm
budget hasbeen Nrdcly                                       compitsnwwith thc
dissermnarcd in thc                                         2M5 Procuremem
country through the                  ionand executionof            includingby
oficial gaatse and                     ws, and sutisfackory       king
IedHS.                       to IDA.                              mx
                                                            comi~slons.         (and, whenc            ~    ~  ~  ~
S o n - u i qcurrent public  Comptitive m i a n tof                              the PRSP)and tncludrs
rxpcnditureidi&urscd        membersofthe CKMP                                    mmntx budget for
through campies cowunt.v                                                         FER.
not exceeding 1SOLO for the  pmuremt consultmtls
ModJuly-Scptcrnbcr           hired;stnndardbidding                               Strengthenbudget
20oJand iWOfor the           dacumentsadopted;                                   canmfsthrough
nionlhs of Scptcmbcr         Systmmic d i ~ ~ ~ i non i o n
                                                       ~                         submissionio
2004.                        the internetandfor focal                            P a r l i m t ofthe toi de
                             newspapersofthe rmltsof                            R&Icmonl for FY?OM,
Information on useof         tendered bidssince December                         and submission to
compresmurants in post       2004, mentionofdatab.w of                          Parliamentand
fiscal year widely           Government suppliers                                publicationofthe
disseminated.                availableto the public through                      CSCCA audit ofthe
                             CNMP.                                               FY2004and FY2005
Adoption by Council of                                                          Treasury accounts.
Ministersof a decree,
satisfactory to IDA, for the                                                     Adoption bykeysector
establishmentofthe                                                               ministriesandpublic
CNMP (decree also                                                                enterprises(Ministries
establishes procedure for                                                        of Education,Health,
definingthresholdof                                                              Public Works and
procurement contracts to                                                         Justice, and EDHand
be reviewed by CNMP                                                              APN) ofstandard
and reaffirmsthat public                                                         biddingdocuments and
bidsare the norm).                                                               procedure manual
Appointment of                                                                   preparedby CNMP as
Coordinator of CNMP.                                                             evidencedby an
Preparation of the TORS                                                          independentr6wii.u.of
satisfactory to IDA for                                                          proceduresofthese
members ofCNMP.                                                                  ministriesand public
                                                                                 enterprisesbyan audit
                                                                                 firm ofinternational

                                                58

                                                                                  wit-based
                                                                                  ~            pmd          ~    ~
                                                                                  pmmorions.



public at large for example                                                       Comption Strategy
during a press conference.                                                        includingdefinition of
                                                                                  institutional
Letter sent to IDA                                                                arrangements for
requestingpartnershipin                                                           implementationofthe
preparinga                                                                        strategy and that, in the
comprehensivediagnostic                                                           opinion ofIDA, is in
survey oncorruption                                                               conformitywith the
practicesin Haiti (to                                                             popamobjectives.
complement and deepen
the earlier study
undertaken by Heritage
Foundation-Haiti in
2003); TORSfor the
survey are agreed with
IDA.

Appointmentofthe FER        FERhasawarded and                                     PramJmuary I,2007
Director General;           publishedits first road                               anwsrdii, ~       ~       ~  ~  ~  t
Appointment ofmembers       maintenance contract sinceits                         procurt?nnyfurther
of BoardofDirectors;        creation.                                             cantmud
Board is operational.                                                             mpmtsforthe
                            The Governmenthas                                      purchaseofpaw=
The Govemmenthas            undertaken the followin.g                              ~ W ~ C t~u~ t
                                                                                            ~ C       neur
undertaken the following    anions for at lowr three ofrhe EmblishUdcquatc         EO~VDCCSor the
actions:                    five public enterprises        mechanismfor           modificationor
                            includedinthe economic         monthlymonitoring      extension of existing
CAMEP: Calls for bids       governanceprogram:             of government           contracts) for the supply
havebeen launchedto                                        resourcesallocatedto    ofelectricity to Port-au-
recruitinternationalaudit   CAMEP: Internationalaudit      the electricitysector,  Prince and the main
and managementfirms to      and technicalreview firms      as evidenced bythe     provincial towns, with
conducta financial audit    selectedfor financial audit,   publicationon the       due regardfor IDA'S
ofCAMEP as well as a        managementand technical        MEFwebsite of          environmental
managementand technical     audit.                         reportspresentingat    recommendationsinthe
audit inpreparationfor its                                 leastthree months'     maner.
reformand management        AAN and APN: International     data reflecting
i             ~program    r audit firms havebeen~
                                     ~                     Govemmmt ~
                                                            ~                      Completionofauditing
                            competitivelyselectedand       spendingon fuel (for
                            financial auditsofAPN and      IPPs and EDH) and
                            AAN initiated.                 to cover PPAswith
                                                           IPPS.
                            EDH:&counting
                            rehabilitationof EDH is
                            ongoingand has progressed                              twelvemonths before
EDH:Call for bidfor         satisfactorilyas per agreed                            the secondtranche


                                                59

selection of international work program;international                           releasedate(as
firm hasbeen issued for    audit firmhas beenselected to                        itscribed inpara. 40).
accountingrehabilitation.  conduct financialauditof
                           EDH; the Governmenthas
TELECO. Accounting         authorized the launchingof
rehabilitation ofTELECO    calls for bidsto recruitan
hasbeen completed.         internationalfirm to undertake
                           an assessment of
                           environmentalliabilities as
                           the first ofa series of studies
                           that will leadto the
                           preparationofthe
                           Management Contractof
                           EDH.

                           TELECO Internationalfirm
                           hasbeen selectedto cany out
                           financialaudit;decisionmade
                           on optionfor restructuringthe
                           sector, taking intoaccount,
                           interalia, the resultsof a
                           sector-wide review.

                                                           Submit to Parliament
                                                           legislation,
                                                           satisfactorytQ IDA,
                                                           creatingthe Nationst
                                                           Education
                                                           PartnershipOffice
                                                           (NEPO).

                            ExecutiveSecretariat hasbem                         Regularlypublishon
                           hiredthroughacompetitive                             %fEFwebsite, circulate
                           process.                                             40 the media and
                                                                                t m i t to Parliament
                           Timelyprovisionof                                    summariesofcivil
                           informationrequestedby civil                         w e t y organizations'
                           society organizations(which                          quarterlymonitoring
                           would havebeen                                       ~ p r taftertheir
                                                                                        s
                           competitivelyselected by                             adoptionbyCC and
                            Executive Secretariat)in                            discussion with MEFon
                           chargeofthe monitoringof                             pragessachieved.
                            specific d u l m ofthe
                            economic govemance
                           P r o m .

                            Monthly discussions of
                           monitoringresultsby
                           Government. Executive
                           Secretariat and civil society
                           organizations selected for
                           monitoringofeconomic
                           govemanceprogram.
the Executive Secretariat
to publishthe rcports
prepared by civil society
organizationscharged
with monitoringof
economic governance
program),




                                                60

                               ANNEX4: FUND     RELATIONS   NOTE

PressReleaseNo. 06/258
November 20,2006

 Haiti: IMFExecutiveBoard Approves US%109.5Million PRGFArrangement for Haiti

The Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved today a three-year
arrangement for Haiti under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in a total
amount equivalent to SDR73.7 million (about US$109.5 million) to support the government's
economic program. An initial disbursement o f SDR 28.1 million(about US$41.7 million) will
become available immediately. The Haitian authorities announced their intention to use
SDR20.5 million (about US$30.4 million) o fthe first disbursement to repay outstanding credit
drawn under the Fund's EmergencyPost-Conflict Assistance (see Press Release05/234).

Following the Executive Board discussion, Mr. Takatoshi Kato, Deputy Managing Director
andActing Chair, said:

"Haiti has made an important start in its transition away from political and economic
instability.Under two successiveprograms supportedby the Fund's Emergency Post-Conflict
Assistance, the authorities were able to restore macroeconomic stability through fiscal
discipline and improved economic governance. As a result, economic growth resumed, the
currency stabilized, inflation was halved, and international reserves were significantly
increased. Following successful presidential and parliamentary elections in the first half o f
this year, the new authorities have made concerted efforts to maintain macroeconomic
stability, improve security, and develop home-grown strategies to increase growth and
improve livingconditions for the poor.

"The new PRGF-supported program will focus on consolidating these gains throughactions to
increase fiscal revenues, improve public financial       management, make public enterprise
operations more transparent, and reform the financial sector. An anchor o f macroeconomic
stability is the pledge to continue zero central bank fmmcing of the budget, The FY2007
budget allows for a significant reorientation o f spending to social services and domestically-
financed public investment.

"The program calls for a further reduction in inflation and continued steady increase of
international reserves. To achieve this, the authorities' program targets growth inbase money
to a rate lower than that o f nominal GDP, and the central bank (BRH) will maintain its key
policy interest rate positive inreal terms. The steps taken by the BRHto stabilize weak banks
should facilitate further efforts to strengthenthe bankingsector.

"The recently prepared Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) is comprehensive
and ambitious, yet realistic. Implementation o f the I-PRSP and the PRGF-supported
macroeconomic program should provide Haiti a basis for sustained investment-led growth,
md~           n~ v ~~ ~ r~ ~ -~ Especially ~ ~~ ~ ~however,~will bethe cmtinucd
                                ~~~~~~~.~~  r      l             d
                                                                 ~                 ~        ~     t
involvement of the international community in providing predictable aid, which should be
well coordinated with national budget priorities, insupport o fHaiti's development strategy.


                                                61

"A final decision on Haiti's debt relief under the enhanced HlPC Initiative is pending action
this week bythe World Bank'sExecutiveBoard. A pressreleasewill beissuedjointly with the
Bankfollowingthosedeliberations," Mr.Kat0 said.




                                               62

                                                Annex 5-Haiti at a Glance
                                                                          Latin
~ a DavdopmontIndicators
      y                                                               Amen-          LOW
                                                             Haiti    I Canb.    1-
fms)
Populabon,mbyear(mllionr)                                     8.8          551      2.353
Surfaceana (thousandsq. km)                                   28       20,418     29,265
Populasong r m (94)                                           1.4          1.3        1.8
Urbanpopulalion(94 of tolal populaSm)                         39            78        31

GNI (Atlasmthcd. USSbillmr)                                   3.9        2,210      1,364
OH1percapto(AUmW h o d U S )                                 450        4 . m         650
GNIparcapta(PPP. internatronalS)                            1,840        8.111      2.486

GDP g r M (K)                                                 1.8          4.4        7.5
GDPper caplagmrvth(W)                                         -0.2         3.1        5.6

(mortmutt c ~ t w tZCW-~OQS)
                          ~ ,

P o w headmunlraboat SI a day(PPP,K)                          54
Powrty headcountratioa1$2 a day pPP K)                        78            n9
bferrpectancyat brtk(pan)                                     52            72         59
Infantnwtali~~ 1,oOOlivebirths)
               (per                                           76            27         80
Childmalnutnbon(K of children uodw5)                           17             7        39

AdultIitaracy,mals(%ofaagar15anddder)                                       91         73
AdUll IiIeRCY,ferre.la (Pio f a w 15andddw)
Grass pnmaryenrollment.mile (K of wegmup)                                   90         50
                                                                           121        110
Gross pnmrymmllmenl.femle (% of age group)                                 117         99

Access Ioan irrpmwdwater b o r n (% of populamn)               54           91         75
AcmMto rmpmvadsanitatlonfanlitres(Kof population)              30           77         38



 NetAid flows                                      IOIO                             2005.

(USS rnJliDnS)
NetODA andf i n a l aid                             105       168          208        243
 Top 3 dylorr[m 2001):
   UnitedStales                                      35        50           91         91
   Canada                                             5        10           M          37
   France                                             7        32           11         25

Ad (Uof GNI)                                         7.3      5.9           5.6       6.3
/\ld per capta(US$)                                  19        25           28         29

 Long-TermEcanomlcTrends

Cwumapncea(annualW change)                          17.6     21.3          11.5       14.6
 GDP!-Kit     dclblor (annualk change)              21.4     14.1          112                   I   -4-LIDp          -uIpwcw4f3  I
 Ternof tradeindex(2ooo= 100)
 Exchangsnle(anntM a w e , 1-1          per USS)     5.0      5.0          21.5      40.7
                                                    225       132          100         87


 PowlaDon. nid-year (rnllrons)                       5.5      6.9           7.9       8.8
 GDP (USSfrillions)                                1.462    2.864         3,716     4.300
                                                              (96 of GDP)
 AgnwHu-e                                                    33.0          27.8      25.6               -0.1          -7,4   -1.2
 Industry                                                    22.0          16.2       16.0              -1.7           3 2    0.9
   Manufacturing                                             18.0           8.8       8.3               -1.7          -8.4   -2.2
 SaVlMi                                                      43.0          64.1       51.1               0.5          0.3     -0.4
 H   W    d final c m s ~ t r c aexpenditure        81.9     81.4          86.0       93.3               0.9
 G.nmlgwtfinalconro~on             expenditure      10.1      8.0           7.6       6.3               -4.4
 Grosscapitalfwmetion                               16.9      13.0         26.6       23.0              0.8            8.6     1.5

 Eqzvrlsof poodsand sewas                           21.6      17.5         12.3       14.0               1.2        -10.3      7.7
 Invcitsof m sandm c e s                            30.5     20.0          32.5       41.O               2.3          -5.2   10.6
 Gmrssanngs                                                   6.4          21.a      23.5


 We: Figuresin italicsare faryeanOther than Ihoespemied. 2005dala ora pfelbmnaryeotimales...indicatesdataara nol available.
 a. Ad dala are for 2004.




                                                                         63

                                    Annex 5 -Haiti at a Glance continued              -
                                                                                                                          Haiti

mhnw d Paymentsand Trade                         2ac4     2005

( U S marno)
Tobl inshardso expm (to b)                        331       458.8
Tobl menhandsoimports(f 0.b)                     1,088.7  1.308.5
NeAVadein@dr and mrwu                            452.1     .1182.7

W rmwmahmofenprowe(net)
       W rmttanm and
                                                  578       925

Cum1accounlbalanca                               -280      -270
  as a K of GDP (Wuding grantt)                   8.8       8.3

Nallorn@ assets(CmtralBank.US)mllims               172.3    191.2

          GovammantFinance

(KolGDP)
Revenue                                            8.4       9.7
   Tax revmu8                                      7.7       8.3
W n s o                                            7.4      13.8
                                                                       Tuhnology 8ndInfrastructure                  2000  2004
Cashrurpluslddiar                                 -22       4.7
                                                                       Pavedmad0(KofWl)                             24.3
Hipheslmrwdtax rale (K)                                                Fixedlineand mDbilsphare
   Individual                                                           5UbSCZlben(Wr 1 . m people)                   1s    64
   Comonle                                                             Highlechwlogyaxporls
                                                                        (W of menuloaurederporls)                    3.5
 External Dobtand R.rourca flows
                                                                       Environment
 ( U S mPIIMS)
T&l doticuktanbnganddisbud                       1.169     1,338.0     Agncuhtralland(Kof landa m )                   Y)   98
T&l deb1S2MCC                                       44       51.0      Forertarea (K of landarea.2000and2005)        4.0   3.8
 HlPCa d MOR1d&l rollof (expeded,Row)                -        -        Nsbonallypolecled8r-    (Kof landarea)              0.4

 TWl deb1(K OIGDP)                                31.5      32.8       Frsrhwakrm o u r n percapta(cu. mters)             1
                                                                                                                          .w
 TOWdeMseivie8(K of expar&.)                       7.9       8.5       Freshwalrr~ l h d(K~of inlernslresources)
                                                                                                  l                        7.4

 F ~ a g areaimmlmenl(net inflows)
         n                                          8.0      9.5       co2 emulw percapita(mt)                      0.18  0.22
 pomolioequily (ne1imlows)                                             GDPpermilofenergy uw
                                                                         (2WOPPPS per kgdollquwaknt)                 7.0   6.3

                                                                       WrOyUSEPOI*la        (kQof 011 8WlValent)     257   270




                                                                                                                       0     0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0     00
                                                                                                                       0     0


                                                                                                                     480   507
                                                                                                                       8     0
  Prlvrt. Sutor Dwaiopmont                        2ow       2005                                                      10    50

 Tmarequiredto slanaburmess(bp)                               3
 Cos1to~1811a txmness (K of GNIper capita)           - 2 0153.1
                                                     -                                                                 0     0
 TimnqUlmdIOr8QlSlerpmpar(v(days)                    - 6 8 3                                                           0     0
                                                                                                                       0     0
 Rankedasa ~ J mnslranllo b s l w
                    M
   (Kn.a.nnnagensurveyedwhoagreed)
       of                                                                                                              0     0

     ma.

 Stcck mrketcapitalization(Kof GDP)
 Bank branchao(per 100,000 people)


 Nole:Figuresin Mi0arefor panolhar lhanmoSespaclhed. 2005dala are prelimnary8shrrsles.
  ..indicaledalaarenotamlable. -indicaI8s observabonis no1appkcable.

  DevelopmentE m c a DsvelopnenlDataGroup(DECDO).




                                                                     64

                  Annex 5 -Haiti at a Glance continued
                                            -
Millennium Development Goals                              Haiti




                                    65

                                     ANNEX 6 KEY ECONOMIC
                                                  -                     INDICATORS




GroJsdomestic produc(                        100        100     100    100     100    100      100    100    loo
 Agricultum                                   26         25      25     26      25      25      26     26     26
  Industry                                    16          15     16     16      16      16      16      16    16
  SemCeS                                      51         50      51     51      51      51      51     51     51
TotplConsumption                              99        101     101    100     101      99      97     91     97
Grossdomestic fixed investment                           31             27      28      31      31     31     32
 Public                                       253          4     273      4                              8     8
  Private investment                          22         27      24     23      235     238     238    24     24

Exportr (GNW                                  12          16     14     14      13      13      13      14    14
Imports(-)                                    36         47      43     41      42      43      42     42     43
Grossdomestic savings                           2         -1     -1       0       0      2       3       5     7
Grossnational savin$                          22          27     23     24      25      24      25     25     24
Mmranduin item
Gross domtstic product                      3472      2960     3538   4310    4734   5250.4  5726    6055   6431
(US$ millionat cumnt prices)
Realannualgrowthrates (%, calculatedfrom76 prices)
  Grossdomestic d u c t at constantprices    -0.5        0.4    -3.5    1.8     2.5    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0
Realannualpercapita growthrates (%, calculatedfrom76 prim)
  Grossdomesticproductat Constantprices      -2.3       -1.7    -5.4   -0.2     0.8    2.2     2.3     2.3   2.3
Balanceof P~YIIWII~S(USSmillions)
 Exparts(GNFS?                               431        468     510    597     639    722      783    855    936
    MerchandiseFOB                           273        333     378    459     505    557      601    656    71%
                                                                                     2232    2338   ,2483  2640
  l a G E ! O B                             '9283p    I'PI'J   Il22   1309
                                                                      1760    ?#I    1690                  2017
 Rtsourcebalance                            -802      -948    -1038  -1163   -1372  -1511   -11786
                                                                                              555   -1897
                                                                                                     1628  -1704
 Netcurrentbansfus                           649        781     893    925     995   1055    1165    1285   1419
 Currentaccountbalance                      -168       -182    -159   -267    -358   -504    -468    487    488
 Netprivate foreign direct investment           5        14       6     I O     45     20
 Long-termloans(net)                          37         28      53    -82      50      55
  Official                                    -3          -2     24     -6      67      80
   Rivote                                     41         30      29    -76     -17    -25
 Othacapital(nnbrlcmn&arpciar)                58        129     133    393     317    471
 changeinreserved                             69          I 1   -33    -54     -55    4 2
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(% ofGDP)                   -23.1      -32.1   -29.4  -27.0   -30.7   -28.5  -26.6    -26.1 -25.5


h b k (iMnW (8s KOfGDP8t nurketp d d
 CumntTeYenUeS                               8.3         9.0     9.0    9.7     10.2   10.0  10.5     11.0  11.3
 Centralgovcmmmtexpmditurc                  11.5       12.6    11.4   13.8    15.0    17.4   17.5     18.0  18.4
 ovmllbalance                                -3.1       -3.5    -2.5   -0.7    -1.4   -1.9    -1.9    -1.9  -2.1
 Capitalexpenditure                           2.0        3.3     3.5    4.1     5.4    6.5     5.3    5.7    5.9
 Foreignfinancing                            0.4        0.7      0.4   0.7      1.8   -0.3     0.7    0.7    0.4

MonetaryIndicators

 GrowthofM2 (%)                             23.8       39.8     9.1     16.6  6.6      17.9    11.0   10.3  10.4

 Realinlnrstrates
 Consumerpriceindex (% change)                8.7      32.5    22.5   14.8    12.4     8.0     8.0    7.0    6.0
 GDPdeflator (%change)                      10.0       26.8    21.5   17.6    13.9    8.1      8.0    7.3    6.7


a GDPatmaketprices
b. "GNFS' denotes"goods andnonfactorsmices."
E. hcbda not unrcquik.4 bMIfcn     exdudin$ officinl capital mrr
d. Includesuse of IMFreswrces.
e. Consolidatedcentralgovernment.
f. "Ku"denotes"local cumncy units." An increaseinUSYLCUdenotesappreciation.
                                                                                                                 C

                                                               66

                                                   1251   1313  1352  1336 ..


Tot debt$micakfmb d i i&bt relief(vssm)              35    40     47    51   61   9 2 6  4 6 6 6  9
Tot W rerv*e a      h bJIfitiOls1dCbrrclid(US4m)     35    40     47    51   58  90    61   64  67
Tot debt rervico after Hw:rsautlnco (USSm)           35    40     47    51   59   76   $5   49    SS
TotdebtrmicerftcrHLPCndMDRIassistance(USSm)          35     40    47    51   59   76   55   39  41


Debtanddebt service indim
(`4
  TDOlxGS'                                         286.3 280.3 265.0 223.7
  TDOIGDP                                           36.1  47.6  40.8  32.8
  TDYXGS                                             3.    3.    3.
  C - h W                                           85.0



                                                    49     49    50    50




                                                             67

   ANNEX8: TIMETABLE KEYPROCESSrNCEVENTS
                        FOR



Steps                       Date!$
Identification mission      June418,2006

ConceptDocumentreview       November9,2006

Preparationmission          November6-10,2006

ROC:reviewmeeting           N o m k28,2006

Appraisal andnegotWons      December74,2006

Boarddistribution            Decem& 26,2006

Boardpresentation            Jmwy25,2007

Effeetivena                  February 15,2007




                          68

