Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2686 
Operation Name 
Haiti Economic Governance Reform Operation II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P100564 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 15, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 28, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 25, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
During 2004-2006, the Haitian Transitional Government made significant progress in improving 
governance and transparency in public sector operations.  Economic governance reforms were aimed at 
improving the legal framework, creating and strengthening core public institutions, and enhancing 
financial management processes and procedures.  Key reforms covered: (i) budget formulation, 
execution and reporting; (ii) public procurement; (iii) public enterprise management and road 
maintenance; (iv) human resource management and anti-corruption initiatives; and (v) civil society 
monitoring of economic governance reforms.  IDA supported Haiti in these efforts by providing policy 
advice and financial assistance through an Economic Governance Reform Operation I (EGRO I, of 
US$61 million) fully disbursed in 2006, two ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance 
Grants (EGTAG I and II, of US$2 million each) and a LICUS Economic Governance Grant (US$1.5 
million).  IDA support complemented and was closely coordinated with assistance provided by other 
donors, in particular the IDB, IMF, EU and Canada. 
 
The new Government formed in June 2006 has expressed its commitment to pursuing and deepening the 
economic governance reforms initiated during 2004-2006.  This is reflected in the Interim Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) submitted to IDA and the IMF in September 2006.  Building on the 
progress made in the last two years, the Government intends to implement a second phase of economic 
governance reforms focused on promoting efficiency, accountability and transparency in the use of 
public resources.  Progress in these areas, in addition to improved security, are necessary if Haiti is to 
achieve the high, sustained and inclusive economic growth required to reduce poverty. 
 
The Government has asked IDA to continue its assistance in the economic governance area by 
supporting this second phase of reforms. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objectives of the proposed grant are to support economic recovery and poverty 
reduction in Haiti by:  
 
a)  promoting efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use through public 
financial management and procurement reforms;   
b) strengthening 
public sector’s human resource management and employees’ accountability;  
Page  2
c)  improving efficiency and transparency in public infrastructure management; and   
d) supporting governance reforms in the education sector to promote accountability and 
transparency in the use of public education funds.   
 
In addition, the program would help create a culture of public participation in the monitoring of 
economic governance reforms.  These efforts would have a positive impact on public service provision, 
improved environment for private sector activity
 and the country’s absorption capacity for external 
resources.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed grant would support governance reforms in the areas of (i) public financial management 
and procurement; (ii) public infrastructure management; (iii) human resource management and anti-
corruption initiatives; (iv) education sector; and (v) civil society monitoring of economic governance 
reforms.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not considered likely to cause any 
significant immediate effects on the country’s environment, forest and other natural resources. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
0 
IDA Grant 
23 
 Total 
23 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Antonella Bassani 
Title: Lead Economist and Sector Leader, PREM 
Tel: (202) 473-1468 
Fax: (202) 676 1494 
Email: 
Abassani@worldbank.org
