                                                Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo. 43731-HT




                         FOODPRICECRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND

                            SUPPLEMENTALFINANCING DOCUMENT

                                                  FORA

                            PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCING

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$10MILLION

                                                    TO

                                      THE REPUBLIC OFHAITI

                                                    FOR

            THE SECONDECONOMIC GOVERNANCEREFORMOPERATION



                                               May 19,2008




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementSector Unit
SustainableDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion



This document has arestricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                    (as o fMay 7,2008)
                           Currency unit = Gourdes
                                   US$1 =38.5


                          GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                 October 1- September 30


                            WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                       Metric System


                        ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS


AAA        Analytical andAdvisory Activities
BRH        CentralBank ofHaiti (Barquede la Rkpublique d'Hazti)
CARICOM    CaribbeanCommunity
CNSA       National Food Security Coordination Unit (Coordination Nationale de la Sdcuritd
           Alimentaire)
CSCCA      Supreme Audit Institution (Cours Supkrieure des Comptes et du Contentieux
           AdministratiJl
DR         Dominican Republic
DSNCRP     National Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction(Document de Stratkgie Nationale
           pour la Croissance et la Reduction de la Pauvrete?
EGTAG      Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
EGRO       EconomicGovernanceReform Operation
EU         EuropeanUnion
FA0        Food and Agricultural Organization
GFRP       Global Food Crisis Response Program
HIPC       Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IFRS       InternationalFinancialReporting Standards
IMF        InternationalMonetary Fund
LICUS      Low-Income Countries Under Stress
MEF        MinistryofEconomyandFinance
MINUSTAH-  UnitedNations Stabilization Mission inHaiti
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OCHA       Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
OMRH    -  Management Office ofHumanResources
PRGF       Poverty ReductionandGrowthFacility
PRSP       PovertyReduction StrategyPaper
UNDP       United Nations DevelopmentProgramme
UNICEF     UnitedNations Children's Fund
USAID   -- United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
WFP        World FoodProgramme

                                             THEREPUBLIC OFHAITI

                                          SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
        FORTHE SECONDECONOMIC                                  GOVERNANCE                    REFORMOPERATION
                                      DEVELOPMENT                     POLICY GRANT


                                                TABLEOFCONTENTS


I ECONOMIC.POLITICALANDSOCIALCONTEXT
 .                                                                                                ..................................................     1

I1 FOODCRISIS
 .                        ......................................................................................................................         2

I11 GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSETOTHECRISIS
  .                                                                                      ..........................................................      3

IV BANK'S RESPONSEAND STRATEGY
  .                                                                     ..........................................................................       4

V.                                                                                                                               .......................
  A EconomicPerformance.......................................................................................................
   .THE  SECONDECONOMICGOVERNANCEREFORMPROGRAM                                                                                                           5

  B ReformProgress ................................................................................................................. 7
  C Povertyand SocialImpactAnalysis................................................................................... 9
   ..                                                                                                                                                    5



VI RATIONALEFORPROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALFINANCING
  .                                                                                                                     ...............................  9

VI1 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                              ....................................................................
  A Terms ofthe SupplementalFinancing..............................................................................                                      10
  B FundsFlow andAuditing Requirementsfor the SupplementalFinancing..................10
   ..
   .
  C.EnvironmentalAspects                                                                                                                                 10
                                         ...................................................................................................... 11

VI1 BENEFITSAND RISKS                       ...................................................................................................
  A Benefits ................................................................................................................................
   ..                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                         11
  B.Risks.....................................................................................................................................           11

                                                              TABLES

Table 1:SelectedMacroeconomicIndicators                             ..........................................................                           6


                                                            ANNEXES

ANNEX 1:SocialAssistanceProgramsand DonorEfforts to Respondto the FoodCrisis in
         Haiti    ..............................................................................................                                        13

ANNEX 2: Haitiat a Glance              .............................................................................                                    16

ANNEX 3: KeyEconomicIndicators                  ................................................................      ..19

ANNEX 4: ImplementationStatus of SecondTranche Conditions..                               ...........................  .20

ANNEX 5: IMFPressRelease              ............................................................................      25




                                       Vice President           PamelaCox
                                     Country Director           Yvonne M.Tsikata
                                      Sector Directors          Marcel0 Giugale and Laura Tuck
                                     Sector Managers            Jaime Saavedraand Ethel Sennhauser
                                  Task TeamLeaders         -----BenuBidani(LCSPR) andGany Charlier (LCSAR)

The team included Benu Bidani (Lead Economist, LCSPR), Gany Charlier (Sr. Operations Officer, LCSAR),
Emmanuel Pinto Moreira (Senior Economist, LSCPE), David Warren (Lead Social Protection Specialist,
LCSHS) Peter Holland (Operations Officer, LCSHE), Diego Arias (Agricultural Economist, LCSAR), Julie
Dana (Technical Specialist, ARD), Gabriel Demombynes (Economist, LSCPP), Mary Morrison (Country
Officer, LCC3C), Solange Alliali (Sr. Counsel, LEGLA), Joseph Denis(Consultant, LCCHT), Fily Sissoko (Sr.
Financial Management Specialist, LCSFM), Patricia MacGowan (Sr. Procurement Specialist, LSCPT), Ross
Gartley (Consultant, LCSUW),        Vanessa Paul (Operations Analyst,                LCC3C),      Alejandro CedeAo
(Communications Officer, LCC3C) and Martha Garcia (Team Assistant, LCSPE).

                             THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                           SUPPLEMENTALFINANCING
      FOR THE SECOND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCEREFORM OPERATION

                  DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT SUMMARY


Borrower:          The RepublicofHaiti

ImplementingAgency: Ministryof Economy andFinance

Amount:            US$lO million

Terms:             Grant

Estimated
Disbursement:      US$10millionwill be disbursed ina singletranche upongrant effectiveness.

ProjectIDNumber    P112133

                         FOODPRICECRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND

                                 PROPOSED    SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
                                     TO THEREPUBLIC HAITIFOR
                                                          OF
                      THESECOND ECONOMICREFORM                OPERATION(EGRO11)



                      I. ECONOMIC,POLITICALANDSOCIALCONTEXT


1.      Haitihas longsufferedfrom politicalinstabilityand conflict. Inearly 2004, as armed groups,
including many former soldiers, advanced toward the capital in February o f that year, President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide resigned and left the country. A wave o f conflict, including widespread looting, left
thousands dead and much public and private property, includinginfrastructure, destroyed or looted.

2.      Haiti has made considerable progress in restoringpoliticaland social stability since 2004,
although there have been some setbacks in recent months. After two years under a transitional
government, Haiti successfully held presidential and parliamentary elections in 2006. President Rene
PrCval o f the Lespwa party won 51percent o f the presidential vote. H e appointed Prime Minister Jacques-
Edouard Alexis to head a six-party coalition government, which took office in May 2006. The 48th
legislaturewas opened inMay 2006, ending three years o f legislative paralysis - and strengthening checks
and balances in the political system. The new Parliament has passed numerous bills, including two
national budgets and a requirement for asset declaration by higher officials in public service. Municipal
elections were held in December 2006 and April 2007. However, partial Senate elections scheduled for
the end o f 2007 have been postponed due to restructuring o f the electoral council and the passage o f a
new electoral code and a new date for the elections has yet to be determined'. The term o f 10 senators
expired on May 08, 2008. Currently, there is a caretaker Government. President PrCval's April 27
nominee for Prime Minister, Mr.Ericq Pierre, was rejected by the lower house on May 12, 2008. The
nomination and ratification process must start over inaccordance with the Constitution.

3.      While the overall security situation remains fragile, it has improved markedly since
December 2006, when the Haitian National Police and the 9,000-strong UN peacekeeping force
(MINUSTAH) launched direct operations against major gang leaders inthe violent Port-au-Prince slums
o f Cite Soleil and Martissant. These areas have largely been returned to state control and most
development partners have resumed interventions (including World Bank financing o f school feeding and
urban community driven development activities in CitB Soleil). However, rates o f kidnapping and other
violent crimes remain a concern. In addition, the smugglingo f narcotics and weapons, amid weak border
control, undermines Haiti's security and stability.

4.      Haiti's economy has gradually recovered from the shocks of 2004 (political turmoil and
floods). Growth is estimated at 3.2 percent in FY072. This is an improvement from 2.3 percent in
Haitian FY06.

5.      While greater macroeconomic stability and improved security laid the foundations for
growth, there is a pressing need for quicker results on the ground, particularly in urban areas
susceptible to violence, to reduce poverty and cement stability. Economic growth has not been rapid

 The new electoral law has beenapprovedby both chambers ofthe Parliament inMay 2008. The next step is
promulgation ofthe law by the President.
 The Haitian fiscal year 2007 runs from October 1,2006 to September30,2007.


                                                       1

enough to create many jobs. While development programs are generally advancing well, the delivery o f
assistance has been slowed by many factors, including limited government and private sector
implementation capacity, as well as ongoing violence. As a result, four years into the current recovery
effort, most Haitians have yet to enjoy a peace dividend. Along with the persistent weakness o f political
and public sector institutions, the potential for popular discontent contributes to a highrisk o f relapse into
social and political upheaval, which could negatively affect the Government's capacity to implementing
its reform program.

6.       To accelerate growth and reduce high inequality and poverty, the Government has
launched an ambitious program, articulated most recently in the 2007 Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) entitled "Document de Stratkgie Nationale pour la Croissance et la Reduction de la
Pauvretk, DSNCRP" including key economic governance reforms. The Government's continued efforts
to implement its reform program have received strong support from the international community. The
good policy track record under the IMF's Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance (2005) helped Haiti
benefit from the first three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program (starting
November 2006). InNovember 2006, Haiti qualified for debt relief under the EnhancedHeavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative by reaching the decision point.

7.       Economic governance reforms since 2004 have been supported by IDA through policy
advice and financial assistance. This has included an Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO
I,ofUS$61millionfullydisbursedin2006),theEGROI1(thefirsttrancheofUS$10millionwhichwas
disbursed in August 2007), two ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants (EGTAG I
and 11, o f US$2 million each), a LICUS Economic Governance Grant (US$1.5 million), and selected
analytical reports. IDA-supported investment operations in education, community driven development
and rural water complement the support for the economic governance agenda and have been closely
coordinated with assistance provided by other donors, in particular Canada, EU, the IDB, IMF, and US..
Reform implementation under EGRO I1 has remained strong over the past year, despite the fragile
security situation and the food crisis.


                                           11.     FOOD CRISIS


8.     Domestic food prices have increased dramaticallysince late 2007. Food prices have recently
soared, provoking protests against President PrBval and the Government led by Prime Minister Alexis. In
March 2008, overall inflation was estimated at 16 percent, almost double the 2007 rate. Food inflation
more than tripled from 6.4 percent in July 2007 to 20 percent inMarch 2008. Price increases, especially
for basic food staples, accelerated inearly 2008.

9.     The rising cost of living in Haiti has fueled social and political discontent. In February 2008,
following (relatively peaceful) protests inPort-au-Prince and other cities, Prime Minister Alexis faced an
initial challenge in the Chamber of Deputies. However, on February 28 the lower house rejected a no-
confidence vote against him, defeating critics angry over the Government's handling o f the economy, in
particular a perceived failure to create jobs and control rising food prices. Prime Minister Alexis
subsequently announced a "Program o f Governmental Action against the High Cost o f Living", which
envisioned around $45 million o f emergency programs, including school feeding, public cafeterias and
agricultural input provision. As the Program was gearing up for implementation in early April, much
larger protests erupted in the southern city o f Les Cayes. These quickly turned violent and spread to the
capital, Port-au-Prince. By the time the protests subsided, six people had lost their lives (including a UN
peacekeeper), and several properties had been looted and ransacked.             On April 8, only a timely
intervention by UNpeacekeepers preventedprotestors from storming the Presidential Palace.


                                                       2

10.     On April 12, the Prime Minister faced a second challenge from legislators, this time in the
Senate. Of the 17 participating senators, 16 voted for the resignation o f Prime Minister Alexis. The
removal o f the Prime Minister, coupled with the simultaneous announcement by the President o f an
immediate reduction in the price o f rice, quelled protests. However, the situation remains fragile and
volatile. Mr. Alexis and his Government remain in a caretaker capacity until a successor and a new
cabinet are confirmed. On April 27, President Pr6val nominated Ericq Pierre as Prime Minister. While
approved by the Senate, Mr. Pierre was rejected by the lower house on May 12. The nomination and
ratification process must start over inaccordance with the Constitution.


                        111. GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSETO THE CRISIS


11.     Prior to the riots of early April, a multi-sectoralworking group, chaired by the Prime
Minister,had been developinga comprehensive strategy to dealwith risingfood prices. This group,
organized at the technical level by the National Food Security Coordination Unit (CNSA), includes the
Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Natural Resources, the Prime Minister's Office, United
Nations agencies (FAO, OCHA, UNDP, UNICEF and WFP) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). The working group drafted a Plan o f Response to Food Insecurity
for the period o f April to September 2008. This document incorporates earlier plans set out in the
Government's Program o f Action against the High Cost o f Living, announced in February. The Plan
identified 1.4 millionpeople mo$taffected by highfood prices inthe short run and sets out three priority
action areas for improving food security in the short term: (i)employment generation through labor-
intensive works; (ii)   agricultural inputs to revitalize production, and (iii)expansion o f food assistance
programs (including feeding programs for schoolchildren, mothers and infants) for six months.

12.     The riots of April 2008 led the Governmentto announce a temporary subsidy to reduce the
price of rice, as an emergency measure. N o recent household survey data are available3. However,
analysis o f the 2001 household data shows that the rice subsidy inHaiti i s reasonably well-targeted to the
poor. Almost all Haitian households (86 percent in the survey) consume rice, and rice expenditure as a
percentage o f income i s much higher among the poorest Haitians. Roughly 70 percent o f the rice i s
consumed by those living on less than $2 a day (76 percent o f the p~pulation)~.The Government sees the
subsidy as temporary measure (up to six months) to smooth the transition to the environment o f higher
food prices and it i s currently exploring strategies to adjust gradually to market prices, while increasing
support to farmers to help boost domestic output. High taxes on rice in the Dominican Republic (DR)
create incentives for rice imported to Haiti to find its way to the DR. Estimates indicate that this is inthe
range o f 5-8 percent o f total imports5. The Haitian Government has recently banned the export o f rice,
but it is unclear how effectively the borderscan be monitored.

13.     As noted above, the Governmentis also working with donors to scale up existing safety net
programs including school feeding programs, mother-child programs, and labor intensive public
works (see Annex 1). As a complementary response, the Government would like to scale up support for
agricultural inputs and investments. The key agencies engaged in supporting safety nets and agriculture



 A newhouseholdsurvey is currently beingconductedandwillprovide updatedpoverty estimates and information
onthe distribution of consumptionofrice.
 The distribution ofthe subsidy is the same as the distribution ofrice consumptionby the population.
 Note de Travail -Observatoire des echanges de produitsagricole avec la RepubliqueDominicaine, LAREHDO,
Avril, 2008. Giventhe difficulty ingetting accurate estimates ofthis cross-border trade, there is uncertaintyaround
these numbers.


                                                          3

include the UnitedNations (FAO, OCHA, UNDP, UNICEF and WFP), USAID, and multilateral agencies
such as the IDBand World Bank.

14.    The estimated cost of the Government's responseto the food pricecrisis for the remainderof
this fiscal year is preliminary. This includes an estimated US$30 million for the rice subsidy, which is
intended to ease immediate social pressures and allow time for the implementation o f more sustainable
relief programs, including targeted social assistance programs and measures to boost agricultural output
during the fall harvest (August-December 2008). The estimates for the implementation of the targeted
social assistance programs and agricultural measures are less precise. This proposed supplemental
operation would cover part o f the financing gap. Incremental resources o f around US$10 million are
estimated to be forthcoming from the CARICOM. In addition, the IDB has accelerated approval o f
US$27 milliono f its ongoing budget support to support the Government's emergency response and other
donors such as USAID, CIDA, Japan and France have also brought forward their projects to help the
Government respond to the food price crisis (see Annex 1). A more accurate estimate o f the financing
gap i s expected by early June.


                             IV. BANK'S RESPONSEAND STRATEGY


15.    In April 2008, the Bank announced its intentionto providea US$10 million additionalgrant
to Haiti. This grant to Haiti, provided as a supplement to the EGRO I1operation, will be financed from
the FoodPrice Crisis Response Program Trust Fundbeingestablished by the Bank from IBRDsurplusto
channel grant financing to especially vulnerable countries affected by the crisis. The establishment o f this
Trust Fund is scheduled for Board presentation at the same time as this operation and thus the US$10
million grant to Haiti i s contingent upon the approval o f the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund. In
addition, financing out o f the Trust Fund will be subject to the Board o f Governors approval o f the
allocation o f IBRDsurplus for this purpose.

16.     The aim will be to safeguard the ongoing reform and poverty reduction program that the
EGRO series is supporting, by helping to partially fill the unanticipatedfinancing gap created by
the food price crisis. The food crisis has put pressure on the state to increase its expenditures on social
assistance, directly (through school feeding programs, mother-child programs, and labor intensive public
works) and indirectly (through subsidies on food commodities, such as rice).             In the short term,
accommodating that pressure i s criticalto preserve the political stability necessary to continue progress in
implementing the policy and institutional reforms supported by the EGRO series, and in some cases, to
protect reforms that have already been achieved. For that reason, the Bank will join other donors (IDB
and CARICOM) in providing additional fast-disbursing financing on an emergency basis. The overall
intention o f the Bank will be to open a window o f opportunity to: (i)deepen and extend the social
assistance network; (ii)target subsidies; (iii)
                                              elicit an income-enhancing supply response among farmers
(especially poor ones); (iv) start a dialogue for better coordinated action across the island (Haiti-
Dominican Republic); and (v) design and implement insurance mechanisms that could hedge the country
against a protracted and/or repeated episode o f food inflation.

17.    In addition, the Bankwill also contributeto the Government'sefforts to address the crisis by
extending the school feeding program underway through the Education for All project. The
program will be adapted to cover some children over the summer break and to expand coverage o f the
program inthe new school year starting September 2008.

18.    The Bank will provide technical assistance to the Government to develop a medium-term
solution of improved agricultural productivity and a well functioning safety net. A first area of


                                                     4

technical assistance will focus on options for making food available at prices affordable to the poor, on
complementary price risk management strategies, and on moving from an emergency approach to a more
sustainable medium term approach.          A second area o f technical assistance will be addressing the
constraints to realizing Haiti's potential in agriculture, a key vector o f growth in the Government's PRSP
-and focus ofitsmedium-termresponseto the crisis. A thirdareaoffocus will bethe designofan
appropriate social protection system for Haiti. This crisis has further exposed the limitations o f Haiti's
existing safety net mechanisms, which are not sufficiently targeted to reachthe poorest.


            V.      THE SECONDECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORMPROGRAM


19.    EGRO I1 is the second in a series of development policy operations to support the
implementationof Haiti's economic governancereform program, as spelled out inthe Interim PRSP
and the recently prepared full PRSP, the Document de Strate`gie Nationale pour la Croissance et la
Re`duction de la Pauvrete` (DSNCRP).        The DSNCRP emphasizes sustained, rapid growth as the main
vehicle for poverty reduction and i s based on three pillars: (i)accelerating growth and maintaining
macroeconomic stability; (ii)    enhancing human development, with a focus on the strengthening o f social
sectors to improve the delivery o f basic social services; and (iii)strengthening democratic and economic
governance, particularly through improvingjustice and public security.

20.    The overallEGRO I1reformprogramis closelyalignedwith the three reformpillarsoutlined
in the DSNCRP. As poor economic governance and slow growth are at the root of high poverty
incidence, the main thrust o f the DSNCRP agenda, and EGRO 11, which preceded it but i s largely
consistent, centers on a set o f policy reforms to improve economic governance and accelerate and sustain
rapid growth. The EGRO I1program focuses on critical policy reforms in the areas of public financial
management and procurement, human resource management, public infrastructure management, and
governance reform ineducation.

21.    EGRO 11, in an amount of US$23 million, was approved by the Board in January 2007 and
its first tranche of US$10 million disbursed in August 20076. As detailed in Section B below, the
Government i s maintaining implementation o f the conditions for release o f the first tranche and is making
overall satisfactory progress towards the conditions for release o f the second tranche.

       A. RecentEconomicPerformance

22.    SinceEGRO I1was approved, economic performancehas beengood. Real GDPwas estimated
to have risen by 3.2 percent inFY2007 (October-September), more than one percentage point greater than
in FY2005 (1.8 percent) helped by macroeconomic stability and international economic assistance.
Growth was driven by private consumption, which benefited from the more stable environment and
strong remittances. Public investment also contributedto growth.

23.    However, food and fuel prices have dramatically increased since late 2007, with adverse
macroeconomic and fiscal impacts. Preliminary data suggest a lower projected growth rate o f 2.5
percent in FY2008 against 3.7 percent projected previously (see Table 1). This decline in growth rate is
linkedto a combination o f factors, including the damage from the tropical storms and the recent riots that
have shaken private sector confidence, which are likely to result in lower levels o f foreign direct
investment (FDI) and domestic investment than originally expected. Net exports are also projected to be

  The disbursement ofthe first tranche ofEGROI1was linkedto a portfolio-wide issue on Parliamentaryapproval,
which has now beenresolved.


                                                        5

significantly more negative than previously assumed. High food and fuel prices have led to higher
inflation, a deteriorating trade balance, and a depreciating gourde. Inflationrose to 16.3 percent inMarch
2008, up from 7.9percent in September 2007. Food, fuel andpublic transportation account for two-thirds
ofHaiti's ConsumerPrice Index. Food prices have beendriven up by international price increasesas well
as storms and flooding in late 2007, which caused considerable damage to the local agricultural sector.
The trade deficit widened by US$185 million (2.5 percent of annual GDP) in the first half of FY2008
compared to the previous year, largely because of higher import bills for food and fuels, particularly oil.
The current account deterioratedsomewhat less, aidedby rising private remittances, which have not been
affected so far by the downturn in the U.S. economy. With demand for foreign currency rising, the
gourde reversed its nominal appreciation trend and weakened by about 10 percent against the dollar
between September 2007 and March 2008. Because of Haiti's relatively strong exchange rate pass
through, the weakness ofthe gourde is likely adding to observed inflationary pressure.
                                      Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                            (Fiscal year ending September 30)

        Nominal GDP (2007): US$ 6.0 billion                                       GDPper capita (2007): US$660
        Population (2006): 9.1million                                             Adultliteracy (2005): 53 percent
        Share ofpop. living withless than $1 a day (2003): 54 percent             Unemploymentrate (2003): 27 percent


                                                                         2006        2007                 2008            2009
                                                                                     Prel.       Feb 2008 05/16/2008      Proj.


                                            (change over previous year unless otherwise stated)

        GDP at constant prices                                               2.3            3.2         3.7         2.5       4.0
        Consumer prices (period average)                                    14.2            9.0         9.7        14.5      11.5
        Consumer prices (end-of-period)                                     12.4             7.9        9.0        16.0       9.5

                                                  (percent o f GDP, unless otherwise stated)

        Overall balance 1/                                                   -0.9           -0.6        -1.0       -2.3       -2.9
        Overall balance (excl. grants)                                       -4.4           -5.5        -5.9       -7.4       -6.6

        Total revenue and grants                                            13.5            15.1        16.9       15.8      15.2
         Total revenue                                                      10.0            10.3        12.1       10.6      11.5
        Total expenditure 2/                                                14.4            15.7        17.9       18.1      18.1
         Current expenditure                                                  9.1            8.9        10.4       11.2      10.2
           Transfers andsubsidies                                             2.8            2.4         2.2        3.4        2.2
             o/w Rice subsidy                                                  ...            ...         ...       0.4         ...
             o/w Other emergency programs                                      ...            ...         ...       1.1         ...
          Capital expenditure                                                 5.3            6.8         7.6        6.9        7.8

        External current account balance (incl. official grants)             -0.4           -1.1        -1.3       -3.2       -3.0
        External current account balance (excl. official grants)             -8.2           -7.6        -7.5       -9.6       -8.0
          Inmonths o fimports o fthe following year                           1.7            2.4         2.7        2.5        2.7

                                                  (millions o fUS$, unless otherwise stated)

        Exchange rate (gourdes per dollar, end-of-period)                   39.1            36.4          ...         ...
                                                                                                                                I..


        Nominal GDP (millions o f gourdes)                               200,456       225,560     256,594      264,722   306,972
        Nominal GDP (millions o f dollars)                                 4,836          6,031       7,128       7,353     7,382

        Sources: Ministry o fEconomy andFinance; Bank o fthe Republic o fHaiti; andFundstaff estimates.
        1/ From2009 onward, budget grants are assumed zero untilfirm donor commitments are forthcoming.
        2/ Commitment basis except for domestically financed capital expenditure, which is reported on cash basis ffom 2007 on.

Note: This macroeconomicframework is preliminary and an updatedframework is expectedby early June 2008




                                                                       6

24.   Despite these negative shocks, macroeconomic stability has been broadly maintained. The
Ih4F supported-PRGF program is on track. The program performance during the first half of FY2008
(October 2007-March 2008) was satisfactory.             Preliminary data indicate that most quantitative
performance criteria o f the program were met, albeit with much narrower margins than at previous test
dates. Most structural conditionality was implemented on time. The third review o f the program is
currently being conducted, during which the macroeconomic outlook for 2008-2009 will be revised and
the IMFwill consider an increase inbalance o f payments support under the program.

25.   Expenditure execution, a weak point in the past, picked up and exceeded revenue growth.
Revenues rose 18 percent during the first half o f FY2008 compared to a budget target o f 30 percent.
Slow implementation o f modernization plans for customs and the internal revenue service contributed to
less-than-programmed revenue intake. In addition, budget support disbursements fell short by about 0.3
percent o f annual GDP. Expenditures remained below budget but nonetheless experienced a sharp
acceleration. In addition, a substantial portion o f expenditures that were committed in the last month o f
FY2007 appears to have been executed. Overall, these outcomes left the fiscal balance (excluding foreign
financed projects and project grants) broadly inbalance.

       B. ReformProgress

26.   The economic governance reforms started under EGRO Ihave been maintained, and the
Governmentis makingsatisfactory progress in implementingthe programsupported by EGRO 11,
despite some unevennessacross the various policy areas of the program. The status of compliance
and prospectivecompliance with the second tranche release conditions o f EGRO I1i s set out below and in
further detail in Annex 4. Overall, two of nine second tranche release conditions o f EGRO I1have been
satisfactorily completed and significant progress has been observed in another four out o f nine conditions,
which are expected to be completed by end-July 2008. Progress inthe remaining three has been slow and
completion i s projected for fall 2008. Inaddition, full compliance with the first tranche release conditions
o f EGROI1is beingmaintained, without reversal.

27.    Significant progress has been made in public financial management reform. Key areas of
progress include budget preparation,execution, and control. The FY2008 budget was submitted to
Parliament before the start o f the fiscal year. It reflects the Government's development priorities. The
share of poverty-reducing spending inthe FY2008 budget i s estimated at 56 percent, up from 43 percent
inFY2007. While budget executionwas slow inthe first quarter of FY2008, itaccelerated inthe second
quarter. As o f end-March 2008, more than 40 percent o f the total Government budget was spent, with
about 50 percent o f the poverty-reducing spending executed. To ensure the sustainability o f the large
road investments currently beingundertaken, the Government is making efforts to establisha sustainable
flow of resources to finance road maintenance activities. To this end, the FY2008 budget law also
includes a specific line for recurrent budget allocation for the Road Maintenance Fund(Fonds d 'Entretien
Routier, FER)as well as a line item for counterpart funds o f about 9 million gourdes. The Government i s
committed to preparing and submitting the budget law to Parliament before the beginning o f the fiscal
year and in conformity with the PRSPpriorities. It aims to design the FY2009 budget law inline with the
recently prepared DSNCRP and submit it to Parliament before end-September 2008. To this end, a
committee is in place and has started the preparation o f the FY2009 budget law together with a revised
FY2008 budget law.

28.   To accelerate budget execution, the Government has stepped up its efforts to recruit public
accountants and financial comptrollers, which will strengthen the capacity of line ministries,
departments and agencies involved in the spending chain. In addition to the 9 public accountants
recruited in FY2007, 10 out o f the 30 accountants trained in FY2007 were deployed in line ministries in
FY2008. At the same time, 8 financial comptrollers were deployed in line ministries. Moreover, during


                                                       7

FY2008, the Government has continuedto strengthen public expenditure management by expandingthe
integrated financial management system (SYSDEP) to all line ministries. A manual of procedures for
budget execution is beingdevelopedwith technical assistance funded by the Bank.

29.     Budget control mechanisms have also been significantly strengthened. The draft Budget
Review Law (Loi de R2glement) for FY2006 prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
was reviewed by the Supreme Audit Institution (Cours Supkrieure des Comptes et du Contentiem
Administratij CSCCA). A reviseddraft ofthat BudgetReview Law completedinend-April 2008 is being
reviewed by the CSCCA. Once the iterative process between CSCCA and MEF is completed7,the draft
Budget Review Law accompanied by the CSCCA's legal opinion will be transmittedby the MEF to the
Parliament for adoption. The 2004 and 2005 treasury accounts were audited by CSCCA and the draft
audit reports were submittedfor quality review to international consultants. CSCCA is inthe process of
integratingthese comments and is expectedto producethe audit reportsby the end of July 2008.

30.     In the area of public procurement, progress has been slow due to delays encountered in
submitting the new draft ProcurementLaw to Parliament. However, partial adoption of improved
procedures has occurreddespite the delays in submission of the new law to Parliament. Inaddition, the
standard bidding documents and manuals have already been introducedto government procurementstaff
(including members of Commissions Ministerielles and Commissions Specialise'es) through a series of
seminars in2007.

31.     Measures have also been taken to strengthen human resource management in the public
sector and accountability of state employees, though progress has been slow. The Government has
launchedthe process of updating the registry of state employees. The selection process of the firm in
charge of updating and improving the existing registry of state employees is well advanced and is
expected to be completed by end-May 2008. The system, applicability, and procedures for new merit-
based appointments and promotions will be available for the Management Office of Human Resources
( O W ) by end-September 2008. The strategic framework for public administrationreforms and several
ar&teswhich establishthe different functions of OMRHhave beenprepared. The ar&tewhich defines the
organizationand functioning ofthe ConseilSupe'rieur de 1'Administration et de la Fonction Publique was
approved in March 2008. Another ar&tewhich defines the organization and functioning of OMRH will
be issuedby the PrimeMinister by September 2008.

32.     Important steps have been made to advancethe adoptionof the anti-corruptionstrategy. An
anti-corruptionsurvey was conductedand the results were disseminated at a workshop in Port-au-Prince
in August 2007, followed by participatory seminar series organized in provinces between October and
November2007. The next critical step is the adoptionofthe anti-corruptionstrategy. This is expectedto
take place by end-June 2008. The Government is also committed to widely disseminate the anti-
corruption strategy through the posting of the strategy on the MEF website and additional dissemination
events financedbythe Bank EGTAGproject.

33.      Improving efficiency and transparency in public infrastructure management has been a
challenge. Important progress was made during the past two years to improve financial transparency,
performance, and procurementof public utilities. Two competitive biddingprocesseswere completedfor
the provision of energy in the provinces and Port-au-Prince in 2007 and 2008. However, the pace of
implementingthese new procedures has recently faced significant challenges due to conflicting interests
involved in setting the price and modalities of energy supply contracts. Bank staff are collaborating


       ~                   ~~



7According to the information providedboththe MEFand CSCCA, this iteration processshouldbe completed
within three months Le. by the end of July 2008.


                                                    8

closely with the Government to find appropriate solutions to move the reform program forward in the
energy sector.

        C. Povertyand SocialImpactAnalysis

34.     The EGRO IIoperationis expected to have a significant positiveimpact in terms of poverty
reduction, albeit indirectly, through strengthening the core functions and processesof the state'. It
i s not yet possible to identify whether the reform program has been accompanied by declines in poverty.
A new survey later thisyear will make it possible to produce the first new estimates ofpoverty rates since
2001. In light o f the stability and economic growth o f the last few years, it i s likely that poverty has
declined. However, given the large share o f food in the consumption o f the poor, the recent rise in food
prices has almost certainly increased the number o f poor and increased the depth o f poverty for those
living belowthe poverty line.


                 VI. RATIONALEFORPROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING


35.     The urgent need for public expendituresto respondto the food pricecrisis in the wake of the
riots has resulted in higher financing requirementsthan originally anticipated. This supplemental
financing grant will help enable the Government to continue to make progress on the reform program
supported inEGRO I1which could otherwise bejeopardized by the unanticipated gap infinancing for the
2008 budget.

36.     The proposed SupplementalFinancing, which would contribute to the sustainability of the
overall reform program of the government, meets Bank requirementsfor SupplementalFinancing
under OP 8.60 as follows:

          (a)   Theprogram is being implemented in compliance withprovisions of the Grant Agreement.
Haiti is currently implementing the EGRO I1 reform program in full compliance with the covenants.
Specifically, the reform program i s proceeding incompliance with this agenda, with the expectation o f -
and Government's commitment to -completing such compliance before the EGRO I1closing date. The
evidence supporting this conclusion i s detailed in Annex 4 below.         The compliance track i s more
advanced for some conditions than for others, for which progress i s proving more difficult. Nevertheless,
on balance and in view o f the challenging country circumstances, management's judgment is that
progress is sufficient to meet OP 8.60 requirements for supplemental financing.

         (b) The borrower is unable to obtain suflcient fundsfrom other lenders on reasonable terms or
in a reasonable time. The Government has approached donors to support its crisis response program.
Donor assistance (e.g. Canada, USAID) has been forthcoming, primarily for supporting NGO and UN
agency implemented programs for mother and child programs and labor intensive foodhash for work
public works programs. The IDB has accelerated disbursement o f its budget support operations, and has
ongoing agricultural projects which can support agricultural productivity. Nonetheless, while an updated
macroeconomic framework i s not yet available, preliminary analysis suggests that even with this donor
financing, (including this grant), Haitiwould face a financing gap o f about US$30 milliong.




8 See ReportNo. 38235-HT for adiscussionofthe poverty and social impactsunder EGRO 11.
  The fmancinggap will dependonthe executioncapacity of the Governmentand donor programs andthe
availability of donor financing.


                                                      9

        (c)   The time available is too short to process a firther ffeestanding Bank credit. The
Supplemental Financingoption would enable the Bank to deliver program support in a timely manner.
The second tranche of the EGRO I1is not expected to disburse before October 2008 which the Bank
considers too lateto addressthe Government's pressingneeds.

         (d) The borrower is committed to the program and the implementing agencies have
demonstrated competence in carrying it out. The Government i s committedto a medium term poverty
reduction strategy, the DSNCRP. Its performance in pursuing macroeconomic stability and structural
policiesfor growth and povertyreductiontogether with its overall satisfactoryprogress in implementing
the EGROprogram, includingits stepsto fulfill the conditionsfor disbursingthe secondEGROI1tranche
demonstrateitscontinuingcommitment to the policyprogram.


                           VI1 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS



       A.    Termsof the SupplementalFinancing
37.    Apart from the standard requirement of a legal opinion, no conditions will apply to this
proposed SupplementalFinancingother than that the Government continue to maintaina satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework and make overall satisfactoryprogress in implementingthe EGRO I1
policyprogram.

       B.    FundsFlow and AuditingRequirementsfor the SupplementalFinancing

b.       Supplemental proceeds will be deposited in a deposit account at the Central Bank of Haiti into
which the SupplementalFinancingproceeds will be disbursed on a single tranche basis. Disbursements
would not be linkedto any specific purchases. The proceeds of the Grant would not be usedto finance
expenditures excludedunderthe SupplementalFinancingAgreement.

c.       The second review of the PovertyReductionand GrowthFacility (PRGF), done in March 2008
by the IMF, noted that priority recommendations of the March 2007 Safeguard Assessment had been
implemented. An external audit committee was established and a gap analysis of the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) was undertaken. In addition, the IMF completedthe Financial
System Stability Assessment in February 2008. The report makes a number of recommendations,
includingthe need to strengthen the audit of the Central Bank, Banque de la Re`publique d`Hazti (BRH)
and to move toward full application of the IFRS. Neither report, however, reveals any systemic
vulnerabilitiesthat would signal that the control environmentinto which the grant proceeds will flow is
not adequate.

d.       In accordance with the Bank's policy and given the remainingweaknesses in the Central Bank
control environment, the deposit account would be auditedon terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
within four months of disbursement, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bankand by an independentauditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit will certify that:
(a) the exact sums disbursed by the Bank with respect to the Supplemental Financing are paid into the
designated foreign currency DepositAccount ofthe Government kept inthe CentralBankexclusively for
this purpose, that forms part of the general reserves of the country, and no sums are kept inor paidinto
the DepositAccount other than those disbursed by the Bank for this particular development policy grant;
(b) all withdrawalsfrom the foreigncurrencyDepositAccount are for legitimatebudgetarypurposes and
not to finance expenditures on the Bank's negative list; and (c) the financial statements of the Deposit
Account are produced ina format acceptable to the Bank.


                                                    10

       C.      EnvironmentalAspects

e.      As noted in the EGRO I1 program document, the reforms supported by the proposed
supplementalgrant,which focus largelyon economic governanceissues,are not considered likelyto
cause any significant effects on the country's environment, forests and other natural resources, but
would indirectly contribute to increasingthe environmental sustainability o f the energy sector".


                                      VI11 BENEFITSAND RISKS


       A.      Benefits

f.      The provision of timely, flexible support to the Government of Haiti will enable the
Government to respond quickly to the socio-economic and political crisis that it is facing.                The
provision o f quick disbursing financing will enable the Government to maintain the gains in
macroeconomic stability, sustain the critical reforms under EGRO 11, and undertake critical expenditures
to respondto the food price shock, while maintaining satisfactory progress in implementing the EGRO I1
program. The development community i s supporting Haiti's medium term poverty reduction strategy,
and it is critical that the momentum o f the reform program i s maintained. Supplemental financing will
complement other support from bilateral and multilateral agencies for mitigating the risks to the overall
Haiti program. It will also support the Government's medium-term reform agenda for putting in place a
better safety net system that improves Haiti's resilience and responseto shocks.

       B.      R i s k s

g.      The risks to this operationare significant. Haiti's recovery is fragile. The protests over rising
food prices put two years o f hard-won macroeconomic stability and improved security at risk, and the
possibility o f renewed protests over rising prices cannot be excluded.           The Government i s under
tremendous pressure to deliver visible assistance to the population. This operation i s a small part o f a
much bigger effort that is needed to scale up assistance to Haiti to consolidate and lock inthe early gains,
to deliver growth and jobs, and improve service delivery to the population. The risk remains that the
government's limited implementation capacity will impede delivering concrete results on the ground in
line with the expectations o f the population, jeopardizing social and political stability. The international
environment, with high prices o f energy and food projected at least for the foreseeable future", will
continue to generate pressures for policy responses that may be sub-optimal but politically expedient.
Thus, despite the Government's intentionto gradually bringdomestic rice prices inline with international
import parity prices, this could be difficult. The Bank will provide technical assistance to accompany the
Government, in co-ordination with other partners, on the medium term development issues on agriculture,
safety nets and price risk management strategies. Moreover, the delay inappointing a new prime minister
could further slow the implementation o f some o f the reforms supported by EGRO 11, most notably the
conditions o f the release o f the second tranche. However, the technical work has been completed for
most of the unmet conditions, and Bank staff have received reassurance from the authorities that the
implementation o fthe remaining conditions will be a top priority o f the new Government.




10See ReportNo. 38235-HT, page 34, for a discussion of the environmentalaspects relatedto EGRO 11.
l1Indicesofrealprices (2004 base) for mostfood commoditiessuchas rice and sugar are projectedto reachtheir
peaksonly in2010and decrease to their 2008 level or below only in2015 ---see: Risingfoodprices: policy options
and IVorld Bank response -Backgroundpaper for the Development Committee.;p.2


                                                      11

ANNEXES


ANNEX 1: SOCIALASSISTANCEPROGRAMSAND DONOREFFORTSTO RESPONDTO
THE FOODCRISISINHAITI

ANNEX 2: HAITIAT A GLANCE

ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMICINDICATORS

ANNEX 4: IMPLEMENTATIONSTATUSOF SECONDTRANCHECONDITIONS

ANNEX 5. IMFPRESSRELEASE:IMFEXECUTIVEBOARDAPPROVESSECONDREVIEW
UNDERTHE PRGFARRANGEMENT




                                12

                                                  ANNEX 1

         SocialAssistanceProgramsand Donor Efforts to Respondto the Food CrisisinHaiti

 1.      Based on the team's assessment o f existing safety net instruments and available funding, donors
 seem to be preparing to provide fundingto utilize whatever spare capacity there i s in existing instruments
 to channel resources to poor households (mainly food distribution for vulnerable groups and food or
 foodhash for work programs). The Bank intends to contribute to this effort-above         and beyond what
 will be provided through the EGRO I1 supplemental-by            advancing uncommitted funds under the
 Education for All (EFA) project to expand national school feeding programs to an additional 15,000
 children starting next September, and to extend feeding to 15,000 children during the summer months;
 these figures represent the maximum unutilized capacities.

 Additional and Re-allocatedDonorAssistance

 2.      Major donors are preparing additional or reallocatedaccelerated assistance to address the crisis,
 as summarized in the table below. This table reflects assistance in three broad categories-food        aid,
 workfare, and agricultural support. An additional column has been included for budget support.

 3.      The largest single contribution is set to be from the United States, which has pledged $200
 millionto the World Food Program's multi-country crisis appeal. Ofthis, U.S.authorities expect roughly
 $35 million to be earmarked to Haiti.

 4.      Much o f the funding presented, particularly in the category o f labor-intensive works has been
 reallocatedor accelerated under existing programs. Job creation through labor-intensive works has been a
 central element o fthe programs o f USAID and other major donors inHaiti since 2004.

          TableA1.1: PreliminaryEstimatesofAdditional and Re-allocatedDonorAssistance




                reallocated                    c. $35m via WFP
 Canada         C$2 million                    C$7m mother-child care;
                                               C $ l millionfood baskets
 IDB                                                                     $27m accelerated
 EU             c. 12meuros, o f which 7-
                8m accelerated
 France         2.4m euros                                               4 m euros'
 Spain          0.5m euros
 Venezuela                                     200 tons o f food




IJapan
 Note: These numbers are tentative.
 ''Thisamount may be project or budgetsupport.




                                                        13

MainSafety NetPrograms

5.      School feedinp Dropram: The National School Feeding Program (PNCS) is a government
program housed under the Ministry of Education.               The project sub-contracts non-governmental
organizations to provide school feeding to selected underserved areas throughout the country, using the
Haitian Poverty Map as a targeting mechanism. The World Bank i s currently financing school feeding
programs (up to $5 million) through the Education for All Project, a US$25 million IDA grant. The
program provides children with hot meals totaling 1,500 kilocalories per day, or 2/3 o f their
recommended daily intake.        For school year 2007-2008, approximately 30,000 children have been
participating in the program in the West (Cite Soleil and Belair), South, Artibonite, and Centre (thus, in
four of the ten regional Departments inHaiti). School-feeding services are sub-contracted to four NGOs,
under the supervision o f the PNCS. The other major donors inthis area are USAID and CIDA, funding
existing programs through WFP and international NGOs. None o f these donors are expected to provide
incremental resources to school feeding activities. A GIs coded maps shows the schools where each
donor/program i s active.

                                          School FeedingPrograms

    Schoolfeeding               Region                Current               Scaling up potential
       programs                                    Beneficiaries
PNCS                                           20,000
School lunches (PNCS     Central Plateau;      30,000 inschoolyear    15,000 for 3 monthsduring
runthrough EFA           West (Cite Soleil     2007/8                 sutnmer
program)                 and BelAire);
                         Anibonite; South                             Additional 15,000 in 2008/9
                                                                      schoolyear for 10 months
World FoodProgram                              300,000                30,000 additional
schoolfeeding

6.       There is scope for scaling up school feeding programs, both to cover the summer months
when children are out of school, and for the next school year.                     The Bank will advance
disbursements under the EFA program to utilize all available spare capacity in the national (PNCS)
program.

         Support for health and nutrition activities at "summer camps". When school ends, many o f the
         students currently benefiting from school feeding programs will suddenly be without a regular
         meal that they have been receiving duringthe year. The mission was told that for 60 percent o f
         the 30,000 children receiving school feeding under the EFA project, that feeding is the only food
         they receive. Thus, with incremental resources, the daily feeding programs (five days per week)
         for approximately half o f the number o f students currently fed under EFA, in the context o f
         summer camps, that are usually run by communities and/or NGOs could be scaled up. Thus, this
         program could be expanded by 15,000 beneficiaries at a cost o f $10/month for 3 months =
         $500,000.

         Scaling up school health and nutrition programs for the beginning o f the school year (Rentree
         Scolaire) in September 2008. September and the rentrCe tend to be flash points in terms o f
         pressures on families-middle      to end o f hurricane season, school fees coming due, and, this year,
         likely price volatility as the rice subsidy begins to be phased out. Availability o f school feeding
         could, at the margin, tilt the balance for families for whom the opportunity cost o f sending their
         child to school (versus putting hidher to work) i s high. This component would extend the
         existing school feeding program from 30,000 beneficiaries to 45,000-a         number that appears to



                                                        14

         be logistically possible, based on discussions with providers. The cost for 10 months, at a unit
         cost o f $10/month, would be $1,500,000. The WFP program is also seeking pledges to cover its
         current program o f 300,000 and to expand by an additional 30,000 children nextyear.

7.       Mother-childhealthwoprams:The World Food Program is implementing a program o f family
rations targeted at pregnant women, anemic mothers and underweight children under 5 years o f age inthe
North, Nord-east and West including urban areas such as Port-au-Prince, Cap-haitien, Fort-Liberte and
Ouanaminthe. The current coverage is about 65,000 primary beneficiaries, who each receive 3 rations,
for a total coverage o f around 200,000 people. The WFP program is around US$21 millionper year, and
the beneficiaries are served through health clinics. Resources are available to finance the program
through June 2008. France has contributed 3.4 million Euros and incremental financing from CIDA ($7
million) is likely to be available, but overall there is scope for WFP to scale up its program by around
10,000 primary beneficiaries.

8.       Labor intensive publicworks (foodkash for work): UNagencies (e.g. WFP) and USAID are
undertaking labor intensive public works programs. The food for work activities can be targeted to the
most food insecure areas such as North-West (Far West) or urban zones at risk o f civil unrest such as
Port-au-Prince, Gonaives, Les Cayes and Cap-Haitian. USAID is planning to disburse US$13-14 million
for this component in the next 6 months, through inpart advancing planned activities (US$8 million) and
reprogramming activities for vulnerable provincial cities and Port au Prince (US$5.6 million). WFP's
labor intensive workfare program is US$7 million over two years. Jobs are generated for 60 days per
person for about 260,000 people. WFP is likely to receive incremental funding from CIDA (US$2
million) to implement the food for work programs.

Needfor TechnicalAssistancefor the Developmentof a SocialProtectionSystem.

9.       The food price crisis has highlighted yet again the importance o f having an effective social
protection system in place with the ability to respond when the need arises. The Bank team will work
with Haitian counterparts to develop a more coherent and effective social protection systemthat responds
to Haiti's level of development and the nature of shocks it faces. This analysis would also consider the
feasibility o f a conditional cash transfer system. The International FoodPolicy Research Institute (IFPRI)
has recently conducted an analysis o f the possibilities for setting up a conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program in Haiti, and their report outlines some options. An effort to develop such a cash or conditional
cash transfer program, while more oriented toward development than short term emergency response,
would build on the Government's interest in learning from the crisis and buildinga more resilient social
protection system. The Bank plans to provide support to the Government in improving the social
protection system inHaitithrough AAA (probably NLTA), proposedfor FY09.




                                                      15

                                                                         ANNEX 2

 Haiti at a qlance                                                                                                                     5/6/08

                                                                                Latin
Key Development Indicators                                                  America       Low
                                                                  Haiti     & Carib.   income           Age distribution, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                              Male                Female

Population,mid-year(millions)                                      9.1           556    2,403          70-74
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                                 20,415     29,215         60-64
Populationgrowth(%)                                                1.7            1.3      1.8
Urbanpopulation(% of total population)                                            78        30         50-54
                                                                                                       4044

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   4.0          2,650    1,562         30-34

GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                  480          4,767      650         20-24

GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                            8,798    2,698         10-14
                                                                                                         0-4
GDP growth (%)                                                     2.3            5.5      8.0              20    15   10   5    0     5    10    15
GDP per capitagrowth(W)                                            0.6            4.2      6.1                              oercent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2006)

Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP, %)                           54              9
Povertyheadcountratioat $2 a day (PPP,%)                            78            22                   Under-5 mortalityrate (per 1,000)
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                                     72       59
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                                               26       75
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                                                50


Adult literacy,male(% of ages 15and older)                                         91       72          40

Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15 and older)                                     89       50          30

Gross primaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                                     120      108          20
Gross primaryenrollment,female (56 of age group)                                  116       96          10

Access to an improvedwater source(% of population)                                 91       75           0

Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                           77       36                    1990   1995   2000     2005


                                                                                                          OHai!! ( ) DLalin America &!he Caribbean


Net Aid Flows                                           1980      1990          2000     2006           1
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                  104       167            208      515          2rowth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3donors (in 2005):
  UnitedStates                                            35        50             91      154
  France                                                   7        32             11       82
  Canada                                                   5         10            20       82

Aid (56 of GNI)                                           7.2      5.9            5.4      11.7
Aid per capita (US$)

                                                                                                                                                    I
Long-Term EconomicTrends                                                                                     so         95          00

Consumerprices(annual% change)                          10.8       20.6           13.8     14.0
GDP implicit deflator(annual % change)                  21.4       14.1           13.5     16.6           -4-GDP          -GDPpercapita        (..)
                                                                                                                                                O5

Exchangerata (annualaverage, localper US$)                5.0      5.0           21.2      40.4
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)
                                                                                                          1980-90     1990-2000       2000-06
                                                                                                                (averageannualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year (millions)
GDP (US$ millions)                                      1,462     2864          3849     4,975                 -0.2         -1.5          -0.3
                                                                   (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                      25 2     25.4                 -0 1
Industry                                                                          147     15.8                 -1 7
  Manufacturing                                                                   8 0      7.8                 -1 7
Services                                                                         48 8     51.4                  0 9

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                   81.9       81 4           e63      91 3                 0 9
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure               10.1       8 0            7 4       9 0                -44
Gross capitalformation                                  16.9       13 0          26 0      28.8                -0 6

Exportsof goodsand services                             21.6       17 5           12 1     14.1                 1 2
Importsof goods andservices                             30.5       20 0           31 8     43.2                 2 3
Grosssavings                                                       6 4           21 7     27.2


Note Figuresin italicsarefor years otherthan those specified 2006 data are preliminary indicatesdata are not available
a Aid data are for 2005

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group(DECDG)




                                                                                  16

                                                 Haitiat A Glance(continued)                                               Haiti


Balance of Payments and Trade                   2ooo   2o06     Technology and Infrastructure                  2000    2005

                                                                Pavedroads (% of total)
(US$ millions)                                                                                                  24.3
                                                                Fixedline and mobilephone
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                   327     494     subscribers (per 1,000people)
Total merchandiseimports (ci9                  1,091   1,665    Hightechnology exports
Net trade in goods and services                 -852  -1,170     (% of manufacturedexports)                     3.5

Current account balance                         -260     -20
  as a % of GDP                                 6.8   -0.4%     Environment


Workers' remittances and                                        Agriculturalland (O hof landarea)                58      56
  compensationof employees(receipts)             578   1,002    Forestarea (56 of land area)
                                                                Nationallyprotectedareas(Ohof land area)

Reserves, includinggold                          272    337     Freshwater resourcesper capita (w.meters)          ..  1,524
                                                                Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internalresources)
Central Government Finance                                                                                       7.6


(% of GDP)                                                      C02 emissions per capita(mt)                    0.17    0.21

Current revenue(includinggrants)                 8.1    13.5    GDP per unitof energy use
  Tax revenue                                    7.5      6.4    (2000PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)            6.3
Current expenditure                                                                                                      5.6
                                                 8.0      9.1

Overall surplus/deficit                         -2.2     -0.9   Energy use per capita(kgof oil equivalent)      257     262


Highestmarginaltax rate (%)
  Individual
  Corporate

External Debt and Resource Flows

(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           1,169   1,463
Total debt service                               44       63
Debt relief(HIPC, MDRI)                           -        -
Total debt (% of GDP)                           30.4   29.3
Total debt service (% of exports)                4.0     8.5

Foreigndirectinvestment(net inflows)              13     160
Portfoiio equity (net inflows)                     0




                                                                   /US$ mil/ions)

                                                                   IBRD
                                                                    Totaldeb6outstandingand disbursed                0       0
                                                                     Disbursements                                   0       0
                                                                    Principalrepayments                              0
                                                                     Interestpayments                                0       aa

                                                                   IDA
                                                                    Toteldebt ouislendingand disbursed             480     504
                                                                    Disbursements                                    8       0
Private Sector Development                     2000    2006         Toteldebt service                                10     56

Time requiredto start a business (days)                  203       IFC (fiscalyear)
Costto start a business(% of GNI per capita)           1277         Totaldisbursedandoutstandingpottfolio            0      15
Time requiredto register property (days)          ---    683          of which IFC own account                       0      15
                                                                    Disbursementsfor IFC own account                 0      15
Ranked as a major constraint to business                            Portfoiiosales, prepaymentsand
  (% of managersSurveyedwho agreed)                                   rapaymentsfor IFC own account                  0       0
   n.a.
   n.a.                                                            MlGA
                                                                    Grossexposure                                    -
Stock marketcapitalization(Ohof GDP)                                New guarantees                                           --
                                                                                                                     I




DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group(DECDG)




                                                                   17

                                                        Haiti at a Glance (continued)

Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                               Haiti


Withselectedtargetsto achieve between 1990and 2015
(esbmafe closestto dateshown, +/- 2years)


Goal 1:halve the rates for $1 a day povertyand malnutrition                                          1990      1995              2000      2005
 Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP, % of populabon)
 Povertyheadcountratioat national povertyline (% of population)
 Share of incomeor consumption to the poorestqunitile (%)
 Prevalenceof malnutrition(% of children under5)

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling                              " "
 Pnmaryschool enrollment (net,%)
 Primarycompletion rate (% of relevantage group)                                                      28
 Secondaryschool enrollment (gross, %)                                                                21
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity ineducation and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primaryand secondaryeducation (%)
 Women employedin the nonagriculturalsector (% of nonagdwlturalemployment)
 Proportionof seats heldbywomen in national parliament(%)


Goal 4: reduce under4 mortality bytwo-thirds                                                     . .._
  Under-5 mortalityrate (per 1,000)
  Infantmortality rate (per 1,000live births)
  Measlesimmunization(proportionof one-yearoids immunized,%)

- 5:reducematernalmortalitybythree-fourths
Goal                                                                                              "
  Maternalmortalityratio(modeled estimate, per 100,000live births)
  Birthsattendedbyskilledhealthstaff (% of total)

Goal 6:haltand begin to reverse the spread of HIWAIDSand other major diseases
  Prevalenceof HIV (% of population ages 15-49)
  Contraceptiveprevalence(% of women ages 15-49)
  incidenceof tuberculosis (per 100,000people)
  Tuberculosiscases detected under DOTS (%)

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
  Accessto an improvedwater source (Oh of population)
  Access to improvedsanitation facilities(% of population)
  Forestarea (% of totallandarea)
  Nationallyprotectedareas (% of total landarea)
  C02 emissions (metnctons per capita)                                                                O f         0 1             0 2        a2
  GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                           9 3         6 6             6 3        5 6

Goal 8:develop a global partnership for development
  Fixedlineand mobile phone subscnbers (per 1,000people)
  Internetusers (per 1,000people)                                                                       0           0               3         70
  Personalcomputers(per 1000 people)
  Youth unemployment(% of total laborforce ages 15-24)
  IEducation indicators (x)                     I       Measles immunization(% of 1-yearolds)       I    CT indicators (per 1,000people)


                                                                                                          80 1
                                                                                                          70
                                                                                                          60
                                                                                                          50
                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                          30
                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                           0
                                                                   1990   1995    2000   2005                    ZOW         2002      2005
       +Primly        net enrolimentratio (..)
                                                                                                                nFixed+mobilesubscribers( )
                                                            0Haiti(..) 0LatinAmerica&the Caribbean              b3 internet users




Note: Figuresin italicsarefor years other than those specified...indicatesdata are not available.                                          5/6/08

DevelopmentEconomics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                                    18

                                  ANNEX 3: Selected Economic andFinancialIndicators


                                                         (Fiscal year ending September 30)

NominalGDP (2007): US$6.0 billion                                                  GDP per capita (2007): US$ 660
Population(2006): 9.1 million                                                     Adult literacy (2005): 53 percent
Shareof pop. living with less than $1 a day (2003): 54 percent                     Unemploymentrate (2003): 27 percent

                                                                           2006        2007                 2008             2009
                                                                                       Prel.       Feb2008      05/16/2008   Proj.


                                           (changeover previousyear unlessotherwise stated)
National income and prices
GDP at constant prices                                                         2.3           3.2            3.7         2.5      4.0
GDP deflator                                                                  16.6           9.0            9.7        14.5     11.5
Consumer prices (periodaverage)                                               14.2           9.0            9.7        14.5     11.5
Consumer prices (end-of-period)                                               12.4           7.9            9.0        16.0      9.5
External sector
Exports (f.0.b.)                                                               7.7           5.6          16.5         13.4      7.1
Imports(f.0.b.)                                                               18.3           4.5          16.2         24.6      1.o
Real effective exchangerate(+appreciation)                                    18.3         10.6              ...         ...      ...
Central government
Total revenueand grants I /                                                   22.8         26.0           27.0         22.2     11.5
Total revenueexcl. grants                                                     23.7         15.4           33.4         21.3    25.4
Current expenditure                                                           12.6         10.4           33.3         46.9      6.4
Total expenditure                                                             24.6         23.0           30.1         34.6     15.9
Money and credit
Creditto the nonfinancialpublic sector (net)                                  -4.9          -7.0            0.0         0.0      0.0
Creditto privatesector                                                         5.5         10.9           13.2         13.9     15.3
Basemoney                                                                      5.5           7.6            9.6         7.9     10.3
Broad money (incl.foreign currency deposits)                                  10.0           4.8          10.8          8.0     11.3

                                                (percentof GDP, unless otherwisestated)
Central government
Overall balance I /                                                           -0.9          -0.6           -1.o        -2.3     -2.9
Overall balance (excl. grants)                                                -4.4          -5.5           -5.9        -7.4     -6.6
Overall balance (excl. grants and externally-financedprojects)                 0.0          -0.2           -1. I       -2.8     -1.7
Overall balance (excl. &.-financed projects and projectgrants)                 0.6           0.7            0.2        -1.1     -1.7
Central bank net credit to the central government                             -0.2          -0.4            0.0         0.0      0.0
Savings and Investment
Gross investment                                                              28.9         28.3           29.6         26.9    29.3
Gross national savings                                                        28.4         27.2           28.3         23.7    26.3
   Of which: Central government savings                                        1.6           2.3            3.0         1.2      1.3
Externalcurrent account balance(incl. official grants)                        -0.4          -1.1           -1.3        -3.2     -3.0
Externalcurrent account balance(excl. official grants)                        -8.2          -7.6           -7.5        -9.6     -8.0
External publicdebt (end-of-period)                                           29.7         25.6           23.0         22.3    23.4
Total public debt (end-of-period)2/                                           33.5         29.4           26.9         25.5    26.2
External publicdebt service (in percentof
  exports of goods and nonfactorservices) 31                                   7.5           8.9            8.4         8.8      7.8
                                                (millionsof US$, unless otherwise stated)
Overall balanceof payments                                                    79.1        163.4           57.8        -68.7   -127.1
Net international reserves(program)4/                                         92.7        259.1          299.0        244.7    304.7
Liquidgross reserves5/                                                       337.1        544.7          644.1        578.3    648.9
  In months of imports of the following year                                   1.7           2.4            2.7         2.5      2.7
Exchange rate(gourdesper dollar, end-of-period)                               39.1         36.4              ...         ..'      ...
Nominal GDP (millionsof gourdes)                                           200,456     225,560        256,594      264,722   306,972
Nominal GDP (millionsof dollars)                                             4.836        6.031          7,128        7,353    7,382

Sources: Ministryof Economyand Finance;Bank of the Republicof Haiti; and Fund staff estimates
I / From2009 onward, budgetgrants are assumedzero untilfirm donor commitments are forthcoming.
2/ Includesexternal publicsector debt, outstandingCentral Bank bonds, and credit from commercialbanks to the NFPS.
It does not reflect possiblecompletion point debt reductionin 2009.
3/ In line with actual debt service schedule.
4/ Excludingcommercial bank forex deposits, lettersof credit, guarantees, and earmarked projectaccounts
5/ Gross reservesexcludingcapital contributionsto internationalorganizations.




                                                                         19






                                             ANNEX 5: IMF PressRelease
TMF Executive Board Approves Second Review under the PRGF Arrangement with Haiti and Approves
US$12.2 Million Disbursement

Press Release No.OU40 March4,2008


The Executive Board of the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) completedon February29, 2008 the second review
of Haiti's economic program under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement. The
completionofthe rcvicw allows for an immcdiatc disbursementof SDR7.6 niillion (about US%12.2 million).
The Executive Board also approved Haiti's request for a waiver for non-observance of two end-September 2007
performance criteria related to the implementation of lnternational Financial Reporting Standards by the central
bank and the assessnient of possible recapitalization and restructuringneeds of state bank BNC. The authorities
implementedboth performance criteria prior to the ExecutiveBoard's considerationof the review.
Thc PRGF ai-rangenient was approved on November 20, 2006 (sce Press Release No. 06/258) in the amount
equivalent to SDR73.7 niillion (currently about US$I18.Imillion).
Following the ExecutiveBoarddiscussion, Mr.TakatoshiKato, DeputyManagingDirector and Acting Chair, said:
"Haiti has continued to perform remarkably well under its PRGF-supported programdespite ntiinerous challenges:
including tlie dcvastatingeffects of llurricane Nocl late last ycar. During liscal year 2007, growth accelcratcd for
the third year in a row and inflation declined. The authorities are also to be commended for implementing the
program's ambitious structural conditionality, and developing a poverty reduction and growth strategy that
prioritizes needed reforms. with a focus on restoringbasic public goods and services, targeting sectors for growth,
and repairing infrastructure.
"Consistent with the authorities' strategy, the key goals for the second year of tlie PRGF-supportedprogram are to
crcatc conditions for highcr growth and to consolidatethe stabilidion gains achieved so far. One lay element of
the program is to accelerate tlie executionof public cxpendituresneeded to improve the provision of public goods
and serviccs. as wcll as to upgradc infrastructure, while prcserving the quality of spending. The planned
improvements in revenue niobilization should be firmly pursucd to help ensure a sufficient resoitrce flow for
accelerated spending. A strong Cocus on implcmentiug the agreed policy actions will be important to achieve the
IIeavily IndebtedPoorCountriesInitiativecompletionpointassoonaspossible.
"Prudent monetary policy will reniain important. in light of inflationary pressure from high international oil and
food prices. The program's monetary targets will allow some accommodation of first-round et'fects of the
commodity price increases, but the objective is to keep inflation in single digit$. An ambitious plan to recapitalize
the central bank is beingembarked upon, in order to ensure the independenceof monetary policy.
"'The authorities' plans to foster financial sector stability and development will help support higher growth through
increased intermediation. A recent joint [MY-World Bank Financial Sector Assessment found that indicators of
bank soundness are relatively favorable, but suggested several important reforms. including: improving regulation
and supervision; passage of a new banking law; and strengthening of insolvency and creditor rights, audit and
accounting, and the payments system. The authorities have welcomed the assessment and are planning to
implementmost of its reconimendations.
"Despite the many remaining challenges, the prospects for a further acceleration of growth and continued strong
impleniciitation of the PRGF-supporledprogram are favorable. Haiti's resource and capacity constraints and thc
authorities' strong commitmentto rcform warrant continuedtechnicaland linancial assistance ii-omthe international
community," Mr. Kat0 said.




                                                             25

