Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H269-0-HA
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Economic Governance Reform Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 15, 2007 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H269-0-HA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 15, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A. of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
fifteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,600,000) 
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
later than the eighteen months after the Association’s approval of the Financing 
which expire on  July 30, 2008. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
Facsimile: (509) 299 17 32 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond Joseph 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
1. 
In order to promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource 
use through public financial management and procurement reforms, the 
Recipient, in compliance with each and every required procedural step under its 
legal and constitutional framework, has:
 
(a) 
Submitted to its legislative branch, through MEF, and prior to the 
beginning of the fiscal year, the draft budget law for its fiscal year 2007, 
reflecting therein adequate financing to support the key priorities set 
forth in the I-PRSP.
 
(b) 
(i) Carried out, through CSCCA, the audit of 
the Recipient’s treasury 
accounts for its fiscal year 2003; and (ii) submitted the ensuing audit 
report dated December 2006, for consideration by its legislative branch, 
and published it.  
 
(c) 
Issued, through its Prime Minister’s office, circular No. PM/JEA/AA-
 
bdj/0119 dated June 29, 2006, to all government ministries, local 
 
governments, public administration and offices, government agencies 
 
and public entities, mandating therein compliance with the Procurement 
 
Decree, including, in and for each concerned ministry, through the 
 
establishment of a procurement commission.  
 
2. 
In order to improve efficiency and transparency in public infrastructure 
management, the Recipient has:  
 
(a) 
Caused to be completed by firms of international repute, competitively 
 
selected therefor, financial audits in respect of APN, EDH and 
 
TELECO’s 2005 respective fiscal years.  
 
(b) 
Established an adequate mechanism for the monthly monitoring of the 
 
Recipient’s resources allocated to the electricity sector, as evidenced 
 
through the publication on the MEF website of reports presenting at least 
 
three months’ data, reflecting the Recipient’s spending on fuel (for IPPs 
 
and EDH) and to cover  PPAs with IPPs.
 
3. 
In order to promote accountability and transparency in the use of public resources 
for the education sector, the Recipient, through its Ministry of National 
Page  7
6
Education and Professional Training, has submitted for consideration by its 
legislative branch, the draft law which would establish the
 Recipient’s National 
Education Partnership Office, as evidenced by: (a) the Presidential Letter No. 
PN/RP/113/2006, of September 28, 2006; and (b) the Presidential convocation to 
the Parliament, dated September 28, 2006, instructing a parliamentary 
extraordinary session. 
 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the 
Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
With respect to promoting efficiency, transparency and accountability in public 
 
resource use through public financial management and procurement reforms, the 
 Recipient 
shall 
 
have: 
 
(a) 
Executed the budget for its fiscal year 2007 (and subsequent fiscal years 
to conclude no less than six months prior to the Second Tranche Release 
Date), in accordance with its objectives and the allocations of the 
approved budget. 
 
(b) 
Submitted to its legislative branch, through MEF and prior to the 
beginning of the relevant fiscal year, a draft budget law for its fiscal year 
2008 (and subsequent fiscal years up to and including such years which 
would begin before the Second Tranche Release Date), that in the 
opinion of IDA, is in conformity with the Program objectives, reflects 
adequate financing to support key priorities set forth in the I-PRSP (and, 
when completed, the PRSP) and includes a budget annex for FER.  
 
(c) 
(i) Submitted to its legislative branch through MEF, the budget execution 
 law 
(
Loi de Règlement
)
for its fiscal year 2006; and (ii) submitted, 
 
through CSCCA, to its legislative branch, and published, the audit 
 
reports of the Recipient
’s treasury accounts with respect 
to 
its 
fiscal 
 
years 2004 and 2005.  
 
(d) Caused 
to 
be
 
adopted by key sector ministries and public enterprises, 
among which the ministries responsible for education, health, public 
works and justice, EDH and APN, the use of standard bidding documents 
and the CNMP Procedure Manual, as evidenced by an independent 
review of the procedures of these ministries and public enterprises by an 
audit firm of international repute competitively selected. 
 
2. 
With respect to strengthening its public sector’s human resource management 
 
and employees’ accountability, the Recipient shall have: 
 
(a) 
(i) Completed through its Office of Management and Human Resources, 
 
and thereafter maintained, the update of the registry of state employees; 
Page  8
7
and (ii)  defined a system, the applicability and the procedures for new 
 
merit-based appointments and promotions. 
 
(b) 
Adopted, and thereafter widely disseminated, an anti-corruption strategy, 
 
including a definition of institutional arrangements for the 
 
implementation of said  strategy, that in the opinion of IDA, is in 
 
conformity with the Program objectives. 
 
3. 
With respect to improving efficiency and transparency in public infrastructure 
 
management, the Recipient shall have: 
 
(a) 
From January 1, 2007 onwards, competitively procured any further 
 
contractual arrangements for the purchase of power (whether through 
 
new contracts or the  
modification or extension of existing contracts) 
 
for the supply of electricity to Port-au-Prince and the main provincial 
 towns
 of the Recipient’s territory, with   due  regard  for  environmental 
 
recommendations of the Association in the matter. 
 
(b) 
Completed, for a period of at least one year and ending no more than 12 
 
months 
 
before the Second Tranche Release Date, the Auditing 
 
Requirements in respect of public sector road maintenance 
 
activities and operations. 
 
4. 
With respect to fostering greater civil society participation in monitoring of 
 
economic governance reforms, the Recipient shall have regularly published 
 
on the MEF website,  
circulated to the media, and transmitted to its legislative  
 
branch, the summaries of independent quarterly monitoring reports 
 
following their adoption by CC and discussion   with 
MEF 
on 
the 
progress 
 achieved. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
 
Page  9
8
Allocations
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
First Tranche 
 
6,800,000 
 
Second Tranche 
 
8,800,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
15,600,000
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
 
2. 
 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory; and  
 
3.  
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after the notice, the 
Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with respect to 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
E. Audits.
 
1. 
Not later than four months after the First Tranche Release Date or after 
an amount equal to at least seventy five percent (75%) of the First 
Page  10
9
Tranche has been disbursed from the Designated Account (whichever 
occurs earlier), the Recipient shall: (a) have the Deposit Account audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; and (b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after the audit referred to herein 
has been made, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall, when requested by the Association at any time after 
the Second Tranche Release Date: (a) have the Deposit Account audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; and (b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the Association shall have requested the audit 
referred to in (a) above, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, at any time, furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning the Deposit Account and its audits as the 
Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the 
 
Association determines at any   time that an amount of the Financing was used 
 
to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“APN” means 
Autorité Portuaire Nationale
,
the Recipient’s national port 
authority. 
 
2. 
“Auditing Requirements” means the completion, approval by the Board of 
Directors of FER and publication of annual financial audits as required by the 
FER Law (as published on July 24, 2003) and the completion of a Road 
Maintenance and Financial Audit.  
 
3. “CC” 
means 
Comité Consultatif
 the Reci
pient’s Consultative Committee for the 
civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms. 
 
4. “CNMP”
 
means
 
Commission N
ationale des Marchés Publics
,
the Recipient’s 
national procurement commission. 
 
5. 
“CNMP Procedure Manual” means the manual prepared by CNMP for the 
improvement of the Recipient’s public procurement procedures. 
 
6. “CSCCA” 
means 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif
,
the Recipient’s Superior Court of Accounts and Administrative Disputes. 
 
7. “EDH” 
means 
Electricité d’ Haiti, 
the Recipient’s national electricity company. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Page  12
11
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
w
atch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
9. “FER” 
means 
Fonds
 d’Entretien Routier, 
the Recipient’s road maintenance fund. 
 
Page  13
12
10. 
“FER Law” means the Recipient’s legislation creating the FER, as published in 
the official gazette on July 24, 2003. 
 
11. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  
 
12. 
“First Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Association sends the 
Recipient a notice to the effect that the actions set forth in Section I.A. of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been satisfactorily taken. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
14. 
“IPP” means an independent power producer. 
 
15. 
“I-PRSP” means the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, adopted by the 
Recipient in September 2006. 
 
16. 
“MEF” means, depending on the context, the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance or the Minister in charge thereof. 
 
17. “MTPTC” 
means 
Ministère des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
,
the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Works, Transports and Communications. 
 
18. 
“PPA” means a power purchasing agreement. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Decree” means 
Decret Fixant la Reglementation des Marches 
Publics de Services, de Fournitures et de Travaux
,
the Presidential Decree dated 
December 3, 2004, and published in the official gazette on February 14, 2005. 
 
20. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated December 8, 2006 from the Recipient to the 
Association, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
21. 
“PRSP” means Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. 
 
22. 
“Road Maintenance Technical and Financial Audit” means an audit by external 
auditors of the performance of the FER, MTPTC and MEF in implementing the 
Recipient’s road maintenance activities, in accordance with the roles ascribed to 
them and the processes established in the FER Law. 
Page  14
13
23. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Second Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Association sends 
the Recipient a notice to the effect that the actions set forth in Section I.B. of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been satisfactorily taken. 
 
25. “TELECO” 
means 
Telecommunications 
d’Haiti, S.A.M.
,
the Recipient’s public 
telecommunications company. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Page  15
14
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
