Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6749
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT ARAB REPUBLIC
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT)
April 28, 1987
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY O0 ABBREVIATIONS
BM        -     Bank Misr
EPADP     =     Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
GOE       =     Government of Egypt
IBRD      -     International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
MOA       =     Ministry of Agriculture
MOI       =     Ministry of Irrigation
NUBASEED  =     Nubariya Seed Production Corporation
PCR       =     Project Completion Report
PGC       =     Potatoes Growers Cooperative
UPEHC     =     Union of Producers end Exporters of
Horticulture Products



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
(Aice ot Diecto-Ce*wal
OpOfation EvAiaUtilm
April 28, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt Arab Republic Fruits
and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT,
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Egypt Arab Republic Fruits and Vegetables Project (Loan
1276-EGT)" prepared by the Government of the Egypt Arab Republic, with an
overview memorandum prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
#17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autorIzaon.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT ARAB REPUBLIC - FRUITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Bas ic Data Shee t . . . . . ......... . ii
Evaluation Silmmaryo ................................... iv
IBRD OVERVIEW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT PROJECT
COt*LETION REPORT .....6..........................
Conclusions of the PCR ........... .............. .......... ... .    vii
Objectives and Achievements .... ..................... ..... .        vii
Identification/Preparation   ...............................      vii
The Credit Component ............... ...                            x
IBRD Performance .................................... xvi
Government's Performance ...... . * *       444..                    xvii
Lessons  Learned  ..................... . ...................... .   xvii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT PREPARED BY THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT.................................
I.     SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS: .................................... .         6
II.    INTRODUCTION: ............................ ............ ....          13
* Agricultural Sector Before Implementatjion.. ..........o    ,      14
* Project Objectives. .................' ..................          16
* Establishment of a New Seed Production Corporationt.......         16
* Proceeds of The Loan....................................           18
* Administration & R      e p o r t i n g                            19
* Sources of Information on Which PCR is Based.............          19
III.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION & PREPARATION........................          20
*  Origin                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
* Project Aims & Targets                                             23
* Project Area.o ..................6.......... 414*44..44.           23
* Components of the Project.oj....................... ...            24
*Changes Made in the Project Scope..........o..............          28
* Consultants....... ....o .ooo........oo ......o.o.....o.           28
IV.    IMPLEMENTATION: .,*.*o.. .............. 44444444                      29
* Participants in The Project........... ........    ......o         30
* Start Up                                                           30.............o  a...a..a..  30



* Implementation Components   .......           .....      ....       31
Bank Misi........                                               32
Nubassed Co. (N                S       P      C      )          42
UJnion of Producers & Exporters of Horticultural
Crops (UPEHH...   1      lb* * o 0 '        a0.455
Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC) .... ..................       57
El-Wadi & The Nile Export Companies,.,*,.,..........            59
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP)o................... ..... .......... ..     60
Ministry of Irrigation (Relining of the Canal) ........o.        73
Vegetable Breeding & Research Institute, MOA..........o.         77
Seed Certification Department... ..... .o... "..............    80
V.     OPERATING PERFORMANCE: .........ooo...........o................       82
* Actual Withdrawals During Years of Implementation.........o         84
VI.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE:...o ......... ..o .........  o....... ...      86
VII.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE & DEVELOPMENT:...........o...o..            88
* Institutional arrangementsr........ o .....o..... ..... ...         89
* Management & Organizational Effectiveness.6s....o.....              91
VIII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION:E . ....  .. . .... ... o.....................  92
IX.                                                                         NEE ............................. 95
* Attachment 1:
Yields of major vegetable crops on the National level.....          96
* Attachment 2:
Seed potatoes imported by PGC & UPEHC .....................00        99
* Attachment 3:
Financial Status of the Project... ................ o ..... ..      101
* Attachment4:
Institutional Performance. ............ ..0...... ..... .... .0.0....0.0  115
* Attachment 5:
Private Subprojects for Companies & Farms Financed
Through  Bank  Misr   ................................... .      117
* Attachment 6:
Study Tours & Training Courses for NSPC Staff.............          120



* Attachment 7:
Summary of Conclusions of the Final Report of "ULG" .......        123
* Attachment 8:
Organizational Chart for Nubaseed .........................        126
* Attachement 9:
Letters of Agreement Between "IDA" & the Government .......        128
* Attachment 10:
Maps .M.P.I.B.R.D......  1..332
MAP IBRD 12043R



-i-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGY:T ARAB REPUBLIC - FRUITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Fruits and
Vegetables Project in Egypt, for which Loan 1276-EGT in the amount of US$50.0
million was approved on May 28, 1976. The Loan was closed on December 31,
1984, two years behind schedule; an unused balance of US$1.4 million was
cancelled. The date of final disbursement was January 13, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower with the help of an Egyptian
consultant. While the PCR is comprehensive and detailed, it does not fully
reflect the developments which have led to the final project design, or
elaborate on IBRD's or Government's role during preparation and
implementation, nor does it include a financial or economic analysis.
An IBRD Overview of the PCR was prepared by the Europe, Middle East
and North Africa Regional Office to discuss various matters not fully covered
in the PCR, to record IBRD's own observations on project preparation,
implementation and its impact, to compare actual developments with appraisal
estimates, and to highlight the principal achievements, issues and lessons
learned. The Overview also provides an assessment of the project's technical
and economic performance. The Overview is based in part on a review of the
Staff Apraisal Report (No.1181-EGT) dated May 12, 1976, the President's Report
(No. P-1840-EGT) dated May 14, 1976, the Loan Agreement of June 11, 1976,
correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda on project issues as
contained in relevant Bank files, as well as interviews with officials both in
the Bank and in Egypt who have been associated with the project.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on January 13,
1987 for comments. No comments have been received.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



-1t-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT ARAB REPUBLIC - FRUITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT)
BASIC DATA SHET£
KEY PROJECT 4gTA
Actual or   Actual as
Appraisal   Estimated   % of Appraisal
Eitlmate    Actual       Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                108.0       103.1            95
Loan Amount (USS million)                        50.0        50.0           100
Disbursed (US$ million)                       50.0        48.6           97
Cancelled (US$ million)                        -           1.4             _
Date Board Approval                                       05/28/76
Loan Agreement Date                                       06/11/76
Date Effectiveness                           08/30/76    12/20/76           233/A
Date Physical Components Completed           06/82        06/86             166/A
Proportion Then Completed ()                 100.         SO             50
Closing Date                                 12/31/82    12/31/84           130/A
Economic Rate of Return (%)                      33'         12/h            36
Financial Rate of Return (X)                     -             /I
Institutional Performance                        -       Modest
Technical Performancta                           -       Modest
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                   -        0.5 million         -
STAFF INPUTId
FEt   FY75  FY76  £122  £121  FY79  FY80  7111  fY82  FY83  FY84  £1 fY85   FY     DAL
Id./Prep. 4.6  166.5  13.5   -      -      -     -     -      -     -      -     .    -   184.6
Appraisal  -      -   103.4   -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -   103.4
Negotiat's -      -    10.3   -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -    10.3
Supervison -      -     2.9  2i.6   26.4   46319.6  .1 JZJZ  19.2 29,1  t.9 _B,S  25LJ          8
TOTAL  4.6  166.5 130.1  26.6  26.4  46.3  19.6  33.1  37.2  19.2  24.1  11.9  8.5  554.1
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)  5.4  16.6  29.3  41.0  47.9  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0
Actual (US$ million)                0.0   1.0   3.5  12.7  17.6  34.7  36.9  37.3  41.0  48.6
Actual as % of Estimate             0.0   6.0  11.9  31.0  36.8  54.6  72.0  74.4  82.0  97.2
Date of Final Disbursment         January 13, 1986
/A Calculated in terms of months from date of Board approval.
/k ERR estimate is weighted average of estimates for credit component (less
than 10%), and investments in West Nubariya Drain (17%) and in Nubariya Seed
farm (Negative).
/£ Credit Component (Unsatisfactory). Nubariya Seed Farm (Unsatisfactory).
/4 Input as staff weeks. Source: World Bank Planning and Budgeting Department.



-1i1-
HISSIla DATA
No. of             Man/Days
Month    Days in  No. of       in       Special-      Performance
noD              Yar      EtJed    Persons  F1eld Ei]Aton/a  aatnu/
Appraisal           ?0/75       23        6       138       Ec.As,Cr,E(3)      -
Supervision I       08/76       10        2        20       Ec,E                2/1
Supervision XI      03/77       12        3        36       Ec,As,E              1/2
Supervision III    05/77        08        1        08       Ec                   2/2
Supervision IV      08/77       06        1        06       A                    2/2
Supervision V       10/77       08        I        08       As                   2/2
Supervision VI      10/77       07        1        07       E                    2/2
Supervision VII    12/77        03        1        03       E                    3/2
Supervision VIII   04/78        29        2        58       As,Cr                2/2
Supervision IX      07/78       13        2        26       As,Ec                2/2
Supervision X       11/78       04        1        04       As                   2/2
Supervision XI      03/79       17        5        as       As,A,E(2),Ec         3/2
Supervision XII    10/79        21        1   ,  21                              3/2
Supervision XIII   02/80        13        2        26       As,E                 3/1
Supervision XIV    05/80        12        3        37       E,Cr,A               3/2
Supervision XV      10/80       01        1        01       As                   3/2
Supervision XVI    01/81        12        2        24       As,E                 3/1
Supervision XVII   06/8J        10        2        20       Es,E                 3/1
Supervision XIX    '1/81        05        1        05       E                    3/2
Supervision XX      05/82       13        3        36       Ec,A,Fa              3/2
Supervision XXI    12/82        20        3        60       As,Cr,E              3/1
Supervision XXII   04/83        20        3        60       As,Cr,E              3/1
Supervision XXIII  10/83        20        4        80       As,Cr,E,A            3/2
Supervision XXIV   06/84        06        2        12       As,E                 3/2
Supervision XXV    11/84        06        2        12       A.E                  3/2
TOTAL:    212
O1HER PROJECT DATA
Barrowerl                        Egypt Arab Republic
Executina Aaenceas*              Banque Misr, Nubariya Seed Production Corporation
Ministry of Irrigation
Fiscal Year of the Borrgwer:   January 1 - Deceeber 31
Namr gf Currency (Abbreviation)Egyptian Pound (LE)
Currencv Exchanae Rate:
Appraisal Year (1976) Average        US$1.00 = LE 0.59
Intervening Years Average            US$1.00 = LE 0.84
Completion Year (1985) Average       US$1.00 = LE 1.33
/f A = Agronomist; E = Engineer; As = Agroindustry Specialist; Cr Credit
Specialist; Fa = Financial Analysts; Ec = Economist.
/f First rating figure refers to status (1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2
= Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems); second figure refers to trend (l =
Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating).



-iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT ARAB REPUBLIC - FRUITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT)
EVAlUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This was the first IBRD supported project of its kind in Egypt. It
was initiated just after the country had come out of two wars, and the Bank
was eager to assist the Egyptian economy by introducing better management,
generating foreign exchange and the development of import substitution
activities.
Obiectives
The project provided funds for: (i) development of a 23,000 fd seed
farm to be operated by Nubariya Seed Production Company (Nubaseed); (ii)
improved seed certification arrangements; (iii) various agroindustry
investments related to horticulture by means of a line of credit administered
by Bank Misr (BM); (iv) construction of a 67 km drainage canal (West Nubariya
Drain); and (v) relining of a portion of the Nasr irrigation canal. A modest
training program for BN staff, and technical assistance for infrastructure
design, and for design and management of Nubaseed were also included.
hmplementation Experience
Implementation of the project which was origin'ally scheduled over a
six year period, was in fact accomplished in about nine years due to long
delays in design preparation and construction of infrastructure works, and
weak project management. During implementation some changes in project scope
and design were made. The credit program of BM was expanded, while
Nubaseed's actual operations changed from tomato and potato production to a
variety of other crops, and investment was reduced accordingly.
Total costs of the project in US dollar terms, and calculated on the
basis of the 1985 exchange rate, were about 12% below appraisal estimates;
cost increases in the infrastructure component (+12X) were compensated by a
reduction in the costs of the credit (-7%) and the vegetable seed components
(-532). Total foreign costs remained virtually the same; local costs
increased by 14% in terms of Egyptian Pounds (EL), but were 12% lower in
terms of US dollars due to the sharp devaluation of the Egyptian currency.
The increase in local costs was fully met by the Government; as a result the
GoveLtment's conitribution to the project, in terms of Egyptian Pounds, almost
doubled from 27% envisaged at appraisal to about 527.  In terms of US
dollars, however, the Government's contribution remained almost the same
(para. 25).



IBRD's performance during preparation, appraisal and implementation
has been mixed. When the project was initiated in 1972, IBRD was eager to
renew the contract with Egypt, while focussing on introduction of better
economic management at the micro level, generating foreign exchange and
developing import substitution activities. But IBRD staff had relatively
limited knowledge of Egypt's agricultural sector, while the Egyptian economy
was basically state-run and centrally planned. As a result, during
preparation and appraisal, judgments were made concerning the location, size
and institutional arrangements for the seed faTm, and the selection of
investments to be financed under the project, *hich assumed levels of
management and technical competence unlikely to materialize. In addition,
design of the infrastructure component was not sufficiently advanced to
warrant inclusion of this component in the project. IBRD allocated very
substantial staff resources to the supervision of the project.
Implementation of the credit component and design of the infrastructure
components did benefit from frequent supervision missions. Howevcr, the
effectiveness of supervision was limited when addressing the technical and
institutional problems of the seed farm, the quality of investments appraised
by Bank Misr and in improving construction progress of the infrastructure
component (para. 25). Project management was generally weak (para. 24).
Results
The economic impact of the project has been mixed. The line of
credit for agroindustry projects appears to have created a loan portfolio of
subij.ojects of which a majority nas repayment problems, with an overall
economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at less than 102, well below the 35%
estimated at appraisal (para. 10). The investment in infrastructure might
demonstrate a modest ERR (172) (para. 6), while the seed farm of Nubaseed is
likely to show a negative ERR, compared to 28% estimated at appraisal (para.
13).
Substainability
Continued operation of the Nubariya farm without preparation of a
well conceived and effectively implemented business plan appears ill advised,
and would further increase Nubaseed's already substantial losses. Banque
Misr's project lending portfolio is weak; however, experience gained by the
bank's staff in executing the project has allowed the bank to substantially
increase its agro-industry operations in general.
Findings and Lessons
(i) project design should have taken greater reco;,nition of (a) the
substantial risk thLt rapid expansion of fruit and vegetable
exports might not materialize, and (b) the risks involved in
the need for the seed farm to rely on high caliber management
and technical expertise (para. 5);
(ii) in view of outstanding design issues, detailed design of the
civil works should have been further advanced for the works to
be included in the project (para. 6);



-vi-
(iii) had the implementation problems of the seed farm been
discovered sooner, corrective action would not have been as
difficult (para. 23);
(iv)   a critical review of the results of state enterprises should
have been made prior to embarking on a large state seed farm
(para. 13);
(v)    Bank Misr's staff training and technical assistance
requirements should have been more carefully assessed (para.
9);
(vi'   the capabilities of consultants recruited by Nubaseed should
have been more carefully scrutinized (para. 14);
(vii)  IBRD supervision, though intensive, had not devoted adequate
attention to project management performance, as should have
been (para. 23);
(viii) arrangements whereby design consultants were engaged by
Nubaseed, but had to work with other implementing agencies to
design the Nubariya drain and Nasr canal reduced the
consultant's effectiveness (para. 19); and
(ix)   heavy machinery operation and maintenance staff training
requirements of Nubaseed were underestimated (para. 16).



-vii-
EGYPT ARAB REPUBLJC
FP.UITS AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
(LOAN 1276-EGT)
IBRD Overview of the Government of Egypt
Project Completion Report
Conclusions of the PCR
1.      The PCR prepared by MOA fairly records the project's achievements and
the many problems experienced during project implementation. It notes that
the project largely completed the major infrastructure components, developed
a seed farm and a major settlement In West Nubariya, and financed a number of
agroindustry investments through BM. The PCR reflects on the factors which
contributed to the delays in the completion of the major infrastructure
works. It also notes the major difficulties faced by Nubaseed, its limited
seed production, high costs, low income from seed production, and its
inability to compete with imported seed. The PCR, however, fails to
elaborate sufficiently on the causes of the project's problems, or to comment
on the validity of the assumptions made during appraisal and supervision
concerning the project objectives and the role of the project in the sector,
and whether the project concept was sound. It also does not address the
financial aspects of the project.
Objectives and Achievements
Identification/Preparation
2.      Actions and decisions taken during the early stages of the project
cycle are at the root of the most important of the project's implementation
problems. But they should be reviewed in the context of the historical
framework prevailing in the mid-70's. Egypt had just come out of two very
destructive wars; IBRD's involvement in the Egyptian economy at that time was
limited to six projects, and it was eager to assist the economy by
introducing better management, generating foreign exchange and development of
import substitution activities. These activities appeared feasible in the
wake of the oil boom and the buoyancy of the Middle Eastern economies, which
became natural outlets for Egyptian labor and products. It was within this
context that the project was initiated in 1972, when an IBRD agriculture
sector mission, upon arrival in Egypt, was asked by the Egyptian authorities
to focus on integrated rural development and agroindustries. The mission
identified a number of investment opportunities, based on optimistic
assumptions concerning Egypt's export potential for fruits and vegetables
(oranges and selected vegetables). The mission also made an assessment of
the likely demand for, and supply of these products in the targetted markets
(West- and Eastern-Europe, Middle East), but had limited opportunities to
analyze the sectoral and institutional implications of such an export drive.



-viii-
When the project was prepared in 1974, on the basis of a more elaborate
identification report prepared by the Egyptian Authorities, the FAO/IBRD/CP
preparation mission determined that market developments for fresh fruits and
vegetables in Western Europe were not very promising, and that Egypt would
have to compete with an increasing number of exporting countries, both in
quality and in price. Hence the mission suggested that the project focus on
supplying the local market in addition to limited exports. Meanwhile it also
became clear that the area selected for development of local production of
seeds (3000 fd) and tomatoes (16000 fd) was not yet settled, infertile, and
would require long periods of treatment to develop into suitable soil. In
addition, the area appeared to have a drainage problem and would need a
separate drain to avoid mixing drain water of high salinity with irrigation
water. While taking account of the opportunities for exports to the Middle
East, and Egypt's comparative advantage in producing fruits and vegetables,
it was decided during IBRD's review of the preparation report to focus
further preparation on (i) fresh vegetable exports, (ii) citrus packing,
(iii) potato cold stores, and (iv) tomato production for processing as well
as for seeds.  In addition, the project would focus on vegetable seed
production and other horticulture processing. It was also decided that
during project implementation a detailed design for the West Nubariya main
drain would be prepared before commencing construction of the drain.
Suggestions to delay appraisal of the project until detailed design of the
67 km drain had been completed were made but were not accepted in order to
maintain the project processing schedule of this sizeable loan as planned.
It was furthermore suggested that during follow-up preparation the
possibility of expanding the scope and size of the project be examined.
3.      The next FAO/IBRD/CP preparation mission complied, and suggested a
seed farm of 24000 fd (Nubaseed) in the Nubariya area to produce vegetable
seed and seed potatoes. The mission was informed that the West Nubariya
drain had already been partly designed and construction would start in 1976.
But in its covering memo to IBRD the mission warned that each of the proposed
project components presented substantial problems, notably the difficulties
of producing disease-free potatoes, the high risks of delay in completion of
the Nubariya Drain and appropriate drainage works at the Nubariya farm to
reduce salinity of irrigation water and water logging, the negative rate of
return of vegetable seed production (as a result of low official seed
prices), and the questionable validity of forecasts of the growth of citrus
exports. To address these issues a pre-appraisal mission was mounted,
followed by the appraisal mission.
4.      After appraisal, a number of questions were raised concerning the
institutional arrangements for the project, (which were accepted), water use
practices, completion of a feasibility study for the Nubariya main drain (a
condition of negotiations), and the project rationale. Concern was also
expressed about the need for the sizable infrastructure component in its
proposed form, the pr!ority of the project vis-a-vis other projects in the
rural sector, the suitability of Bank Misr (BM) as credit intermediary, and
the potential for fruit and vegetable exports. These concerns were to be
addressed in the appraisal report. Questions were also raised at a later
stage concerning the rationale for the size of the seed farm and the wisdom
of creating a new corporation for seed production.



-ix-
5.      In retrospect, the 1972 IBRD sector mission's initial contention,
that Egypt could possibly substantially expand fruit and vegetable exports
during the off-season, depended upon Egypt's ability to develop an
aggressive, quality conscious and effective export trade. Such development
would require more effective export oriented sector policies, and a quality
of management not likely to emerge in most state owned corporations. When
this became clear, efforts to reformulate the project were somewhat
inetfective. Contributing factors included IBRD's limited experience in the
subsector in Egypt, IBRD's interest in quickly processing the project and the
focus of the Egyptian economy on State involvement. With uncertain local
production and export growth of fruits and vegetables, a decision could have
been made to scale down the project, or to focus on different components.
Instead, it was decided to maintain the project's focus on horticulture
crops, and, if possible, to increase the size of the project. With the
Government having decided to locate the project on the new lands, a number of
quick assessments were made on how to support vegetable production in this
area; subsequently this was changed to seed production. However, the
implications of this decision, notably concerning soil suitability,
production techniques, costs and the price environment and particularly the
demands for sophisticated management of the complex were analyzed without
taking sufficient account of the country's record in these matters. The
decision to select the new lands at Nubariya for the project forced the
preparation mission to include large infrastructure components in the
project, for which t!;e rationale and the design were not yet well analyzed.
There again, too optimistic assumptions were made concerning the capabilities
of the implementing agencies. It also implied that the seed farm would need
to include a major settlement program. Lack of experience withl Egypt's
institutional practices and its generally weak management capabilities led
IBRD staff again to make generous assessments of implementation capacity.
Finally, Government's proposal to operate a large state farm was not
critically reviewed or alternatives examined.
6.      Should IBRD have included the construction of the Nubariya main drain
and rehabilitation of the Nasr canal in the project? Assuming previous
investments in the about 300,000 fed new lands area to be serviced by the
drain were sunk costs, the investment is likely to have had a positive rate
of return. It is further assumed that without the drain, production of the
area would be increasingly constrairned by the high salinity of the soil and
possibly by waterlogging. Improving the quality of irrigation water does
increase the productive capacity of the land concerned, although less than
assumed during appraisal. During appraisal it was assumed that yields on
280,000 fed already activated areas in West Nubariya would increase 60%
compared to the without project situation. Although, the impact of the drain
and rehabilitation of the Nasr canal has yet to be demonstrated, it is
assumed in this Overview that production on 180,000 fed would increase by 25Z
over the without project situation, and that rehabilitation cf the Nasr canal
would facilitate another 50,000 fd already developed to be irrigated and -
produce crops, be it with modest yields and at relatively high costs. On the
basis of these assumptions and production and costs levels of recently
appraised projects in the area the rate of return is about 17X, compared to
l9Z estimated at appraisal (para. 22). However, from a project point of view



it i6 certain that a smaller seed component in a different area, which would
not have required additional investment in irrigation infrastructure could
have achieved the present level of seed production by Nubaseed at a fraction
of the investment costs. Regardless of the economics of investmnant in
canals, it is clear that these components were at such an early stage of
design and that so many technical issues required a solution that these
should not have been included in the project. Detailed design of the West
Nubariya main drain took four years, and construction of the rehabilitation
of the Nasr canal only started in 1985, nine years after appraisal, after an
arduous design process.
The Credit Component
7.      This component comprised two separate credit operations through BM.
Funds were to be provided for specific investments identified by IBRD:
(i) seed potato cold stores for the Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC),
(ii) citrus packing and marketing facilities for the El Wadi Company,
and
(iii) fresh vegetable packing and marketing facilities for the Union of
Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Products (UPEHC) and the
Nile company.
BM was also to lend funds to Nubaseed for all its on farm investments
(para. 20). In addition, BM received a general line of credit for
unidentified agroindustry investments, limited to fruit and vegetable
processing, packaging and handling facilities.
8.      As detailed in the PCR, para. 3.03.04, and the following paras, of
all preidentified investments only two cold stores of PCG and a small cold
store and some trucks for UPEHC were actually financed by BM. The Nile and
El-Wadi companies did not receive any finance, be it for different reasons.
The El-Wadi Company experienced increasing demand for citrus in Egypt, while
exports under agreements with Eastern European countries dropped. The Nile
Company showed limited interest in a loan at 10% while it could obtain loans
at 6% from other banks. In 1979, IBRD urged BM to take into ccount the
institutional and financial capabilities of the companies concerned in the
evaluation of loan requests. In the records of BM's dealingE with the
companies preidentified by IBRD, weak management and mediocre institutional
performance have been noted. The investments made by PGC and UPEHC took
place after very substantial delays in preparation of procurement documents
and clearances. PCG investments have been profitable, those oi UPEHC have
consistently lost money, except in 1982. Because of the high interest rate
of 10X, UPEHC repaid its entire loan with BM in two years. The limited
success of this portion of the line of credit appears to have been caused by
inadequate preparation and the long period between identification of the
individual sub-projects (1974/75) and their implementation (1978/80). In
retrospect, the incidence of rapid change in agroindustry business should
have been recognized during preparation of this component. BM's limited
experience in agroindustry lending (para. 9) could have been addressed by
providing for more appropriate staff training and technical assistance in the
project.



-xi-
9.      During project identification, the Bank of Alexandria was suggested
as financial intermediary.  It had substantial experience in ag:oindustry and
trade financing, and was familiar with IBRD procurement, disbursement and
appraisal procedures because of its previous involvement in an lBRD project.
However, it had a limited number of branches. The Government expressed a
strong interest to increase the number of Egyptian banks being involved in
IBRD loan-, and since Bank of Alexandria had already been involved in earlier
projects, proposed BM as financial intermediary, although it had no previous
experience in lending for agroindustry investments. BM was the largest bank
in Egypt, and one of the most sophisticated, with an extended network of
rural and urban branches. Whiile the Government's suggestion was accepted,
BM's need for substantial technical assistance to initiate an agroindustry
lending program, and its limited experience with development banking and IBRD
procedures, particularly concerning procurement, was insufficiently
appreciated. Only about 12 man-months of technical assistance was provided
in the project for this purpose.   In 1977, BM reorganized its operations and
established a special Investment Department. However, the unit was slow in
developing an agroindustry lending program, and initial problems with
procurement required intensive inputs from IBRD staff and resulted in
substantial delays. The consultant selected by BM did assist in reorganizing
EM's investment department and in developing a lending portfolio. However, a
more elaborate training program of BM staff might have reduced the initial
delays in subproject processing, caused by BM being unfamiliar with IBRD
procedures. In addition, such training might have enhanced the quality of
loan appraisals and the initially slow progress of identifying sub-projects
by BM staff.
10.     Under the line of credit, BM succeeded in financing 1S major
sub-projects, of which eight were for broiler and eggs production, two farms,
one for a packing materials factory, one for storage, two for packing of
horticulture crops, and one for a bakery. Both private and state owned
companies received loans. Although BM loan appraisals indicated estimated
financial rates of return of an average of about 25S, loan recovery has not
been good. Only 30% of BM's loan portfolio of US$ 29M financed under the
project was current as of June 1, 1986; 64% of the portfolio experiences
major delays (of over two years) of payments of annual installments
(principal and interest). Requests for rescheduling of loans have been made
by 39% of the subborrowers, affecting 572 of the portfolio. Two subborrowers
bankrupted. Although loan repayment performance is only an indirect measure
of the viability of the subprojects concerned, it is the best indicator
currently available that the average economic rate of return of these
sulprojects, estimated at less than 10%, is well below appraisal estimates
(35%).
Nubaseed
11.     The chances of Nubaseed succeeding as a viable commercially oriented
state venture, as envisaged during appraisal, were limited from the start
because of the following environmental, institutional, and financial factors,
but most importantly because the requirements for sophisticated management of
the farm would likely exceed those available to a state owned corporation.
(a)      The environmental factors included: (i) the sandy desert
soils, which require up to 10 years of careful treatment



-xii-
before being capable of producing high crop yields; (ii) the
lack of drainage and risks of rapidly increasing salinity in
groundwater and of water logging; (iii) the high incidence of
viruses and nematodes in the soil; and (iv) the high incidence
of sandstorms in the area.
(b)      The institutional factors included: (i) the lack of linkages
of Nubaseed with suppliers of certified seed to be multiplied
by Nuhaseed; (ii) the drawbacks of all state entities in Egypt
in attracting and retaining high quality staff and management;
(iii) the limited knowledge available in Egypt concerning the
technical and managerial aspects of a large seed operation;
and (iv) the need to develop a complete settlement complex to
house Nubaseed staff.
(c)      The financial and economic factors included: (i) the aeed for
Nubaseed to finance not only the seed farm, btvt also the
expensive settlement complex; (ii) the generally low prices of
seed, which were Government controlled; and (iii) the
uncertain market for certain types of domestically produced
seeds.
12.     Some of the above constraints have been admirably overcome during
project implementation. Soil fertility has increased, be it slowly.
Drainage has been improved, although part of the drainage system has been
rendered inoperative due to lack of maintenance. A settlement has been
established. But most of the above-noted factors have effectively reduced
the intended productive capacity of the farm. It was not until April 1978
that IBRD missions reported on problems of Nubaseed, may be in part because
of the skill composition of the mission (para. 23); since then, matters grew
worse, despite efforts made by the Egyptian authorities supported by very
frequent IBRD supervision missions. At present, Nubaseed has a very weak
financial base, a deteriorating machine park, and about 10,000 fed in
production. This is far less than anticipated but not altogeLher surprising,
given the technical and management constraints. The appraisal estimates
appear to have been overly optimistic and uirealistic.
13.     The average 1981-1983 production level of the farm in terms of volume
of seed (other than potatoes) was 15 of appraisal estimates; actual seed
potato production was nil compared to an appraisal estimate of 19000 MT. The
estimated economic rate of return of Nubaseed is negative, assuming the
benefits of the land leased out by Nubaseed (see below) would have occurred
without the project. Even if they were included, the rate of return would
not substantially change. The financial performance of Nubaseed has also
been disappointing. Dtiring appraisal it was assumed that Nubaseed would be a
venture operating on commercial principles, and that accordingly it would be
able to borrow for all its financial needs, including the establishment of
the settlement complex. Investments for the settlement and the farm were
financed, in part, from the Government's equity participation in the farm,
but mainly financed with funds borrowed from BM, which became increasingly
concerned about Nubaseed's financial performance. Nubaseed tried to have the
Government assume responsibility for all investment costs not directly linked



-xiii-
to seed production, so far with limited success. Because Nubaseed's cash
flow did not allow it to repay BM, Nubaseed virtually stopped repayments
pending the outcome of its requests for additional equity from the
Government. As a result BM declined to provide additional financing for a
tomato processing plant (to enhance revenue from tomato seed production) and
a potato cold store (needed to store potato seed during the summer), thereby
further limiting Nubaseed's potential tomato and potato productioa. To
improve its cash flow, Nubaseed leased out large areas to private farmers; in
FY84/85 income from renting out land was LE 1.2 million, or 23% of gross
income of LE 5.4 million. Proceeds of seeds only provided about 58% of its
gross revenue, while livestock contributed l9b. Despite these additional
sources of income, Nubaseed's financial position has deteriorated steadily
since production started; accumulated losses of the farm amounted to LE 8.7
million by mid-1985, of which LE 2.4 million for FY 1984/85 alone. 'n
retrospect, it would have been prudent for the Government to assume full
financial responsibility for construction of the settlement infrastructure,
possibly by taking a more substantial equity participation in Nubaseed, in
view of the risks the farm would face, and the pilot nature of its
operations. In general, this component would have benefitted from a phased
implementation of a smaller farm, in a different area, with a different
ownership and management structure, with major investments in machinery and
processing and storage facilities to be made only after production of seed
proved adequate. Such approach might have reduced the risks of the farm, and
would have been prudent on technical, financial, and institutional grounds.
During appraisal a joint venture or management contract with an experienced
international firm was discussed, unfortunately the appraisal mission did not
include firm arrangements in its recommendations. However, the
ineffectiveness of pa,st efforts to conceive a viable seed farm should not
prevent current action to find a sound solution for the problems of the
farm. Nubaseed's weak financial performance, its inability to achieve its
original objectives, and the changes in attitude of the Government towards
large Government seed farms (para. 23) all underscore the urgent need for a
thorough review of the farm's future role. Such review should examine the
validity of the farm's objectives, and include a realistic assessment of its
future production, income and costs, which would enable Nubaseed to perform
in a financially responsible fashion, given future demand for Nubaseed
products. The analysis should also include a plan to deal with Nubaseed's
debt problems, and arrangements to enhance its future management
performance. Continuation of Nubaseed's operations without a well conceived
and effectively implemented business plan appears ill advised, as it would
further increase the risk of substantial future losses.
14.     Among other factors, the design process of the Nubaseed component
contributed to its lack of success. While selecting the consultant for
Nubaseed, insufficient attention was paid to the experience of the proposed
consultancy staff in creating and managing a large seed farm under desert
coniitions. Some of the personnel selected had adequate experience, but the
background and level of expertise of others appeared too lmited. In
addition, the consultants were slow in developing effective working relations
with Egyptian management of the farm. In retrospect, IBRD should have
insisted on clear proof of the consultant staff being experienced in seed
production.



-xiv-
15.     Management of the farm was excessively centralized, with the Chairman
of Nubaseed making all decisions without adequately delegating
responsibilities. This maragement style reduced the effectiveness of the
advice provided by the consultants, and was not very suitable in a situation
where suggestions from lower level staff might have been highly effective in
reducing the problems of farm construction and operation.
16.     Nubaseed acquired a large number of machines early during project
implementation, including laser-equipped land levelling equipment intended to
reduce the inefficient water use of the farm. Such purchases of equipment
contributed substantially to Nubaseed's financial problems (para. 13), and
created a major operations and maintenance problem. Although the Nubaseed's
consultants admirably tried, though belatedly, to train machine shop
personnel and equipment operators, it took a long time to create an
experienced workforce; in the meantime lack of maintenance reduced the
efficiency of the machinery. Failure to identify the need for appropriate
training programs during appraisal and the lack of Nubaseed's commitment to
provide adequate priority to training needs during the early stages of
project implementation contributed to this problem. One of the experiments
carried out by the consultants of Nubaseed involved growing vegetables under
plastic. The experiment was highly successful and has greatly contributed to
the country's rapid expansion of the use of plastic foil in growing
vegetables.
17.     The volume of total production of fruits and vegetables in Egypt
increased by about 20% between 1975 and 1984, or less than 2% annually. For
some vegetables production growth during this 10 year period has been more
substantial; potato production increased 552, that of tomato 32%, and
cucumber 42%. Other crops showed very little production growth or production
actually declined during this period, notably for onions (-41%), watermelon
(-11) and oranges (+2%). Exports of fruits and vegetables from Egypt have
increased in value terms between 1974 and 1982 by about 65%, but in volume
terms the export grew much less. While exports to the EEC and Eastern Europe
declined, those to the Middle East increased. Imports of seed potatoes into
Egypt increased substantially, between 1974 and 1985 they almost doubled. On
the basis of actual production, the following conclusions can be drawn: the
concern expressed during preparation of the project about Egypt's ability to
export fruits and vegetables to Western and Eastern Europe was justified; the
relatively slow growth of national production indicates that assistance to
enhance local production was necessary. However, the growth pattern of
individual crops indicates that the project should have been selective,
focussing on crops with substantial potential. It is ironic in this respect
that Nubaseed was unable to produce seed potatoes, one of the crops with an
apparent substantial potential. In general, the project's focus on indirect
measures to stimulate growth of lccal production by supporting seed
production and agroindustries, appears to have been ineffective, with the
exception of the experiments of growing vegetables under plastic. And it is
again ironic that these experiments apparently were not planned during
appraisal of the project.
Infrastructure
18.     The design and construction of the West Nubariya drain, the
rehabilitation of the Nasr canal, and the drainage works on the Nubariya seed
farm were all characterized by prolonged delays in design and procurement;



-xv-
construction was also slow, notably of the drainage components. It is clear
that prior to and during appraisal proper understanding was not reached on
the selection and responsibilities of the executing agencies. As a result,
extensive explanations were needed after negotiations to clarify who would be
responsible for design and financing of repairs to the canal. More serious
was the lack of attention to design issues; for example, the issue whether
Nubariya drain should include a tunnel or diversion around a hilly area, and
whether repair of the Nasr canal should be by means of a parallel canal or
other means, and which sections of the canal should receive priority. It was
assumed that these issues would be solved during implementation. Development
of alternative designs and follow-up discussions actually took years and the
case of the Nasr canal involved conflicting views of consultants and the
Government. Repair of the Nasr canal was technically difficult and
complicated from an organizational point of view. The tender for Nubariya
drain was issued in 1980, and that for Nasr Canal rehabilitation was issued
for the first time in 1980. The latter tender resulted in two bids at a
price about ten times the cost of new construction. Following extensive
review, and another failed local tender in 1981, the design was changed; the
final tender, issued in 1984, was successful and construction was expected to
be completed in May 1986. Implementation of the infrastructure ^omponent
clearly demonstrated its susceptibility to delay, precipitated by the undue
haste in appraising this component of the project.
19.     The delays were, in part, the result of vague and cumbersome
institutional arrangements, whereby consultants hired by Nubaseed were to
assist in the design of all infrastructure components, and also to coordinate
with the agencies responsible for implementation. According to the appraisal
report a project unit in the General Directorate for Agricultural Expansion
in the West Nubariya area under the Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) was to be
responsible for design and construction of the main drain and for drainage
works on the seed farm. The appraisal report did not, however, indicate
which agency would be responsible for rehabilitation of the Nasr Canal.
Contrary to the appraisal recommendation, a project unit was established in
the Egyptian Public Authorities for Drainage Projects (EPADP). With design
consultants hired by Nubaseed, coordination with EPADP proved difficult;
also, EPADP's project unit was understaffed, and initially suffered from a
high turnover of staff. It was only in 1979 that agreement was reached with
EPADP about its responsibility concerning design and construction of field
drainage on the seed farm. Concerning the Nasr Canal, coordination between
the consultants and MOI (which is responsible for irrigaiion canals) also
proved difficult. Disagreements persisted between both parties concerning
design details. After failure of the first tender for the canal
rehabilitation contract a new consultant was hired by MOI to work out details
of an alternative solution (building of a new canal next to the old one),
which eventually was tendered and constructed. Although the institutional
arrangements limited the effectiveness of the design consultants, their
performance appears fully satisfactory.
20.     Frequent supervision assisted in clarifying responsibility of project
implementing agencies, and in specifying the process to solve the technical
issues. However, IBRD supervision missions were less successful in speeding
up construction, particularly farm drainage construction.



-xvi-
21.     About US$7 million in loar. savings were used to finance EPADP's
acquisition of heavy equipment for drainage construction and maintenance.
The equipment was tendered in late 1984 and delivered in 1985. The equipment
was urgently required to satisfy the rapid demand for maintenance of
irrigation and drainage channels; IBRD financing was made available after
EPADP prepared a nationwide channel maintenance program. The benefits
created by this equipment have not been quantified; however, they appear
substantial and should be attributed to the project.
22.     The economic rate of return of the Nubariya main drain and
rehabilitation (and capacity expansion) of the Nasr canal would be positive
if it is assumed that:
(i)      lack of separate drainage would continue to increase the
salinity of irrigation water;
(ii)      that such irrigation water would be used on a substantial
portion of the West Nubariya area; and
(iii)      capacity expansion of the Nasr canal would facilitate
irrigation of an area not otherwise provided with water.
It should also be further assumed that without drain, production of
the area would be increasingly constrained by the high salinity of the soil
and possibly by waterlogging.   On the basis of the assumptions made in para.
6, and production and costs levels of recently appraised projects in the
area, the rate of return is about 17%, compared to 19% estimated at appraisal.
IBRD Performance
23.     IBRD assigned very considerable resources to supervision of the
project; 24 missions with a total of 655 man-days, or about three times the
normal average. The project comprised of three largely unrelated components,
each demanding different technical skills for supervision. Supervision
missions either looked at one component, particularly during the early stages
of the project, or required extensive staffing to cover all aspects. These
frequent supervision missions initially paid most attention to the problems
of the credit component. The credit program was successfully adjusted to
widen its scope, but efforts to maintain a satisfactory quality of BM's
agroindustry lending portfolio were less effective. It was during the
initial years of project implementation that meaningful changes in the seed
farm component could have been brought about. Unfortunately, however,
progress of development of the seed farm received relatively limited
attention during the initial years. Later attempts to reformulate this
component were unsuccessful. A major IBRD mission which reviewed the project
in 1980 concluded that despite substantial problems the settlement component
of the farm had met with some success. The mission also pointed out that the
low productivity, questionable economics and technical problems of the farm
could be addressed by improved drainage, better management, technical
assistanct and further investment. However, the rationale for the farm
(reducing imports of seed, and having a large facility to handle seed,



-xvii-
instead of having many small private farmers grow seed) was not questioned,
despite official indications from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) that its
policy of creating a centralized seed production system was changing, and
that it favored continuing import of seed, particularly potatoes. Several
attempts to reach an agreement with MOA during follow up supervision on a
restructuring of the seed farm proved unsuccessful. In fact, the supervision
mission frequency appears to have been a reflection of IBRD's frustration in
not being able to generate a technically and institutionally acceptable
solution for the seed farm, and to speed up design and construction of the
infrastructure component. Very substantial staff resources were also devoted
to review of procurement procedures for the project. IBRD responses to
requests for clearance were prompt.
Government's Performance
24.     The implementation of the credit component reflected a pragmatic
attitude of BM, particularly a desire to develop a investment banking
capability. Although it took BM some time to understand its role in the
project, it ultimately executed this project component in a timely manner.
However, its desire to rapidly develop a lending portfolio, encouraged by
IDA, sometimes overshadowed prudent banking judgements. The Government's
performance in Nubaseed was not altogether unsatisfactory. Despite the
rigidities inherent in public sector management, Nubaseed was successful in
implementing a complete settlement program in the desert and made endeavors
at production of increasing quantities of seed. The farm's problems were to
a considerable extent the result of factors beyond the control of the farm's
management. Nevertheless, astute project management and pragmatic decision
making during the project's early phases might have avoided some of the
farm's technical and financial problems. Concerning the infrastructure
component the Ministry of Irrigation and EAPAD competently handled the
technical aspects of the project; the major delays in implementation
reflected the need to solve extensive technical problems, frequent staff
turnover, and generally slow progress of civil works construction.
25.     Government was required to arrange local funds for project implement-
ation considerably in excess of those planned at appraisal, thus raising its
contribution from 27% to 522. These unforeseen requirements were met. In
terms of USDollars, however, the Government's contribution remained about the
same.
Lessons Learned
26.     The major lessons which IBRD learned during the implementation of
this project in Egypt are as follows:
(a)      When the original objective of the project (export promotion
of fruits and vegetables) was judged by cettain experts to be
increasingly doubtful, preparation could nave limited the
project's exposure to high risk investments, and focussed on
other crops with the potential for increases in value added
and foreign exchange earnings, limiting the projects'
involvement in fruits and vegetables.



-xviii-
(b)      The development of the seed farm included a major settlement
program, the requirements of which, in terms of design and
management, proved to be beyond Nubaseed implementation
capacity. In designing the seed farm the risks from inability
to find the needed high caliber management and technical
expertise should have been adequately recognized; this was not
sufficiently reviewed by IBRD.
(c)      Had supervision missions recognized the problems of the seed
farm during the early stages of project implementation, it
might not have been so difficult to addrees implementation and
institutional issues and to take corrective action.
(d)      In designing the seed farm component, IBRD should have more
critically questioned the Government's policy concerning
establishing large State owned seed farms, by evaluating the
operations of state owned institutions in this field.
(e)      In accepting the project's financial intermediary selected by
the Egyptian authorities, a bank with no experience in
agroindustry investment banking or in IBRD financing and
procurement procedures, IBRD should have more carefully
assessed BM's training and technical assistance requirements.
(f)      IBRD should have more carefully checked the capabilities of
the consultants engaged by Nubaseed.
(g)      Intensive IBRD supervision by itself was ineffective in
improving project management performance.
(h)      It was not practical to have Nubaseed engage design
consultants for the West Nubariya main drain and
rehabilitation of the Nasr canal works for which EPAD? and MOI
respectively were responsible; such arrangement made
coordination between the consultants, EPADP and MOI very
difficult, and reduced the effectiveness of the consultants.
(i)      Greater attention should have been paid to the financial and
maintenance problems Nubaseed would have to face in obtaining
and operating a large number of heavy machinery, including the
need for operator training.
2208C



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOR
A Fruit and Vegetable Development Project.
(Credit No. 1276 T-EGT.)



Report Contents
subject                                                      Page
*   Curcency Equivalents, Weights and Measures.                                   4
*   Terms & Abbreviations.                                                        5
I   SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS:                                                       6
II  INTRODUCTION:                                                                 13
*  Agricultural Seccor Before Implementation.                                 14
*  Project Objectives.                                                        16
*  Establishment of a New Seed Production Corporation.                        16
*  Proceeds of The loan.                                                      18
*  Administration & Reporting.                                                19
*  Sources of Information on Which PCR is Based.                              19
III PROJECT IDENTIFICATION & PREPARATION:                                         20
*  Origin.                                                                    21
*  Project Aims & Targets.                                                    23
*  Project Area.                                                              23
*  Components of che Project.                                                 24
*  Changes Made in the Project Scope.                                         28
*  Consultants.                                                               28
IV  IMPLEMENTATION:                                                               29
*  Parcicipants in The Project.                                               30
*  Start Up.                                                                  30
*  Implemencation Componeiits.                                                31
Bank Misr.                                                             32
- 1-



Subiect                                                      ,a,
. Nubaseed Co. (NSPC).                                                   42
. Union of Producers a Exporters of Horticultural Crops (UPEEC).    55
. Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC).                                      57
. El-Wudi & The Nile Export Companies.                                   59
. Egypti=n Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP).               60
. Ministry of Irrigation (Reliaing of the Canal).                        73
. Vegetabla Breeding & Resca %h Institute, MOA.                          77
!  Seed Cartification DeparcemYt.                                        80
V     OPERATING PERFORMNCE:                                                   ,  82
*  Atual Withdrawals During Years of Implmencacion.                        84
VT    FT4AICIAL PERFORMANCE:                                                      86
7tI  trSTirI CAL PE RORANCEA  V  LOPMT:                                           88
*  Institutional arrangemnts.                                              89
*  Managemenc & Organizationsi Effectiveiiess.                             91
Y;II  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION:                                                      92
IX    A4EXES                                                                     95
At tachnment 1.
Yillds of major vegetable c:ops on the National lavel.                  96
*  .Acchc.ene 2 
Seed potatoes impor:ed by POC & UP.HC.                                  99
Attachment 3
Financial Status of :he Projec:.                                        lOl:
*  kttachment 4
Insticutional Performance.                                              115
*-2 -



Subject                                                        se
*  Attachment 5
Private Subprojects for Companies & Farms Financed Through Bank Misr          117
* Attachment 6 :
Study Tours & Trainning Courses for NSPC Staff.                               120
*  Attachmenc 7 :
Summary of Coclusions of the Final Report of "ULG".                           123
* Attachment 8 .
Organizational Chart for Nubaseed.                                            126
* Attachment 9 :
Letters of Agreement Between "IDA" & the Government.          .               128
* Attachment 10:
Haps                                                                          132
-3_



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -         Egyptian Pound (EE)
US$ 1.00              -        E£ 0.59 /1
EE 1.000             a         US$ 1.69 million /1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          a         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Km)     a         0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (mt)    a         1.000 kg.
1 hectare (ha)       a         2.47 actes
I hectare (ha)        a        2.38 feddans
1 feddan  (fd)                 0.I.2 hectares
1 feddan  (fd)                 1.04 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
(Starting July 80, Fiscal year was changed to: July 1 to June 30)
/L At parallel market exchange rate, as at time of Appraisal (October/
November 1975).
4



TERMS & ABIRVIATIONS
Wherever used in chis project coWletion report, unless the context
ochervise requiress the following terms have the respective ammings
there-in set frth:
HOA                 inistry of Agriculture.
.10I                inisty of trri1gcion.
EPADP              Egyptian Public Auchority for Drainage
Projeccs.
EAO                Egptian Aricultural organization.
LDCO               Land Developmt and Cultivation Organization.
LBO                Land Reelmation Organization.
LRPO               Lnd Rehabilication and Agriculcural Projects
organiation.
.(SPC              Wubariya Seed Productio  Corporation (Nubaseed).
POC                Potato Growers Cooperative.
UPEIC              Uaion of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural
Crops.
CAES               Central Admiiscradion for Ecoomics a Scatisticts, .1OA.
CAS                Central Administracion for s*s, M.
MCIP               Egyptian Main Canals  mprovement Project (Amarican AID
Projecc)
x & E Unit          initorviag and Evaluation Unit, MOA.
Covernment         The Covernment of the Arab Republic of Egypc.
Gov.               Covernorate.
Feddan a 0.42 hectares.
l ~   ~    ~      5



8UIQ 0E XN=XIX5.~~
t~~~MIR   FCNLSOS
II~~~~~~~S.



1- SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS OF
THE PCR REPORT.
1.01-   Implementation of the project took eight years and half instead of
five years as what was indicated in the Credit Loan Agreement
(21276iECT).
1.02-   Until December 31,1982, (the original closing date indicated in the
credit agreement), only $ 34,7 million were withdrawn from the
credit proceeds (69.4Z of the anticipated expenditures).
1.03-   As agreed with IDA the loan account was kept open to December 31,84,
(ie. two years beyond the closing date estimated at appraisal.)
1.u4-   WDA agaitn agreed to keep the loan account (for EPAD? only)through
Ducembur 31,1985, in order to allow for the delivery of equipment
to be purchased by EPADP for chanel maintenance in the Nubaryia
Area.
Actual expenditures till Dec. 31,1985 by all agencies imple-
menting the project amounted to US $ 48.67 million (97.3% of the
anticipated expenditures.)
1.05-   During the first three years of implementation, only US $ 6.6
million were withdrawn from the credit proceeds instead of
US $ 29.3 million as projected in the Staff Project Report
(pages 74 & 75). That was due to the fact that no director or
coordinator was appointed to follow up implementation duting
chat period. Also no adequate orientation was made available
abouc the project to the concerned agencies to get them well
aquanted of the project loan and to show them how to get
quick benifit from it, which resulted in avoiding some of
them to use proceeds allocated under this project.
-7-



Furthermore intrascructuro eocablishuacs and housing  daffice
Cacilicies on NSPCe farm and desipns 8 constructions by SPADP & NOt
during this period were very very slow.
1.06- na MY opinion chere should have been a preparacion period of not less
tlhan 2-3 years for thu completion of infrasceuctute on NSPC and che
proparations of the appropriate desixns for the Main Drain & the Nasr
Canal civil works before the begininx of alemmeation of this
project.
1.07-   The higb interest races (boch on the foreign credit frm the loan
(102) and on the local loans obtaied from Bank Misr) for the five
agricultural previously designated studied subprojoct.  apleented
by compaies and cooperative uner the Ministry of Agriculture was
not favourble enough co encourage them to use the loan proceeds.
US $ 24.8 million were allocated for thm at che start of
implemntacion, but they only used US $ 14.5 million.  Moreover
some of them did not use any of the mouncs allocated to them.
(Sae pages 22 & 25).
Allocacions not used by the said five comnies were trans-
ferred to finance move agro-industrial A food security subprojects
and for the purchase of more equipent needed for the  ain Drain
implemented by £PADP.
I. C-  The impldmentacion of the N4ubarya Seed Farm component faced many
?roblams; almost from the start.
tc was ac an easy job for NtSPC ac che start of the project
:o product a verf substansial volum of seeds -as projacted - co
reduce imports and annaace self sufficiency in a relatively
short tim in chac isolated desert area without:-
(.)   housing accomodacicas;
(ii)  fresh wacar, elactricit7 and infras;=ct:urs faci.i:ies;
%iUi) approprisce office arrangemencs;
-8 -



(iv)  appropriate qualified and trained staff;
(v)   complete internal and central efficient drainage net-work,
as internal and main (central) drainage net-work, are todate
at PCR time not yet completed.
But as soon as building facilities and infrastructural
establishments were set up and the managerial staff was
formed, results began to be achieved.
The foundation of a specialized vegetable seed production
authority has now been laid down, where:-
(i)   isolated areas for producing registered seeds on the farm
were made available. Quantities of them are now produced
on 'the farm in cooperation with the Vegetable Research
Institute, (IOA);
(ii)  in spite of the fact that the target of producing 50% of
the vegetable seed requirements of rgypt is not yet
aclhieved, yet for some kinds of seeds like wa.termelon
and muskmelon, the production of certified seeds by
Nubaseed (on Nubaseed farms and on other farms under
thc full direction and supervition of Nubeseed staff)
reached in 1985 wore than 100% of the requirements of
the Country, which resulted in stopping the importation
of watermelon and muskmelon seeds;
(iii) it is anticipated that after the completion of che Main
Drain by EPADP and the relining ant maintenance of the
Nasr Canal by .X0I, which are still at the end of December
1985, not yet completed, the total production of seeds on
che farm would be raised by not less than 252.
(iv)  certified vegetable seeds which are now produceed on the
farm, are neatly packed in one-kilogram cans or neat
plastic or aluminum packages marked with "Nubaseed"
emblem;
-9-



(v)   there has been improvemnt of the marketing operation which
is now carried out directly by the Nubaseed Company.
Furthermore there is becte'r care of machinery and seed
extruction equipmenc and of better seed storage arrangements;
(vi)  on the human side, a comunity of over 5,000 people has been
settled in the fringe of the desert with provision of pure
water, electriciey, schools and headilch clinic, which Cannot
be taken lighcly in a country such as tgype, overcrowed by
urban communities and farm labour migrating to cities and to
Arab Countries;
1. 0B-   The project credit compound was modified during implemenation to
accomodace changes in che demand of funds. Accordingly Bank Misr
ana IDA agreed to expand che line of credit to processing and
marketing of basic agricultural products and food security sub-
projects. Following chose changes, Bank Wsr developed its own
insticucioal capacity sufficiently to implemet the credic
program effectively using about US $ 15.3 million from the Loan
*ucauds insctad of only  US $ 9.3 million which were allocated
at the start of implementation. A loan agriculcural departemut
in Bank Niar as a unic to study and, follow-up the agricultural
developmet and food secuwrity subprojtacts have been established.
(see pages 29 & 30).
L.09-   A number of cold stores 4 freezers, and cransport facilities were
=ada available for UPEHC a PCC. under che project. So cold
stores were established on Hlubaseed Farm as a resulc of s:opping
che produc:ion of seed potatoes on the farm completely which -was
-on  ;f che mia targets of che projoct (see pages 41 5 42).
1.10-   42 Plastic  -.een houses were established under the project on
Kaha Vegetable aesearch Sctzcion farm provided by boch drip and
.'ist irrigation, which gave high yields compared to average
'til51 in the open air. (see page 68). As a resulc Of that
MOA is now undercaking che responsibilicty of establishing 4n
- 10 -



extensive national program for erecting 100,000 plastic green houses
on a five year period (1985-1986/1989-1990), most of them would be
in the new lands (desert areas).
1.11-   As a result of breeding new high yielding veriecties and hybrids of
vegetable seeds by the Vegetable Research Institute, MOA, avorago
yields df major vegetable crops on the National Level have been
raised as shown on Attachment No. 2. Moreover some new crops which
were nor prevailing before 1980, like strawberries are now produced,
covering all the local neads and programes for exporting air shipments
of them began to take place during the last three years.
1.12-   A Seed Extraction line and a Seed Cleaning Station were established
under the pro,ect on Nubseed Farms. They started working in
cooperation with CAS since 1984. Moreover a seed certification
unit was established in 1984 under the Central Administration of
Seeds, MOA. Five modern seed processing and cleaning plants with
a capacity of 6 tons per hour for each and a central lab fully
equipped are now also being established under the EMCIP American
AID project as units for seed certification.
1.13-   Implementation of the lining & repairing of the Nasr canal,
including design, took substantial time; rehabilitation.at
one point was six years behind schedule. The Nubariya Main
Drain constructions also suffered from substantial delays.
Both (Main Drain & Nasr Canal) establislunents are not yet
completed. They are schedulted to become operational at
the end of June,1986.
1.14-   Technical assistance to NSPC proved inaffective for most of
the time, the consultants appeared to have lacked specific
experience and were generally ineffective in their contacts
with local staff. Design consulnants for the civil wor-ks
uperated satisfactorily.
- 11 -



14l5- :4o fasing or priority timetable was given to the implemelatation,?f
che projoect in the Staff Appraisal Report, azd thus impleMentation
in each individual component was left 'to the agency implemencing it.
l.lh-   It is now erly-at PCR time - to predict final economic evaluation
abwut the project, as some of the essential components are noc yet
compleced. (see attachment No. 4).
It is clear at this stage, compared to the appraisal expecta-
tions, that the project appears to be worthwhile in retrospect, as
it has achieved appropriate results in most fields with some delays
La imvlementacion,although it has faced may constcaints.
- 12 -



II- INTRCDucTION
- 13 -



It. INTRODUCTION
2.01-   The Development Projecc Agreement (Credit No. 1276-EGT.) for increasing
and improving horticultural production and exports was signed berween
the Arab Republic of Egypt and IDA on June 11,1976.
It became effective on September 10,1976.
2.02-   Agricultural Sector Before implementation:
The cultivated area in the Egyptian territory is only about 21
percent of Egypt's total land area, or about 2.53 million hectares,
equivalent to about six million fedcans.  About 51    million fd. of
chat area is in the valley of the Nile and Delta, known as the "Old Lands'
and about half a million fd. of reclaimed land, almost all of which is
on the fringes of the Nile Valley and, especially, of the Delta is called
the "New Lands ". However, since two or more crops are grown each year
on much of the land, the cropped area averages about 11.5 mn fd. Egypt
has virtually no rainfall, and agriculture is dependent on the Nile:
successive dammings have enabled almost the whole of the Old Lands to
benefit from per&anial ..rrigation. The flat topography and rich soil,
and the long agricultural traditions, have also led to a relatively high
level of land productivity, although there is considerable scope for
further increases.
Appraisal report presented in May,1976 stated that agriculture at
that time accounted for approximately 3Q percent of CNP and some 52
percent of exports of goods, and employed just under half the labor
force; it remained the dominant sector of Egypt's economy. Crops, as
opposed to livestock, accounted for about 75 percent of agricultural
output, with cotton, maize wheat, rice and berseem (a fodder crop)
being the major crops, while about 15 percent of output was from fruit
and vegetables. Egypt's main agricultural exports were cotton (LU 259nn)
accounting for 75 percent of agricultural exports in 1974, rice (1E40tmu),
and fresh and processed vegetables (LE 15 mn). The main industrial
exports, cotton yarn and textiles based on domestic cotton, accouted for
LE 116 mn or 37 percent of industrial exports.  On the other hand, there
were substantial imports of food and feed, including wheat and flour
- 14 -



(about LE 296 mn in 1974), sugar, feed grains and mat, altogethar
accouncing for LE 338 mn 27 percent of tocal imports.
The Government's basic objective in developing horticulture at
the preparation period was to generate foreign exchange by developing
che already significant exports of fruit and vegetables, as well as
of increasing horticultural supplies oa the domestic market to meet
the ever-growing home demand. To this end it soeked to improve
horticultural inputs, especially seeds, to improve processing and
marketing through agroindustrial credic development, and to strengthen
iaiscirucions concerned with horticulcure.
Abouc 8 percent of the cropped area was cultivated with vegetables
produciug abouc 10 percent of cotal agricultural output.
Vegetable yields were low in comparison co Egypc's high pocential,
partly because of the poor of seed used. Only about 20 percenc of
vegetable seeds (noc including seed potatoes) were certified, most of
these were produced by the Ministry of Ariculture, either directly or
unier contract by farmers. The rest of the requirements were met,
inadequacaly, either by farmers saving their own seed or by local
dealers who produced for sale. A ready market for importcd seed
existed at two or thre. ctimes the usual seed prices. The Ministry
lacked trained staff, equipment and the necessary control machinery
cotcrol machinery to suppo4rvis, seed production.  Tie iniatry's
Vegecable Research Inscicuce, which breeds vegetable seed, lacked
oquipsenc and facilicies; also the Seed Certification Agency of che
Miniscry of Agriculture lackedl equipment and facilicies to extend
its accivicies to vegetable seeds.  The projecc would support Che
sctps the Covernment was then caking :o improve domescic vegetakle
seed production.
As pocatoes ara a uajor Egypcian field crop and czaditional
axport commodicy, there was greac demand for helping PGC to build
cold scores so that domesc.c seed-potctoes can be kapt for use in
the following year's crops.
The El-WAdi Export C3mpany, the Mile Company and the Union of
°roducers and Exporters of Horticultur3l Crops (UPESC), who handle
che sajor shareof fcurof Igypc's hor:iculcural exports:  citrus
Cruic, potacoes, tomacoes and green beans, .ould also be helped ta
izprove cheir inadequate packing, transport and storage facilities.



Serious problems of waterlogging and salinity have arisen in the
New Lands West of Nubariya since irrigation was introduced in this area
some fifteen years before. Before irrigation the water table was about
30 to 50 meters below ground level in the western part of the area, and
about 6 to 30 meters in its eattern part, depending on topography. At
the start of the project it was estimated that the groundwater level
has risen quit close to the land surface in the northernpart of the
area, and also in the Mechanized Farm near the NSPC area, posing
serious threats of waterlogging and salinity to the whole of the
area. The Nubariya Canal, which is the only source of irrigation,
was then acting as a drain collecting the saline return flow from
the already irrigated 180,000 feddans, so that the irrigation water
wasbecoming increasingly saline. Therefore a drainage program in
this area had to be proposed to construct aMain Outfall, independent
of the Nubariya Canal, to collect the saline return flow and
discharge it by gravity into the sea. Without the construction of
this drain, waterlogging and salinity problems would become so acute
that a Seed Production Farm output was likely to begin co suffer
seriously within five years.
2.03-   Project 0,
The project was then aiming at:
(a) Supporting the steps the Covernment was taking to improve
.dumestic vegetable seed production.
(b) Increasing and improving horticultural production and exports
co reach the supply and certificatiotn of high quality
vegetable seeds chac meets at least 50% of Egypc's seed
needs for major vegetable crops within 5 years, leading
to complete self sufficiency in future.
(c) Reducing imports of seeds and seed potatoes.
(d)  Building institution related to horticultural production and
marketing.
(e)  Helping form the basis for a vegetable export industry, for
whichi Egypt has comparative advantages.
- 16 -



(0)  Ifvlpe  i  a4 mtakstuk  protitductive vtse u ulie lIL--Vy t.Ib; I I11 ia*-ei
invested in the already-reclaimed lands.
(g)  Helping the country's developmuent cred1c system throutogh
i rtL:ALio41l itl *inle'   R Kgyp)L' m;I jor vtommervi.ul t):IIk.: 'RIa.nak
.lisr", of a unit for cer.m-L.ndlitg for agru-industriua
purpose.
;2.04-  'rh.- KI..tabhl ishmuent t., ri aew Set.d Produt' Liotn corpolrat i..n:
The production of vegetable seedswould be assume.d by ;a newly
formed Government owned corporation which would be financially
autonotmus   commercially oriented, and staffed with a high
caliber personnel rectuited from various deparcments of the
;4inistry of Agriculture and relaced organizations.  To atcracc
first class staff, appraisal report suggested that salaries and
benefits would be above prevailing levels and social  =uenicies
would be provided.
rhe Co,rporat ion would lhuvt. thre* Ut*parLaRULL.I.:  A /. t,gi. t.1. I
anti Potato Seted Department, a Fwield Depurtmenc, ind U)in trrigLaLioe
and Draiziage Department. - Undur the overall control *C c ite
Managing Director of the company, the Director oiC thse Seed
Departmtet would be responsible for all dturies r.eLacinL, Lui
roguing and inspection, processing, quality control and
rnarkacLn-.  His work would be Eully  +oordinacud with Lil;lL t)'
the Firm l)ire:ctor, so Lhat th.. locatioul, arv:i, i..rvi.est ;.riwtu,
jai 1; imouints harvescud auid .il I othbr rolvi.v:bc ::pvot1.
vegetable cultivation wouLd b.. agrc:tij  .:r1'a
1Ifa, r  t I )gtLurpo.st;,  t 1u1   0) ri..l i i I.. III   *I.*r ;   .1.,   ..1   .
bus composed of cwo halves, one iollowing a potaLis. OrLDj-rul.t.b.If
paccern and che other following a Lomaco crop-rm.iciu :aLL-.. tn.
-6-lBEST. COPY AVAILAB



Irrigation and Drainage Department would be headed oy the
Irrigation and Drainage Director who would be responsible to the
.Managing Director of the company. He will be responsible for
the operation and maintenance of civil works and for water
distribution.
During the negotiations with Moh, it was realized that
finding a suitable area for producing not less than 502 of
the Egyptian needs of vegetable seeds 4ith isolated areas
for preventing cross pollination is not available in the
old lands, and thus it was agreed with MOA to
establish the newly Seed Production Corporation on a newly
reclaimed area of 23000 fd in an area known as West Nubaryia
Irrigated by the Nubaryia Canal. It was indicated in the
appraisal report that climatic and soil conditions in that
area are favourable for vegetable seed production provided
that water logging and salinity hazards would be avoided.
The Government agreed to establish a charter of the
proposed NSPC, and appoint the management personnel, namely
the General Manager, the Field Director,the Irrigation and
Drainage Director, and the Seed Production and Processing
Director who would be engaged as soon as possible for the
development of the 23,000 feddans that Governmenc has
selected for seed production. This Government land would
be granted to NSPC which would own or lease it for
sufficient time (30 years) co operate ic.
..05-   Proceeds of the toan;
Proceeds of the loan for items to be financed under this
project amounted to the equivalent of US $ 50,000,000 in various
currencies.
The closing date- as stated in Section 2.04 of che Loan
Agreemeat - was December 31,1982, but as an exceptional case and
in order to allow EPADF to deliver equipment needed for channel
maintenance, IDA has kept che loan account open through December
31,1985.
- 18 -



2.06-   Adminiscration & Regorting:
No Cull-time direvtur or vourdiuutor was appoinLdt lur  itrt-
project during imnplementation.  Morcover no full-time aldmi:iistr:a-
tion has boon devoted tn the projecc for the d;:ily toll,w-tip
with iau ovtaral2   authority aind responsibiLities for effetiviv
Lmplumentzation in all parts of the project.
Thus no quartarly or 4nnuals reports were prulpared or submicLuj8
during impieunt4ation for thu on-guong progress utwhieveid in ali
;spucts aC thu Froject.
2.07     Sources of Informacion on whlith the PCR is ba&sed:
2.07.0l-   Prepari.ion Mission Report:  i1griettltuaral Crt'di.t'Fruic
and vegetable Development Pre juct, FOtA/BRO 0P, .My
21, 1.985.
2.07.02-   Statf Project Report, (Report No.  11L-1:UT), Otbcumtenc ot
The World Bank, "cacd .Nay 12,197h.
2.07.03-    Oevelopmuent Loan AgruemQne far Fruir ;and Veagc;abl,
Davelopment Prnoect Number 127h T-FO.T.
2.07. o4-   Report submicted by Agencius wi hi   t ok I,:irt i,*
imptLiuwenting thu, projucj  .
2.u7. *)4.Ut-  ;teLp.orL uiz Apri l I :)'-::s .   I tu .,.,,i   .i
,Ja                         [ti~~~~~~1dt O   *V  AlIrIt 11'licr:l   :tC;,i  
e~~~~~~~~~~~~ rIr, :t1  ;II .ss:.'iI.a 33.45 .,.... {I .uis t;§: '*.;....... s,,  .at
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1insii.*.d *tn  "IX;: I.t:.tri: i ................. ap i '  ".
V63                  2.07.04.02-  Progress Reporc on Ot rb.i ,   _ , .,
'Svtsucabld Seud.N Acivitt:,. !.. !, _i     ,:   r.
At                                    Dervu:l upmene Sy,scernsi Prto>a. t, ; .!i) -t
l.t)7.05-    ?uriouic;aL reports alnd S;;sciL i:i ,.,r                .r tl  I .......................1,.: I
Adminiscracion ifor 'EcontiumPs &                 S   :*0A.
- 19 -



I
1II- PROJECT IDEI4TIFICATION & PtEPAPATION
- 20 -



III. PROJECT IDE.NTIFICATION & PREPARATION.
3.01- Origin:
3.01.01- This Project was first idencified by an IBRD Sector Mission
which visited Egypc in October/November 1972 and presented
its findings in a Report on Agro-Industries and Rural
Development in Egypt in March 1973.
it was prepared by an FA0/IBRD CP Mission which visited
Egypt in November, 1974 and March 1975. Then it was preapprais-
ed by an IBRD Mission in June 1975 and field appraised in
October/November 1975. Detailed findings of the Appraisal
Mission are included in the Staff Project Report.
The Project was regarded by the IBRO Sector Mission,
which visited Egypt in January/February 1975, as one of the
priority projects for which the Government was seeking Bank
financing.
3 .01.02- The Government's basic objective in developing horticulture
at the preparation period of the project was to generate
foreign exchange by developing the already significant
exports of fruit and vegetables, as wall as of increasing
horticultural supplies on the domestic market to meet the
evergrowing home demand. To this end it seeked to improve
horticultural inputs, especially seeds, to improve process-
ing and marketing through agricultural credit development,
;nd to strengthen institutions concerned with horticulture.
As mentioned in Pura (2.02), 8 percent of the cropped
area was cultivated with vegetables producing about 10
percent of total agricultural output. Fruits accounted for
about 5 percent of total output, and were grown on about
2 percent of the cropped area, mostly by larger farmers.
While specialty cooperativeswere responsible for some
vegetable crops, a substantial part of fruit and vegetable
productionwas marketed privately.  The biggest horticulcural
export crop was citrus fruit, export of which in 1974 amountod
to about LAE IL million.  Potato exports (mostly to the UK)
- 21 -



were about LE 6 million. Export of tomatoes together with
smallur quantities of green beans, green peppers and
artichokes, amounted to about LE 5 million and appeared to
be fast increasing. This compares with total non-processed
agricultural exports of about L.E 350 million. About 202 of
the citrus and potato crops were exported, although exports
of other vegetables (apart from onions of which exports were
about IE 8 million in 1974) were still small in relation to
tocal production.
3.01.03-   Vegetable yields were low in comparison to ECYT's high
potential as mncioned in Pars. 2.02 (page 15) and as
it is clear in attachment No. 2, which shows yields of
major vegetable crops in 1977. The Ministry lacked
trained staff, equipmet and the necessary control
machinery to supervise seed production. The Ministry's
Vegetable Research Institute, which breeds vegetable
seeds, lacked equipment and facilicies; also the Seed
Certificacion Agency of the Miniscry of Agriculture
lacked equipment and facilities to excend ;$s activities
to vegetable souds.
3.01.04-   Potatoes are a major Egyptian field crop, and a
traditional export comodicy. Potato production and
marketing were the responsibility of one of the most
accive of the specialtycooperacives, the Potato Growers'
Cooperative (PGC), which represents over 33,000 farmers
through its membership of 392 village-level cooperacives.
It is responsible for meeting thei: seed-pocato require-
ments, for which bet-c'en 20 - 25 thousand tons were
imported annually; the cost of these imports varies,
due mainly co international price fluctuacions. I:
was LE 2 million in 1976 and nearly LE 6 million in
1975. So as to reduce dependence on impor:s PGC
whished to build cold stores so chat domestic seed-
potatoes could be kepc for use for che following
year's c:op.
- 22-



3.01.05- Three public sector companies, the El-Wadi Export Company,
the Nile Company and the Union of Producers and Exportecr.i
of tlorticultural Crops (UPEHC), handle tiw m.jor sitare ot
four of Egypt's horticultural exports: citrus fruit,
potatoes, tomatoes and green beans. All three were
attempting to improve their currently inadequate packaging,
transport and storage facilities.
3.01.06- Studies before implementaL.on showed tlhat all citrus
exports were handled by El-Wadi Compaiiy, a public
sector company, which also exported other fruit and
some other agricultural produce.
Most exports of vegetable crops, itLcluding potato
exports for PGC, were handled by the Nile Company, a
public sector company of similar size to El Wadi, and
by UPEHC.
3.02-   Project Aims & Targets
See para (2.03) of this report, which includes the project
alms and targets for supporting the steps the Government was
taking to improve domestic vegetable seed production and
improving horticultural production and exports.
3.03-   Project Area:
There are several areas, in which the project was implemented:
(A) Bank Misr: for establishing an Agricultural Developement
Lending Unit, and for financing subprojects
through Bank Misr. (See details in Para 4.03.01).
(B) Farm For Producing Improved Vegetable Seeds: About 23000 feddans
of reclaimed land in the West Nubaria area was .:husun
for this purpose under a company called: Nubariya Seed
Production Corporation (NSPC) newly established on
April 12,1976, operating under trhe Ministry or
Agriculture.
- 23 -



e
(C) Thr Four Public Institutins Engaged in Production & Exportacion
df Fruit & Vegetable Seeds:
(i)   PGC;
(ii)  El-Wadi Co.;
(iii) Th. Nile Co.;
(iv)  UPEUC.
(NB) El-Wadi Co. did not use the proceeds alIicated from the Credit,
as mentioned in Chapter ..I.
(U) VugutatbLe Urueding & Research Tnstitutu, undvi Liuw MiaisLry ul
Agriculture, which participsted in res"rch lor vegecabL. seed
production in collaboration with NSPC. Research was done on
NSPC farm, and the institute fams in Dokki and  Caha.
(E) Miaistry of Irrigation (MOI); for the repairing and relining of
the Nasr Canal in the Nubariya Area.
(F) EPAD?: for the escabish.mt of a 67 to 70 ta drainage outfall
i% West Nubariya.
3.04-   Components of the Project:
As indicated in the appraisal report,  the projvct components
were grouped into fou catsgories:-
A. Vegecable Seed CoM onencs:
Three components were directad Co cover faciltids for che
procuction, supply and car'tiicacion of higin quality
vegetable seeds, with the aim of mescing aic ivasc 5
percenc af Egypt's needs of seeds fur majuor *i.tcabLe
crops within five years, leading to comupleco selt-
sufficiency in future.  These components include:
- 24 -     BEET. COPY  AVAiLtAB!L£



(i)    Establishment of the Nubariya Seed Production Corporation
(NSPC) to establish and operate a seed farm.on reclaimed
land to the west of the Delta, in an area known as West
Nubariya, on an area of 23,000 fd nec, irriguted by the
Nubariya Canal.
As indicated in the appraisal report, climutic and
soil conditions in that area are favorable for
vegetable seed production, provided that water
logging and salinity hazards would be avoided. The
area is part of the first zone serviced by the Nasr
Canal, a main subsidiary of the Nubariya Canal, and
is already provided with nearly coMplttLd irrigatiuni
and drainage facilities. Some works remained to be
completed, including lining of secondary atnd tertiary
canals, excavation of secondary and tertiary drains,
and the construction of field drains, while parts of
the existing network needed repairs.
This component would include:
(a)  Protection against water logging aqnd salination
hazards by sealing and relining existing internal
irrigation canals, completion of existing
open drains, aud provision of field drainage.
(b)  Completion of general infrastruc:Lua ct) ensurv
adequate working and living condicions for
the workers and staff involved imV Lhe P'ruject,
including asphalting of about 23 kum ut rwads,
supply of water and power, and cutmstruction
of houses and offices.
(c) Provision of farm machinery, s.u processing
equipment and vehicles.
- 25 -



(d)  Provision of 174 zan-nths  technical asistanc. to
develop lUPC manasgemt  and to train its staff.
Seed Production by N8PC on a rscriceted area under its
direct control, as aimd by the project, would ensure s;afor
seed production, taking account of needs for rotation and
iaolaticn and yield requirmets.  OM  would be then the
nucleus c  a vagetable seed industry Ln Zypt.  Bemnf its of
modern production and processing technology would be better
attained in the concentrated area, where managemnt coordi-
nation and  obility are asured, and where services and
technical asistance could be used efficiently, comaed
with the scattered production under costract Ln farms
throughot tgye.  Seeds wuld continue to be sold through thu
cooperativ  organixations, H OPC's om  outlets, and euisting
private traders.
(ii)  Assistance to the  nistry of Agriculture's Seed Cartification
Aency by providing laborator   equipmwt and transportation
facilities which wuld allow to expand its activicies co
include control and certification of vegetable seed.
(iii) Assistance to the' Vegetable Research Itnituce to strengthen
research and breeding capacity for breader and foundation
seed, including progras of disease and pest-resistant
veriecies of vegetable seeds. Funds from the project were co be
provided to finance laboratory equipment, greenhouses arnd
ctransportation facilities to facilicace cVnUVUaieoQ4 LWn
between research and production areas, as well as technical.
assistance to enable local staff co benifit irom incernacional
exprtise in this field.
3. Drainage & Irligation Comoonents:
(a)  The abundance of irrigation water as a result uf Aswan ;igis war
led to the increase of water application on tne farms, :ausints
falteration iz the agricultural sector due L4 the rise os gouLd
water asd the lack of drainage facilities, itaich resulted ia
waterlogging and salinity in boch the old and the new reulaim.o
lands.
-26--



(b)  To provide sufficient food and food products to meet the ever
increasing requirements of the rapidly growing population, thu
Government had to concentrate on improving Lhe drainage
conditions throughout the whole irrigated lsands of about
6.00 million feddans as manifested in the 5-year plans
(77/78-81/82,82/83-86/87 & 87/88-91192) of the Ministry
of Irrigation which has given high priotity for this
component.
(c)  The project gave great attention to the serious problems of
water logging and salinity in th: ;AJect .irua, whtich has
arisun in the new reclaimed lands since irrigation was
introduced in this area twenty five years ago to the
extent that water-table was very close to  h1w lant
surface in the northern part of the area,' resulting
in severe salinity to the whole area.
J
(d)  The need for the construction of the Nubariya Main.Drain
of about 70 km as a Main Outfall to drain Lhe meant area
became vital and inevitable. This would,collect the
saline return flow and discharge it by gravity to
Mediterranian sea, solving the waterlogging and
salinity problems for an area of about 300,000 fed
of the reclamied new lands in West Nubariya and to
improve the production of the NSPC.
That Main Drain has been designed to *illow major
and minor drains to discharge directly by gravity
itO  i..
2 2, -



(a) The Egyptian Public Authority for Dainage Projects (EPAD?)
of the Ministry of Irrigation undertook the responsibility
of work concerning research, deuiiiging ;ddrdi-6f cueracts;
supervion, execution and the audit process co emurge cthis
Draino under this project.
(f) Allocations were also provided from the project proceeds for
2ee1in the 1nin of. the Nasr Canal, which weas then the main
irrigation canal in the NSPC area.
C. Horticultural DevelgMt, Cousoets
Loans were mada available under the project througti Bank Misr for
sub-projects after suitable appraisal. These components, cover
provision of storage, transport and packing facilities for four
public sector institutions engaged in production, import and
export of potatoes, citru  fruit, and other horticultural crops:
(i)  PGC,  (i) El Wadi,  (iii)  Sile Company and (v) UPEtC.
D. _ro-tnduscries Credit Cgu_nent
Funds were provided for on-lending aud for technical assistance
to Bank Misr, to enable it to establish an Agricultural Develop-
maen Lending Unit.
3.0-  OChanges Made In The Project S_one:
Agreemencihave been reached between IDA and MOA duriu C      1 mpIihtaca-
tion on soma changes in the project scope, as shown in ACt:.u:hrnvc ct9).
Atachmenc 3 (?age 103) aLso shows changes in .rttiic .:Imponvlt .:
agrouil with LDA.
3.06- Consultants:
So consultants from the Egyptian side were used iur the
preparation of the projec:.  All studies were made by an FOA/IrJORLD
3ANK Cooperative program mission in 197t, and discussed wich the
gypcian Authorities.
-28         BEST. COPY AVILABLE



I
IV-  tIPLEMENTATION
I  29 -
- 29 -



IV- W'PLEMENTATION
4.01- Participants in the Project
Authorities and Agencies which participated in implementation
of the project were:-
t.01.01-  Ministry of Agriculture (MOA):
(1) The Vegetable Breeding & Research Institute.
(2) Under-secretariate for International relations.
4.01.02- Nubariya Seed Production Corporation (NSPC).
4.01.03- Union of Producers & Exporters of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC).
4.01.04- Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC).
4.01.05- The Nile Company.
4.01.06- Ninistry of Irrigation (MOI).
401.07- Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP).
401.08- Bank Misr.
4.02-   Start up
4.02-01- The effective date for start-up as stated in the project
agreement (Section 6.03) was September 10,1976.
4.02.02- Nubaseed Company ( NSPC ) was established from che very
begining of implimentation by a Ministerial Decree (No.29
of April 12,1976.)
About 23000 feddans of new reclaimed land in the
project area were chosen as farm for vegesable seed
production.
- 30 -



'..03-
(A)  C!pMnosnts FLnanced Through Bank-Misr to thes I'ive (:"apni.
Under MOA:
AlI?IbCiuntif4ir th. fi.Aluwing ag^esi.it  piro ' idt
Lt.' prujwet's prucogis, by using subloans tlar%nolh Ilkik Misi :-
*  Nuboriyua SsIt  ProIulcition Corpuration (NS&K'.
;Uti u si t' l rudiecvs a lixportars oL luot.ietelti Ira  trrop, (1I'11.114 1-
b   AULs    CU U :r grX CJupVracCive (PCC).
*  'nn Nitv I:' l C any.
* The 1-Aiedi VAprting Company.
Tltw Gvernmnt as borrower onLunc funds it r ottes, ;agvn.iv. i
tL  ;ank Rtiar at an inLgrujst ratu of 8.5Z per .aUItw Iuum r .& a
mae         .,I IS years including S ytnars grace.  Link Mis.  in (trn unk*ut
7           3    0atloacions needed for those agencies at an ituerast race ut L(%:-
.-a    (B)  Food Securi.c  Sub2roiects:
Other allocations wce provided  tu vuupe..raLivivsftud  tLvrivaL'
firms through lank Misr as sublo sn  for .tsabsl shing pro.i 
tM          for ptossessilg, packing and hadliag of hort iulcural crups
and for food security projects It  .n interesc raca of LOS Ct 1LS,
wtch the excepciiou of som  food s,curicy prsaj. cs tIzi4L wur
pruvided subloans at an interest rate at 6Z lv,t. annume as agrwd
with IDA on Aguac 26,1981 (Attachmnt  9 ).
(See poge 31.)
(C)  C...nutics Financed 3irece l  From cho.: Lan:
folloving agencies, have got their alloc.tiuns .irscly
from the loan proceeds at an interest rate of 4:
* The Egyptian Public Authority of Drainage irojoucts (SPAYP).
* Xi niscry of trrigation (W 4I).
*  To Vegetable Sreeding & 3esearch Institutc.
(1) Food security projects are those projects thac priduce food prsducts
to rtpLace che imported ones (i.o-poultry, cacrl*. wmilk prndis.t ¢...
etc.)
- 31 -



4.03.01- BANK MISR:
According to section 3.01 (C) of the Loan Agreement, an
amount equivalent to US $ 34,200,000 was provided from
the proceeds of the project to Bank Misr to finance the
foreign financial requirements of the following subprojects
and components:-
Serial          Subprojects or components         Alounte
No.Aloae
1000 US $
1        Nubaseed Co. (NSPC)                    13,958
2        Union of Producers & gxporters )        0,702
of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC)
3        El-Wadi Export Co.                      5,486
4        El-Nile Co.                             0,492
5        Potato Growers Cooperative (PGV)        4,176
6        General Agro-Industrial Subprojects   9,322
7        Technical Assistance & Training to)
BANK  MISR                       )   0,066
TOTAL                               34,202
The Government as borrower onlent funds to Bank Misr
at an interest rate of 8.5Z per annum for a period of 15
years including five years grace.
Bank Misr in turn onlent allocations required for
those subprojects or components at an interest rate of
10% , with the exception of some food security agro-
industrial subprojects that were provided allocations
at an interest rate of 6% per annum as agreed with IDA
on August 26,1981 (See attachment No. 5 ).
The first five subprojects (Serial NOs. from 1 to 5
above), which represent 72% of che total amount allocated
to Bank Misr were studied and pre-identified in collabora-
tion with World Bank missions, while the other subprojects
- 32 -



which included activities in the fields of poultry and g
production, seat and milk production, cold storing and
frosting, canming and seed production industries was scudijd
and prepared by Bank Misr and agreed upon by the World Banak.
4.03.01.01- Sources of Finance:
.The subprojects financed from this loan
chrough Bank Misr relied on three sources for
covering their total investmeut.*:-
1- Proper or individual financemenc in local
currency, presented from Ole owners' budgucs.
2- Long 4 medium curm loi.a itl Itseal (turri*ii4-
pruseuted from Bank Misr.
3- Long teram loars in foraign currenhies, prosSnOL-
ad from loan 1276 by aank Misr.
4.03.01.02-  The Establishment of an Agricultural Developmuen
Lending Unit:
As ref4rad to in Schedultj 2 (E) a2cachwu tu
the 1ioan agreement the prujuL financoed che
establishment of a loan agriculcural de.pactement
in 3ANK MISR, as a unic to scudy and follow-up
the agricultural developement ;und food secutricy
projects.  It used che rncdrnacional COMUpeCiLiV.
5iddiny*     regulacions of ctt  W.cLh Sank te
gec cuntracted wich "Htidri.ki. .u ", a .1  *CW;)t3
expertise office.  A scaif oaf !5 persons Lnciud-
ing al1 levels oc nanagemuic ov#re t1omiztUnacu * *
this unitc.  They .aqu i i,sivi t it, i   r.ii it i tz. i,.
realizing the purpUSa-s -it :- ,tiliL oll ihv it.su,.U.
of qualified eahnicians Lrum "'lundrickbutt" ..ti
on delegations frm che W"r Id !i.tk.
BEST CWPY AVfI  LE
- 33 -



This unit was found on September 19,1977 by
a dicision from the Bank's board of directors as
a separate department under the Investeament Center.
M4ain tasks of this unit are:-
* Loan implementation.
* Identifying steps for long A medium term lending
to agricultural subprojects.
* Specifying subproject to be financed.
*  Training Bank Misr's staff.
The agricultural development lending unit
is devided to three sectionss-
* The loan preparation section.
 The loan implementation sectiou.
a  The supervision and evaluation section.
This lending unit is still continuing its
job efficiently in identifying, supervising and
evaluating agricultural projects financed by other
loans, two of them are World Bank loans (988 EGT &
2243 ECT).
Technical assistance for Bank Misr:
Under this loan, BankMisr was entitled to
use an amount of US $ 66000 to obtain the
consultancy services and technical assistance
of the German firm called "Handrikson", which
sent an expert (Mr. Karl Hiens Kriechhammar)
who helped Bank Misr in making use of the loan
and arranged some courses of training for the
staff.          -
To Set more benifit from that expert, Bank
Misr has extended his contract against US $
46000 as a new allocation for this purpose.
Accordingly total amount actually paid for
technical assistance amounted to US $ 11200.
- 34 -



4.0.ul.u'J   obstacles At the Start uf'
Du*    e to the long period betwen tliu ppri&Fi&Lioll
(1974) and the actucl sc;art of   c'utivis (0974),
,during which periodh clte uwnacumusic bud4iv  in
the five desipated subprojects wurs' 4thaugod
without adequate orientation to cite pcojecc.
and to che World Bank procedures for usiag
loans, the Wilqtuczacion ac ctw beginining
was very slow.
* The interest rate(on boch local ;td turuign
oIowa)  for Cth  agricultural. *dsig;tad
subprojectc (10) was noc favourable enough
to encourage the concernod companiev tCu use
-f        tlwem.
Therefore some companies rujevtel ur
scopped using the amounts allocated to tchm,
tocally or parcly, after signing contracts
binding them with Bank Hisr, which  auand
difficulties to that ank for mwrketituag tlasu
allocations and re-discribucing ctWM .aiL.r
agreemen  of che Worldl Sak its ftoulluw:-
Subprojects components c
_____________  ___  td cIwpr. a    [ ec; ndgi.tI
It 0 US S  I IOuL SJ
i  LubaseI.ud W. (NSC)    I '1  .    ; ',,   j
2  Union ot Prruducars &
I  ?c;orters ao  Hor:i-              7 0 ,,
vucuLtrul Croips (MuYPt) )'     
3  El-Wadi Export Co.           ,        ;J,t*u
4  El£-ild Co.                  j               ,
5  Pocato Growers Coop.rativud    ,...
Agro-industrial & Food  )
security.subprojec:s  ) I
7  Es,tablishment of cn ArI-) i
culcural Oev. Lending            , I),UA I
L_       TOTAL _
*  US $ 4. 159 million wrrs cran2siX.-r.vd d    I P.o
- 3.5-



* Some subprojects faced difficulties during the
construction period, which took much longer
time than expected due to:
i) the prolonged procedures of the World Bank
in relation to the adjudications, procurement
and awarding contracts of which companies
were not familiar.
ii) the delays of contractors to finish erections
in time.
* Some companies took long time in studying the
erection of some plants:as in-.the case o£erection of
a cold store for seed potatoes on Nubaseed
Farm, and at che end that company decided noc
to have it constructed.
* The drastic changes in the rates of exchange
(foreign currencies versus Egyptian pounds)
were not favourable to food security sub-projects
especially those of poultry and egg production.
The increase in the value of the dollar in the
Egyptian market had affected the income of the
projects either through the high cost of
imported chicks (one day old) or through the
importation of feed ingridients, whereas the
prices of the final production have been
.stable or even reduced in some cases, which
resultad in negative effects on some projects
that hindered the concerned companies from
settling their debts.
* In order to approve financing any subproject,
Bank Misr required - according to its regula-
tions - that the land on which the project
would be erected, be registered and owned to
the sub-borrower so that the bank might be
able to mortgage the projecc for its own
favour. The bank has faced many constraints
- 36 -



in this respect as in many cases the land was
passed or owned to the client but not yet
registered. n most cases the owner of the
land was the Land ReeLmation Authority or
the New Comnmities Authority where the
property of the lands could not be transfered
or registered to the investor before long tim
and only after the implimentation and operation
of the project.
Bank Misr had to take that precaution as
it is responsible for paying the loan's insta-
lements to the Government in their fixed times,
even if the clienc was no:t able to fulfill his
obligations.
It should also be noted that Bank Xisr is
not a developenet bank and, as a commercial
bak it is the first time for the bank to
participate in lending long term loans.
* At the beginning of implimentation, Bank fisr
has observed that the scope of the loan was
very narrow to the extent that the ank
rejected many loan applications as they were
out of tfie scope of the agreement, and
accordingly Sank Misr asked for widening the
scope of subloans for Fruic. and Vaeget:bla
prossesing and packing projects cu euver ;ziao
the production and handling of horticultural
crops.
* An agrometnt bet-deen the (ovcrnmrnt .ina
t'iv World Uank was si2ned .'or this ;ptr-pomv on
June 5,1978 ( Attachment 9).
Itteresc rate for food security prnjects
had also to be lower co encourage investors iL
the ield of development.
BEST. COPY AVAIZ
- 37 -



On August 26,1981, an agreement with the
World Bank was reached to finance food security
projects at an interest rate of 6% instead of
10% (Attachment 9 ).
4.03.01.04-  Subprojects Financed Through Bank Misr:
Over and above the five big subprojects
pre-identified in collaboration with the World
Bank missions, for which separate chapters
will follow including progresses and achieve-
ments the following table includes the general
agro-industrial and food security private
subprojects studied and financed through Bank
Misr:-
- 38 -



Private Sabproje_ts ior Ctupanies   rarms
t*: issaL.J.4alS
Through Bank  Misr.
Withdravals       Local Equivalent
Ciwmatiy                                 Subprojects                        from          of Withidraals        lnterest
the loans        from the loan           rate
us.                 E
tr.col Co. tor Cumatce             Establis loct of Cold Store                 2,262,000            1,635,000              10
(2h10 Ton Capacity)   t Ice factory.
fambo Co.                          Packing Vegetables £ Drying Onions.            173.000             122,000              10
AI-Fayro.z Farnm                   EsiablisB  ent of a horticulltural              13.000                9,000             10
Fparm.
Aladia. Farm                       Grading and Packing Vegetables                 171.000             121,000               6
*                                            (25 Tonslyear.)
A)I:x Co. tar Foods                Broilers (2.4 mill/year) & a feed          -1,609,000            1,250,000               6
mill (8 Tons/htour)
Ali Rida Farm                      Production of 15 mill eggs/year                657,000             720,000               6
Port-Said Co. for Potutry          Production of 43 aill eggs,                  2,724,000           2,066,000               6
64k)0,00 broilers/year 8 a
feedJ mill d1O Tons/hour)
_ ___ ____    _   .  ___. ___           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



rrivate Subprojects for Companies & Farms
Finananced by Subloans
Through Bank Misr.
(Cont.)
Uithdrawals      Local Equivalent
Company                                Subprojects                      from          of withdrawals       lnCLresL
the loans       from the loan          rate
U._S                U E
Misr Co. for Poultry              Production of 15 mill eggs/year             508.000             411,000             6
Misr Co. for Poultry              Production of 24 mill eggs/year           1,026.000             862,000             6
Alwataniya Co.                    Production of Pies & Pastery                238,000             200,000             11
8    Fayoom Food Security Co.          Production of 30 mill eggo/year           1.900,000           1,574,000              6
S
Asy Ayyad Co.                     Production of 15 million eggs &           1,240,000           1.040,000              6
a feed mill (24 Tons/hour)
Antra Co. for Packing             Production of Packing Materials           2,520,000           2,118,000             11
Ubite Rouse Farm                  Cultivation of 50 Fed. of Grapes             12,000               8,000             10
A 20 fed. Other HorticulturalCrop.
.    Al-Shorouk Co. for poultry        Production of 540,000 broilers/year         130,000             109,000              6
T.TAL                      15.383,000         12,246,000



4.03.01.05-  Installment -aMeuts to -ank Misr:
tIenallments paid  to  Bank  Mfisr for sub-
loans OURdNUNKTh*ough that Bank were as
follows:-
Instal lments
j      S¢hprojnce              Allocations   Balance          +  interestc       Tosal
Withdrawn     in 30/8/1985   not paid            debts
i         -         -.                  E£                      Er             P
Tranol :o. for Cmmerce       1,635,000        1,Q74,000       400,000     1,474,000
14Taml)} en.                   122,000           .               _             _
A,-Vayrouz F.4rm                 9 ,00           _               _             _
Alctlin Fnrm                   121,000          69,947        23,178         93,125
Alex. Cc, for Foods          1,250,000          860,032      256,000      1,116,032
Ali Rida Farm                  720,000          432,000      216,000        648, a0o
Port-Said Co. for ponltry   2,066,000         1,839,000      113,000      1,9549000
Misr Co. for pouLtry           411,000          247,000          _          247,000
862,000         eoto0o            _          870,000
A At1mt.Cn iYJ  Cno.           200,000          161,356        21.:7        L88,*623
Fayoom Food Security Co.    1,574,000           944,400      158,400      1,102.800
ARV Avtid Co.                1,040,000          625,000         _           625.000
Aner.n C. rtr Nosrckinp,     2,118,000        2,117,542                   2,117,542
Whiee telueu-  l.rmn             8,000            8,250         _             8,250
AL .hrco-k ro. for ?nwlttr |  1.09,000           81,900         -            a 81,900
- 41 -



4.03.02- k4ubaseed Co. (NSPC):
As previously mencioned (Paris 2.03 & 3.02 of this report)
a farm of about 23000 fd. of a reclaimed isolated area, was
devoted to a newly established company (Nubaseed Co.), with
an aim of producing improved vegetable seeds that meets at
least 502 of Egypt's needs of seeds for the major vegetable
crops within five years, leading to complete self-sufficiency
in future.
Climatic and soil conditions - as stated in the staff
appraisal report - were considered sutable for vegetable
production in that area as long as water logging and
salinity problems were avoided.
Implementations on the farm at the start of the project
was very slow due to the fact that no adequ4te orientation
was provided to the staff for World Bank pr'cedures for
using credit loans.
The implementation of an internal field drainage network
on the farm which had to be established at the very first of
implementation started only in 1982 and is still at the end
of year 1985 only 95Z complete.
Moreover there was much delay in the establishment of
the Nubariya main drain waterfall, which is implementedbyE2PADP
;Lnd which Codate is unfinished, and thus added further problems,
as drainage water had backed up and resulted in field drainage
insufficiency, and deterioration of land in several areas.
4.03.02.01- Establishments under the Project:
The following establishments were made available
for Nubaseed under this project:-
1- Housing Establishments:
Following houses and establishments were
erected on the farm. Erections took more
than four years, in which period there
- 42 -



were no sufficient accomodation facilities
for the working staff, exports, and
expatriates involved in the implementation
of the project. In that period most of
the managemene personel were staying in
Alexandria, 70 kiloeters far from the
the project area. Local and expatriate
experts also stayed either in Cairo or
Alexandria, and thus spent quitei good
part of the working hours on their way
to and from the Farm:-
(See table on next page).



Housing Facilities
& Other Establishments Erected
By the Project on Nubaseed Farm
No. of          Item             Aim of Erection.
buildings
-       House               For the head of board
of directors.
5       Houses              For members of the
board of directors.
17       Houses              For directors.
21          .                For employees (A).
42          "                For employees (3).
22                           For technicians.
7       Service Stations   For repair and
quick services.
I       Marketing Center)  For the working
I       Social Club            staff.
I       Central Workshop   For tractors and
Farm Machinery.
1       Central Stores      For Storing.
Schools             For the employee's
sons & daughtars.
Hospitals &         For the employees
Clinics              and thier
families.
- 44 -



2-  Drinking Water Facilities:
Three pure drinking water plants with a
capacity of 250-300 m3/hour were established
in 1979. They were very essencial for provid-
ing the working staff and the inhabicants of
the newly established villages with pure
drinking water and for other sanitarv purposes
in this desert area.
3-  Seed Extraction Line:
A new line for seed extraction by crushing the
fruits, washing and drying the seeds mechanica-
lly was established and successfully used for
seed extraction, especially for. watermeLons,
cucumbers, squach and tomatoes.
4-  Seed Cleaning Station for Separation of Seeds:
A new modernstation for cleaning, grading and
separation of seeds was established in 1983
on the farm, with a capacity of i ton/hour
for the fine seedsand 2 tons/hour for other
seeds.
Starting 1985, chis stacion is working
successfully at full capacic7, producing
4800 tons of certified seeds tested by experts
from the seed certification agency.
5-  rnternal Drainage Network:
This subproject was established after the
recomendations of che Consultant Sir 'William
Halcrow to prevent the soils of che :arn
.rom deterioration.
Implementacion starzed  Tlni  in 198'., and
is scill at the end of year 1985 or.l: r5%
complete.
- 45 -



4.03.01.02- Following machinery were produred for the farm
under the project:-
1- A complete line for planting, harvesting andd
grading seed poratoes.
2- Agricultural machinery for the farm including
levelling equipment, and spare parts.
3- Spare parts for Masy Furguson tractors.
4.03.02.03- Fnllowing consultants were employed during
implement.ation:-
1- The British Consultant Engineering Office of
Sir William Halcrow
Contract was signed with this consulting
office fot the irrigation and drainage
studies, They have recommended the
establishment of an internal drainage
network on the NSPC farm, which is still
under erection.
2- U.L.G Consultants limited
For consultation on vegetable seed production.
Mr. Richard Holden from ULG also participated
in preparing specifications for the procurement
of machinery and equipment for the improvement
of seed production on the farm.
Moreover, two studies were prepared and
submitted by the agricultural institute of
Ireland in assosiation with ULG consultants
limitad on "PlasticCropping in Egypt", as a.
direct responseto a request from the Vegetable
Breeding & Research Institute, MOA.
- 46 -



Quarterly reports vere submitted by the
group of consultants, and a final report ih
two volumes for the whole period of conaultaaq
(NIovember 1977 - February 1981) including
recommendation was also submitted.
(Attachment 7 includes a suary of the
Consultants' recomeadations.)
4.03.02.04-  Achiavements to Produce Seed Raeuiremens:
In spitc of the shortcomaigs mentioned in
next paragraph (3.03.02.05), which delayed
implemetation and Caused much trouble and
evisations in the projects' targets, there
are Che following positive trends achieve
by Nubaseed Co. uuder chis project:
(i)   The foundation of a specialized vegetable
seed production and processing auchority
has been laid 4on;
(Li) tiolated areas for producing registered
seeds on che farm were made availabla.
Following are the quantities of registered
areqrmelon and squach seeds producedt
during Cho lase cto years.
Yiaor    Watermelon seeds   Squach goods
i-ons              , n
1984           4.054              0.344
1985           2.519              2.117
-         .. _



In spite of the fact that the target
of producing 50% of the seed requirements of
the country is not yet achieved, Yet for
some kinds of seeds.like watermelon and
muskmelon, the production of certified seeds
by Nubaseed (on dubaseed farms and on other
farms under the full direction and superviciona
Nubaseed) has reached in 1985 more than
100% of the total requirements of the
Country, which resulted in stopping the
importation of watermelon and muskmelon
seeds:
Kind of     Requrements       Certified Seed
certified   of the             Production by
seeds       Country              Nubassed
1983    1984   1985
Tons       Tons    Tons   Tons
Watermelon   180         38.741 76.325 196.355
Muskmelon      45          7.135 11.377  48.229
Moreover it is expected that after the
completion of the establishments of the Main
Fall and the relining of the Nasr Canal,
production of seeds on Nubaseed Farms would
increase by not less than 25%.
(iii) Managerially, the project staff on the
farm has been screngthened as:-
* a full time accountant is now on the
project site, and this has resulted
in better book-keeping;
- 48 -



three director generals aave been appointed
to supervise the seed processizig plants,
irrigation and drainage, and, the agvicultural
sector;
* a seed certification unit to test seed purity
and quality has been set up headed by an
agricultural engineer and three assistants;
* a qualified engiaSner with overseas training
is supervising the seed cleaning plant, one
unit of which separates "dodder" seeds
(a deadly parasice) from "bersee seeds and
is the ouly unit found for this purpose in
Egypt';
* a number of staff, has been trained in the
field of production and processing of seeds;
* scudy tours and training cources were provided
to & wumber of scaff (See Attachment 6 )
(iv)  a number of specialized machinery have been
provided to the farm;
(v)    on the'buman side, a comunity of over 5,000
people has been settled in the fringe of the
desert with provision of pure water, electri-
city, schools and headltb clinic, which cannot
be tacken lightly in a country such as Egypt,
overcrowded by urban comunities and farm
labour migrucing to cities and to Arab
Countries;
(vi)   vegecable seeds which are now produceed an che
farm, are neatly packad in one-icilogram cans
marked ji:h Uubasead emblem.
(vii)  there has been improvement of the markccing
operation which is now car:ied ouc direc:1y
by the Nubaseed Company. Furthermore chere
's better cara of machinery and seed extrac-
cion aquipmant and oi bec:ar seed scarage
arrangemencs;
.9 _



(viii) at PCR tima,field  dra=S Ur ComplCee@  IS YU
of the project area, and construction of the
village dwellings La now IO. completed;
(ix)   after the completion of the main drainage outfall
(Not yet completed), it is expected that the
water table in the project ara would get down,
and as a result of that land conditions would
be improved, which will lead to better production;
(x)    vegetable research, which is financed by Nuba-
seed and supervised by the MOA's Vegetable
Research Institute, is progressing satisfactorily.
Peas, broadbeans, cabbage and tomato verieties
are being developed and tested with promising
results. Also nucleus seeds of broadbeans,
cabbage and tomatoes are being produced for
further multiplication.
4.03.02,06-  Nesative Trends:
(i)    high technical inputs were badly needed for
vegetable seed production in that geographically
isolated sandy farm. Budgets were not always
sufficient to cover this target, especially at
the beginning of iaplmentation;
(ii)   appropriate qualified staff needed were not
always available becausa of the lack of
incencives to encourage them to remain on
this desert isolated area, Intensive
orientacion should have been provided to the
staff at the start of the project to get them
aquanted with the project's targecs and with
procedures for withdrawals from World Bank
credit loans;
(iii) due to the delays in building housing for the
vorking staff, visiting experts and expatriates
and in the erection of infrastructre, most of the
management personel at the start of the project
were staying in Alexandria, 70 kiloamiters far
from the project;
(iv)   the high rate of interest (102) on all investment
financed from the loan proceeds including the
infrastructure made the company unable to repay
instalements, and resulted at the end in stoppin,
to withdraw from the loan proceeds.
- 50 -



(Only US s 8.3 Miiiiov Vera withdgm fro CtM
US $ 14 million wich wver allocated  rm  the
Ptoject co VSC);
All investiena a  i.rature nd cavil
servies (Scoola, Clinics, Club, housing..ece)
should have been born by the Goveret.
(vJ    abenace of a empetenc irrigacion specialisc
wutb ad.quace kowlege on crop-intor require-
ames with experience in cr"as sWlat to that
foun on the project;
(vi)   poor soil, Po" scruccure, lack of organicS
matter or sail conditioners an  abusw     s of
waeds nd nacodes all aded to low yiolda,
oSpqciaily whe tacmical inpuca to minALai
chses  shorcccmtigs wre noc availabloe
NUi)  alcho4s, field drains have bees italld in
about 952 of tbe project area, saw of those
drains ar  alray  out of opar"ipu. Too much
water is used to irrigate the fields due to
unlwel fields and further misucgillation of
irriWgon wacer by farers who  cca"isaly ll
cest ares from the projccc.  furthermore the
opan drais are nt wvrkisag e Lffcintly sLne          
the bia lVubariya Drain is not yoc finished
which ha  caused back-up of drainage vater,                 -
making lacmral draining calts inetficienc.
(viii) lictle actaecion have been given ca the Lu 
levelling op.rttijons, in spice gf Che (ccC ctiac
che projecc had t i4CS Jaspew1 SOpiiNig"Ld
ln  levelling equipmut (laser operatd) 
whle no qualified ctchMiQiLas have been
recruited to operatd chem;
(ix)   nocold scrage tor suot pc;acows have boon
provided, and cltere hwvs besa lack of
tachnicians co wia pocaco plaaears and
haeasters aore efficiently, and further-
more, a ministcarial decisionwas taakn in
en stop cthe goaduction  of Clh  Zjias.rLus'
-51-d



seed potatoes on the farz  compltOly, vbich hws
one of the main targets of the prlct, as seed
potato production iD the Nubariya area proved to
be very poor and costly, furthaliore a great
percentsge of the crop dave very  mall size
seeds which were not desired by farmrs.
Following table shows areas planted for
producing seed potatoes on NSIC farms from 1978
through 1983/84 and the crop produced. This
table shows clearly that the average production
of seed potatoes was less than third the average
of the national level production:
Year       Planted  Total Yield  Average Yield
Planted          ~pe rFed.
Fed        Tons           Tons
1979         231       831.6           3.600
1980         475      1524.0           3.435
1981/82      611      2256.0           3.200
1982/83      920       1241.0          1.340
1983/84      165      295.0            1.790
Consequently, instead of reducing the depend
once ba importation of seed-potatoes as was
expected (in the staff appraisal report), annual
requirements imported by GPC & UPEHC of seed-
potatoes increased year after year to reacb 51
thousand tons in 1985 (See Attachment 2 );
(x)    a more adequate workshop with more experienced
staff was needed to repair and maintain the
sophisticated and specialized machinery provided
by the project;
(xi)   inadequate arrangements for tomato saed process-
ing without getting benifit of the tomato juice
to minimize seed prices (as each kilogram of
tomatoes yialds only 39 grams of seeds) led to
very lot level of seed production and income,
which was an important reason for miniting the
production of tomato seeds on the farm;
- 52 -



(xii)  there abould hae been a prarAtion period Of
2-3 years before  plIesngatton for tce comple-
cion of infrastructura and appropriate cnvil
works and to train tcs staff nee"d for work in
full capacity frm  tie very beginnin  of
ispl"OntatLon'
(xiLL)  Filly Lc should be stated chat at the start of
the project, it ws not an "sy gob for this
newly established company 1s an isolated are
in the deart sader ite meere problems of
salinity and unloved soil in my areas, vith-
ouc any infrestruccure or adequate building
facilitios (htuses- schools - cl incS - fresh-
wocer a electricity) to  o   the staff stay all
the tia on thbe pojoct arwa.  Moreover som
very imporant copoats were out of the control
of the cany such as the erections of the mai
oucfall drain and the lining and repairing of
Che vasr Canal, are still at cb ena of
985 incmple,  nd thes on  of the ain
factors for the dtcrioration of seed production
on tm  fam (drainage) is still todab cousin$
a problm for reaching the aim of pr4ducing 50
of the C woury's needs of certifi 'd seeds.
NevercbAles  the Compay have reaced the
prodution of Moro thn 1002 of the Macion's
needs frm some kid  of "sds in 1985 (Wacer-
Malon  muskmelon) as menioned in para
(3.02.01.04-i ).
4.03.02.07-  Wit!Arawals from Loa  for EgabliLtaecs. farm
~acinev £CaosultAmts:
(a)  Local expenicures on the Ea2  till June 30,1985
4xufuted co  t 6,102,475.
(b)  Amonts allocaead from che proceeds of che loan
for escablishmacs, fa&  machinery  nd cousulcancs
were US $ 13,958,000. Suc expeaditureas as shown
on che f1iawing table were only US S 8,29l,982.65.
(c) Abouc US $ 5.1 mllion of cho allocations not spenc
by NSPC for reasois menCionad before were ro-allocated
to £PADP.
-.53 -



Withdrawals
Fris-m Lo.ani 1:!1hf1('G  ftur Establisl owWlts,
:.wrnr. M-.whimi'ry   C (onsultants  by  NSPlC.
Ex2endSiturgs
I I tn11                        Comtmitmengt nare         Withdrawn
From the  Loan   Local Curre£     c
us  $            EL
I -  lIuuosi i s' I.it;allaIi shnivlmtzs       6/4/1L979              7'32 ,4()7.1 1bI,600,699
2-  Iluiikiug} Wo. t vi' Ftlilmt.umt          19/2/1979                368 ,h9b .50     114,629
3-  Setzz l'.: I .ct. i; iI.im.               20/1/1979             1 438,220. m)        84,380
4-  Svvd Ciu.aiiaii, Sl.tl ito                 3/6/1981             1,456,502.03        567,119
5-  Interina1 lortaime:1p  N:Lwirk             l/2/1982             1,155,877.1h   3,279,382
6-  Sp.&re P;arts l.r Masy Furguslul.i        20/9/1981                116,810.54 _
Tractors
7-  Potato Plantiing 6 lIarvesting
Line                                     20/2/1981                484,042.96       280,889
8-  Furm K.tichillt wy                        20/6/1978             1,204,799.84           -
9-  Othetr F.arm.M; M lain..ry                20/1/1981                3)7,232.63
10-  Lrrig;tiun & iJrai:nu             -
I Cunsul  L.a1t.                        6/12/1976        .       200,101.96        33,961
(Sir Wi II ialI; l$ t.a i1w)
i1-  ULC CuaulL I Ltsa s                      18/8/ 1977                769,259.9o       133,616
12-  Rti.dl.zrd  llieldt.i  (:commulLatc)    10/3/ 1981                 27,7b7.00         8,000
8,291,982.65   6,102,475 *
* F.x)efldiLUtras till Jusie 30,1985.
(MIl)  Still snme establishments are at PCR time under constructiun.
- 54 -



4.03.03-  Union of Producers   Exporcers of Horticultural-Crops (UPEEC):
- -  .*    .     n   .-.... 
4.03.03.01-  The project allocated US $ 702,000 CoT UPEr
as subloan frao Bank Misr at an interest rate
of 10, for sstablishing vegetable grading and
packing stacions, cold stores and tsanspost
facilities, but due to the high interest rate
of chat subloan, the Union has only used
US $ 466,930 of that amount for:
(i)  the construction of a 500 tons capacity
mulci-purpose cold sttoe and fraeeer
(-20 C), in Ibis, Alexandria which was
ready starting May 1981 for storing:-
* Fruit seedlings, strawberry seedlings,
Ornamental plants and bulbs imported
for the Union's members.
*  Apples,pars, and bana  fruits.
(ii) four Scania trucks of 10 cons weight for
transportation facilities.
4.03.03.02-  Following are the earnings of the cold store:-
Fiscal                Expenses         Revenues
yer        (including consumpciou7M) I
EL      1~~~E
80/81                  1,152             7,037
81/82                 4a,891           72,952
82/83                 47,302           26,964
83/84                 38,l17           16,500
8485                 60,000            36,000
N.3-  Revenues in 82183 & 83/84were low due to
chd fact t a.'t quantities of poultry scored
for some members proved to be rot:on, and
thus burnt by law, and consequently che cold
store was forced- to be closad.
- 55 -



4.03.03.03-  Local and foreign expenditures were as follows:-
Item         Local               Foreigtn from
Ii         t7Loan  froin  From UPF.tIC's     the
Bank Misr  budget          pro4ect loan
_E         EE               US $
Cold store   89,177      494,902           380,930
Trucks          -          25,198           86,000
Total       89,177      520,100           466,930
E 609,277              $ 466,930
N.B- All foreign and local loans 4 the interest
rates were re-paid to Bank Misr in 1983.
- 56 -



4.03.04-  Potaco  Crowers CooC erative (      :
4.03.04.01-  US $ 5,727,404 were allocated to this cooperativY...
as a subloan froa Bank Misr at an interest rate of
10t  for establishing culd stores.
GnC has allocated another El 1,001,775 Erom
its own bu4get for the same purpose.
4.03.04.02-  Following cold stores have been erected during the
period Sep. 1979 - Sep. 1981:-
* One cold score at Sabahia wich a cpac"ity of
1000 tons freezing and 5000 tons cold storing.
*  One cold store at Danhoor wi.h a capacity
of 6000 cons cold storiag.
4.03.04.03-  Boch cold stores were used for:  potacoes-
pears, cheese, eggs and (meet & poultry iL
the freezing section)
4.03 04.04-  Following are the eariugs of the cold scoras:-
(A) Sabahia Cold-store
Expenses
Fiscal      (including 15%          1evenues
year      conslmpcion race)
3812           a5,354                71,411
IL8 3         397, 731              270, 252
33/84|        3400,4'67             441,084
84/85         373,300               451,7Zo
5 57 -



(3) Damanhoor Cold-store
Expenses
Fiscal     (including 152           Revenues
year      consumpcion rate)
EL                   EL
81/82          372,442             234,142
82/83          *329,682             160,530
83/84          273,004             231,0OL
84/85          297,916             224,583
4.03.04.05-  Local and foeign expenditures were as follows:-
*  Local  : El 1,001,775 from ?PC budget
*  Foreign:  US $ 5,727,464 from Bank Miar
equals E£    4.8         as a
subloan from the Credit, about
EE      3.5      of which was
re-paid to Bank Mi8r and the
balance is EL 2,246,423.
N.B:   Expenditures are higher than revenuas because of
adding 15% consumption rate which is high.
- 58 -



4.03.05- El-Wadi-& The NUleiftgort Companies:
4.03.05.O-._Bank:Misr was prepared to allocate US $ 5,468,0a0
for El-Wadi Export Co. and US $ 492,000 for the
Nile Export Co. as subloans at an interest rate
of 102, from the proceeds of che project, to be
used for establisbing vegetable grading and
packing scations, cold stores and transport
facilities.
4.03.05.02-  But both companies have found that the interest
rats is very high for chem, and chus were not
interested in using the credit accounts for
the  estabilshmt of grading or packing scations
as longas they could have loans from PBDAC
- for same purposesaz a lower race (62).
4.03.05.03-  The Nile Cmpany only used a subloan of US $
26000 from the Credit for financing a study
for Marketing Groundnucs in appropriate
packages, which wes repaid with its interests
to Bank  iasr in tim.
. 59 -



4.03.06- EPADP: The Constcr.ction of the Nubariva Main Drain:-
4.03.06.01- Introduction:
*  The Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects undertook the responsibility of
works concerning research, design, biddings,
supervisionand execution of this drain.
* The British Consultant Engineering office of
Sir William Halcrow undertook to prepare the
study of alignment and design and to prepare
the contracts for executing the Drain from
bm 0.00 to km 67.00 interalia the study of
relining El Nasr Main Canal.
*  The Egyptian Hydraulic and Silting Institute
and the British Hydraulic Research Institute
and the Shore Protection for Research & Study
Institute participated in designing the outlet
of the Drain on the Medit Sea.
* The start up has been schedufed to be the
data of commencementof the lit stage of
the Drain on July 15,1975 versus the actual
date of commencement which was Dec. 31,1975.
* The execution of the Main Drain, has been
devided into 6 stages,for each of which a
seperate bidding8has been prepared and
awarded in addition to other works as
follows:-
-  Stage 1: From km  0.060 to km  2.300
-  Stage 2: From km  2.300 to km  3.500
-  Stage 3: From km  3.800 to km  7.800
-  Stage 4: From km  7.800 to km 29.200
-  Stage 5: From km 29.200 to km 42.500
-  Stage 6: From km 41.500 to km 70.000
- 60 -



- High Wav Bridge at km 7.800
-  2 Rail,a  Bridges at km 24.000 and
at km 26.700
Tahrir Canal SZRhon under the Main Drain
at km 45.470
Nahda Drain SZ2ho=  under the Main Drain
at km 29.170
Main Drain S    n   under the Mechanised
Canal
4.03.06.02- Start up:
* The procedure of tnternational Competitive
Siddings were followed to award the projecc's
contracts. The local contractors won all the
bids due to the fact chat their prices were
the lowest. The contrac:s were prepared as
follows:
3  Stage 1: Includes the earth works frm.
km 0.060 to km 2.300 and the Construction
of the High way Bridge (Alex.- Matruh).              _
Stage 2: Includes-the earth works from
km 2.300 to km 3.800 which crosses hilly
lands of lime stone texture with %eight
15.0 mr. excavation.
-Stage 3: Includes Pe earth works '.om
lm 3.800 to km '.SCO passing through
lakes and depression ('ax Salina) The
cross secticq is Uill wi:h selected and
transported soil and includes:
a- Construction tf 3 svphone for 'Snx Walinn.
b- Construction of external irocec:ion 'or
berms against the  *;:mn;tsr  rom  r Lf I Le
depressions.
_ 61 _



c- Construction of internal protect    for
side slopes against the rain washing and
the erosion of the war fluccuation and
the force of waves.
d- Construction of the High way Bridge at
km 7.800
Stage 4: Includes the earth works from
km 7.800 to km 29.200 passing through
Max Salina and Maryut Lake. Because
this stage encounters a high terrace of
40 mtr higher than the natural ground
level, its relevant bid included two
alternatives: one crossing the terrace
by a tunnel and the other passing around
the terrace in open channel as a loop.
The second alternative has been found to
be the economic solution and was accepted,
saving about L.E 6.00 mill.
The works also include:-
a- Construction of 2 High way bridges at
km 16.500 and at km 21.400.
b- Construction of 2 Raiway bridges at
km 24.000 and at km 26.600 .
c- Spillway km 10.00 on Nubariya Main
Canal.
d- Spillway km 28.700 on West Nubariya Main
Drain.
8- Amiriya Minor Drain's Syphon.
f- Removing a lot of obstructions as
building and 5 irrigation pipe lines.
Stage 5: Includes the earth works from
km 29.200 to km 41.500 crossing a
region of hard scone texture of length
3.500 km and also includes:-
62 -



a- Construction of 3 bridges at km 29.870,
km 34.770 and 40.170.
b- Two outlets  for sahary Drain at Thawra
Drain.
c- Syphon of the Huin Drain at km 33.370
under Maryout Canal.
d- Syphoa of Maryobolise canal under the
Main Drain at km 37.070.
- Stape 6: tacludesthe earth works Crota
kam 41.500 to the end at km 69.170 4ntd
includes:-
a- 4 Bridges at km 45.470, 48,270, 53,470
55,070,  6.3,970,   and 65.020.
b- 3 syphous of the Main Drain at km 50,70,
km 50.470 and km 64,970 under thawsa
Canal and Horreya Canal and the
Mechanism Canal respectively.
c- I Tahreer Canal syphon under the Main
Drain at km 47,470.
d- 2 outfall structures, of El-poor Drain
and 3l1-asr Drain at km 56,390 and
km 65,970 respectively.
e- Some obestructions such as Muvicipat
water pipe lines and building construc-
tion and pumping stations buiLdings.
* Same of hese menciioned wor!ks were issued
seperately outside the main contract because
they have beens needed after awnrding the
original contracts.
- 63 -



4.;)3.06.03- Significant changes in the project design:
* Some bridges which were designed at the begining
as reinforced concrete slabs on precast
reinforced concrete piles were changed to
reinforced concrete boxculverts on raft
foundation due to the soil texture and for
the economic point of view.
* The outlet structure on the Mediterranian Sea,
which was designed at the beginning as
standing wave wier by the consultant
Engineering office of Sir William Halcrow,
the Egyptian Hydraulic silting institute
and the British Hydraulic Research
Institute was redesigned again by the
Shore Protection Research & Study
Institute to conclude contraction in
the Drain's bed and making a dyke in
the sea using gravity concrete blocks
and granite blocks to protect the
structure against the adverse effect
of the waves and the silting of
movable sand,. which has been already
executed.
* Some new works were added to the main
works such as the protection of
*               internal and external reach of the
Main Drain from km 3.800 to km 7.800
and also 2 High way bridges, 3 foot
bridges, and 2 railw3y bridges. New
works also included:-
1-5 Syphons for canals under the Main
Drain,
2- 1 Syphon for tk2 Main Drain and
miscellaneous.
- 64-



* The tunnel of the Main Drain crossing the high
terrace as alternative versus the open channel
passing around the terrace as a loop, has been
regected and the open channel as an alternative
was prefered due to the economic point of view.
* Following works have been added to the project
alter the date of commencement:-
1- Righ way bridges at km. 0.200 and km 1.033 on
the Main Drain.
2- External protection to the Main Drain from
km. 3.300 to km 7.800.
3- Internal protection to the Main Drain from
km 3.300 to km 7.800.
4- Foot bridges at km 17.500, 45.470 a 53.470.
5- Two bridges on 6 El Msr major drain.
6- Railway bridges at km 24.000 a km 26.700.
7- By-pass channel to feed Syphon at km 6.100.
8- Four syphous under the Main Drain at km 4.100,
lkm 6-.100, k= 6.900 & km 47.470.
9- Syphon for the Main Drain under Horrnya Cannal.
1O0P Syphon for Nahda Major Drain.
* The eompletion of the mentioned project was
scheduled co be on March 31,83 depending on
the completion of choi 4E stage which concrots
the project, but due to some reasons behind
the efforts of £PADP this stage has '. -een  et
cmpleted and its status Ls now "at PCR ctie)
as follows:-
-  Earth works:  Compleced.
- The vailwa1r bridze ac km 2~&.00 and thte . hi:..
wa7 brid%es at m L7..OO. 1l.i00. 21.ZIOf *
56.300:  Soc let finished is:
- 63 -



1- The railway bridge is being executed by
the Egyptian Railway Authority which took
the responsibility of design and excution
on the account of EPADP and not yet
completed.
2- The highway bridges needed permission from
the Egyption Roads and Bridges Authority
to be executed, which took long time, and
to cut the hsighway-roods a lot of obstruc-
tions encountred the excusion of the Main
Drain and delayed execution such as
Municipal water pipe lines, High tension
lines, many buildings owened to.companies.
3- A Zone.in the Main Drain was prohibilted
to work in without getting a permission
from Higher Authorties which also took
long time to receive.
*    EPADP Staff through its engineers
redesigned some highway bridges and
changed their type from slab on precasc
reinforced concrete piles to a reinforced
concrete box-section and also added the
protection works to the Main Drain internal
and external, where the embankments are in
deep fill of a distance about 4.500 km to
protect the sides of the Main Drain from
erosion from the washing of the rainfall
and also to control the seapage from or to
the Main Drain and the adjacent low ground
area. Also some new syphons, aqueducts,
foot bridges and road bridges have
been introduced in the Main Drain design
and execution.
* Up to December 31, 1985 about 99% of the total
works have been completed.
- 66 -



The most critical *ctivicties cctumplislbed
are:-
The outlet stTUCture                 1: compltetl
Stage 4                             1t00  compLuted
Sxcavation of the main drain )1002 copletud
from km 48.800 to km 49.970)
Mechanism Canal Syphon               122 completed
4.03.06.04-  Pvocurments
* TM  pOtCur?et of materials, Equipmonc, machines
nd spare parts have been financed frOM Lwo
(a) Eptian currency allocaced by cite Government
for procuremencs purchased tocally.
(b) ?oreiSg  currency provided from the project
loan for the procurementsp.,rchasled frn frqigin
coutries with foreign currency.
* There was no schedule for prceuremnct oC
materials, equipment or machines during th u
preparation of the project study.  The
procureents were performed  lecordins: to the            ,
actual needs during the exccucing 01 twh  prtjoct
by the companies.  lenc  there w.s %:onsiLdur;ble
delaymucs in the procurt'ment process.$
* The totaL aivil wr!ks vibmit;ikd m:it *t, .watr ",
the ftin Drain havo been uxueuti.'d hy mufing 0.11.4
Resisting Sulphate Co-enc. 9un,.tnt.'imn  ;ii&  Iittt
of caent was not availahle in c(1t* iv.:al taW!cAL
CensinS  delawent in Projujct CUflphtion.
* The total quantity of cquipmuent, i.n-swdte:. sparv
parts and macerialspe5ru!iaawl for .:xeCuLion  l.i
civil work of the Main Drain for earth workcs a:nd
the related strtsctures vWiLh  ltheir  ai.'t. .ir. ;z:;
follows:-
- 67 -



Total price
Item       Description       Quantity  Equiv. $1.00
1   Different types of
Buldozers                  10      1,739,064
2   Different types of
Loaders                     5        231,765
3   Different types of
Dump Truck                  22     1,246,704
4   Different types of
Tractor Scrapers             5       713,635
5   Different types of
Dragline excavators          7       919,810
6   Different types of
Hydraulic                    6       921,937
7   Ratary Compressor           10        135,903
8   Disel Generating Sect        1         81,246
9   Analysis Laboratory          1         13,198
10   Propelled Dum Vibrating
Compactor                    4       175,040
11   Construction Equipments   lot        211,994
12   Concrete pump with
axessories  pipes            2       108,487
13   Transmit concrete mixer    3           95,501
14   Steel Scaffalding for
bridges                     lot      135,000
15   Super Shavel                 3       218,556
16   Motor Grader                 2        83,412
17   Lorry Chesis                10       825,000
18   Concrete mixer plant         1         61,062
19   Consultancy (Sir William
Halerow)                             175,628
U.S. $ 8,092,942
* According to the Staff Report and the loan
agreement, it has been reported that the
World Bank would finance the local expend-
itures of the civil works up to 352, but
when EPADP submitted some applications to
reimburse the disbursments of local
expendituresof civil works, they were not
accepted by the World Bank.
- 68 -



* Lastly the WorldBank approved to finance the
purchace of equipmet aid machines for maintenance
processes of the Main Drain by an undisbursed
amount from Che loan of about U.S $ 7,657,633.
Thi' amount would sake the total disbuised amont
to reach about U.S. $ 16.million.
* The mainenance process of Nubariya 4Xin Drain
did not start yet, because the drain is still
uner eecution and has noc been cmpleted yet.
To sec the optimum use of tho loan, the World
8ank approved to finance the purchse of
equipmencn, machines and spare parts from the
proceeds of the loan to be ready for
the maintenance processes of Nubariya Hain
Drai  and all the branched drain  which serve
the West Nubariya area. The costs of equipment
purchased for this purpose amounted to $ 7.658
million as follows:-
Ices  Di!ion                      Unit   Eguiv. $
I    Portable sucCion dredger    3      '.,009,967
2    11itachi AlS  USTV
Amphibious                   1       358,328
3    Fully Hydraulic axcavator  50      2,267,771
4    Crawher Dragline            42     4,021,567
Tocal U.S S                     7,657,633
The mencioned equipmenc and machines will anable
fl.O.I chrough !PADP to aaincain the Hai  Drain
and che branches co improve cheir condicions
including theix clea;ing, lweed conc.ol and
desilting processes.
4.03.06.05- RecOrCing:
Periodical fol1ow up reports -were prepared
monthly by ZPADP, which is undertaking the
responsinilicy of the execution and supervision
of the Drain. Moreover the impleaencacion of
- 69 -



this subproject was always, under the follow-up
of the World Bank missions who visited the project
periodically to collect the required data and to
make sure that the execution is going on as planned.
4.03.06.06- Costs:
* According to the Staff Project Report of the
World Bank on May 12,1976, the estimated costs
for driinage and irrigation works were as
follows:-
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
- L.E   000     -            $     000    -
16,001  8,616   24,617   27,121  14,603  41,724
(based on the parallel market rate for
foreign exchange of U.S. $ o L.E 0.59
during the preparation period of the
reporz).
* The allocated amount from the loan for civil
works, engineering works, equipment & vehicles
for Drainage and relining of the El-Nasr Main
Canal compement was reported in the loan agree-
ment as U.S $ 13.250 mill, due 1002 of foreign
expenditures and 702 of local expenditures.
* The World Bank agreedto allocate another U.S$2.30
million from the loan for the Drainage Compement
to construct a proposed tunnel which had to be
introduced in the Main Drain where crossing high
terrace of about 40 mr higher than the ground
level.
So the total allocations for the mentioned
subprojects amounted.to U.S. $ 15.550 million.
* Thus there were remarkable differences between
the estimated costs reported in the Staff Report
and the actual costs, either in local or foreign
currency as follows:-
- 70 -



A- Concerning the local currency (contribution
of the Government), the actual costs became
more than the estimated and reached about
L.Z 36.564 million due to:-
- A great deal of works were added to the
reported works such as Highway bridges,
Railway bridges, Syphot  aind the Internal,
ESternal protection for the Main Drain
where crossing depressions such as lakes and
salinas.
- The escalation in prices of goods, materials,
wages, salacies .....,etc.
B- Concerning the foreign currency (Contribution
of the World Bank), the actual cost weredifLEerunt
than the estimated, and reached about U.S ;
6 million due to:
- The tunnel of the Main Drain crossing the
high terrace as an alternative versus the
open channel passing around the terrace as
a loop, has been regected.and the open
channil alternative was prefered due to the
economic point of view.
- The procurement of equipment and machines
for fucure maintenanze processes of the
main drain at US S 7,657;,633 as agreed
with the Wortd 3ank, plus the procurements
for the erection of the '.ain Irain which
amounted to-IJS 3 3.092,94 '.
* Thus, actutal costs for the drainagc civmoctlent .mo'rntod
to:"       3 Li.
Local  : SE 36.064  - US S  61.973
.***..    US S  16,1"00
&otal    5S S  , 7.?73  About US S :niI Uion 7,
x based on the parallel   market rate of U.S 3
£E 0.59 during the preparation period of thc
project.
_   .



4.03.06.07- Perforiance of Consultants, Contr4ctors &
Suppliers:
* Ministry of Irrigatiin (MOI) contracted the
English Consulting Engineering Office of Sir.
William Halerow to undertake the respensibility
of designing the alignment of Nubariya Main
Drain including the longtudinal profile, cross
sections and the related structures.  These
works were achieved after the research study
concerning the geological and topographic
studies. The same consulting office was also
contracted to prepare the Bill of Quantities,
the specifications and the general conclutions
includiag the preparation of tender documents
which were based on the international competi-
tive system for execution of projects. A
separace contract was issued for each of the
6 stages with the drawings required for each
tender.
* The British Hydraulic Institute and the Hydraulic
and Silting Institute in Egypt contributed in the
first design of the outlet strucure in the Medic
Sea, but finally the Shore Protection Institute
in Egypt complated the overall design of this
ouclet.
* The Egyptian Railway Authority under-took the
respensobility of design and execution of
the railway bridges on the Main Drain on the
account of EPADP.
* EPADP Staff of Egyptian engineers redesigned
some highway bridges and changed their types
from slab on precast reinforced concrete piles
to a reinforced concrete box-section and also
added the protection works to the Main Drain
(internal and external), as mentioned before.
- 72 -



4.03.07-  ministry of       a
Introduction:
Tn order to achieve irrigation improveamts  in the NSPC ara,
a package of rehabilitation and ccmplecion works had to be
undertaken under the project to reduce wacer losses from the
Sasr Canal.
Itach collapses of the lininings in the distance becwen
the two scacions: No. 1 and No. 2 on that Canal led to the
fact that the actual section of the canal along this discance
becam insufficient to the designed discharge needed for the
area irrigated on the Canal, which is nearly (340,000 faddans).
Preparation of the Suboroject:
Cmprehensive studies have been undertaken by the General
Departement for Horizontal Expasion,(MOI) in Damanhoor
Governorate with the participation of the Consultng
Engineering Office of Hauza-Sabour, aiming ac geting full
benific from discharg of station Na. l, which is (113 a 3/See).
Du to the concinious flow of water in the canal and the
high prices for repairing and lining that part of the canal
in cha presence of water exiscance, ;he studies considered
that the Nasr Canal ac the present cim  as an uniind canal
could only pass a discharge of (45 m3/sec), and ehus another
lined canal oarallel eo the Naar Canal, which could pass a
discharge of (70 ai3/see) and take from down stream pump
No. 1 and  pours up  -atr:am  pump  scacion No. 2 wi:h langth
of 9 km. would be che best soulzion for reaching the discharge
of UL5 3/sec (45 m3/Ise + 70 m3 sec).
Scudids cook very long time, and thus izplementatiou
s;arted only on December 15,1985, af:er che importation of
machines and equipment needed for _l-Behei.a Limited Co. vdhich
took cho responsibilicy of the execution.
Description of :he Sub-=roiect:
*  C.nstr.c:4'ons Included cne following works:-
1- Construccicu and lining the parallel canal with length
of 9 km.
- 73 -



2- Construction of the canals and draiss to replace the
existing ones interfeering with ths parallel canal.
* Structural Works:.
1- Conscruction of a head regulaccr on the Main El-Nasr
Canal at Km. 2,400.
2-  Construction of two bridges on the existing asphalt road
of El Nasr Canal at the entrance and the end of the Canal
parallel to El Nasr Canal.
3-  Construction of tvo bridges on zhe canal parallel to
El Nasr Canal.
4- Coustruction of two aquiducts on the Canal psrallel to
El Nasr Canal.
5- Construction of the intake of branch/l right.
6- Erection of the necessary protection to the tail of the
canal parallel to El Nasr Canal with steel sheet piles.
*  The roblems which objected the project_t the begining of
execution:-
1- There were high pressure electric cables 11 K.V*66 K.V.
hidden inside expropriate parallel canal to El-Nasr
Canal, intersectibg   with the parallel Canal.
2- There were water pipe lines intersecting on the parallel
canal to El Nasr Canal in the situations of some
structural works.
3- Construction of El Tayareya El Amareya rail..way bridge
interescting with the parallel canal at Km. 3,900.
4- The Underground waster level in the distance from
Km. 4 - to Km 9  of the parallel canal was high.
- 74 -



Atchiavements Till End of December,1985:
1. Excavations of the parallel canal all over its length have
started: Progress achieved * 500,000 a3.
2. Earth works to form the fase of lining: Prbgress achieved *
25,000 0 3
3- Following structural works have been completed:
(a) Constructions and linings of the substitude Heska
concerning NSPC fam and its structural works.
(b) Construction of the substitute Meska concerning FL-Kcrottm
farm.
(c) Excavations of the substitude drain couceraing El-Karoum
farm.
(d) Execution of ths head regulator on El Nasr Canal at
Km 2,400.
(e) Execution of the bridge ac Km 1,670 on the parallel
canal.
(f) Execution of the intake of branch/I righc..
4- Execution of intake bridge & bridge at Ku 5,410 on the
parallel caual started and is still under execution.
5- The equiducts at ft. 4,410 and gm. 5,410 on che paralled
canal are still under execution.
6- 55,000 m3 of the excavations on thedrain for of dowaterirg
the underground water under tQe conditions of the contract
lave been achieved.
7- 7ull completion of inplemencazion of :hat suboroect is
expected to be before end of June,1.86.
Value of the executced works and agr-iers  iU1. end of
December,l985 is 1..76,000 L.E.
- 75 -



Procurements:
Following equipment and materials we;,e imported for the
Beheira Limited Co. for the execution of this snbproject:-
'Serial|    Equipment  &  Materials   Npurbhased   Value (FOB)
Equivalent $
1     Motor - Scrapers self-bearing       5         945,000
2     Industrial textile                             46,596
3     Hydraulic diggers                  10         446,728
4     Concrete central mixers             2         193,378
5     Care materials forword-
backward                                  258,205
6     Cure materials - adhesive
material                                   35,563
7     Plastic Bandages                                3,525
TOTAL                              1,928,995 $
Costs:
Costs of this subproject amounted to:-
1- US $ 1,928,995 from the loan proceeds for the importation
of the Equipment and materials as mentioned
before.
2-  EL   6,125,000 from the budget of M01 for the construction
(cevil works), EE 1,176,000 of which have
been spent till end of December,1985.
- 76 -



4.03.08-  The Vegetable Bre:di-g & Research Inatitut  (MOA)
4.03.08.01- Introduction:-
* The project aimed at expanding and equipping the
Vegetable Breeding Unit & Research Institute,
which is a branch of the Agricultural Research
Center, MOA; for strengthening research and
vegetable seed breeding for the benifit of
vegetable producers throughouc the country.
* US $ 250,000 were allocated from the loan proceeds
for equipment, vehicles, spareparts and constilt-
sats' services needed for fulfillient of this
purpose.
Another US $ 53,000 were allocated for the Soed
Certification Department, MA, to carry out its
fruit and vegetable seed certification functions,
but as this departement, during the implementation
period of the project, did not use those alloca-
tious, allocations were cransfered to theVegetable
Breading & Research Institute.
T.iiw total allocations from the proceeds of
the project at the start of Implimentation were
US $ 303,000.
4.03.08.02- Star: U2:-
As a direct rasponse to a request from the 'egetabl.e
Breading & Research rnstitute, two studies were
prepared and submi:ted by the Agricul:tural insci:uce
of Ireland in association with ULG consultants
limited, who were contracted by 'JSPC, on the
?lastic Cropping in EGYrT ", in the parind
November 1977 - February 1981. (See Attachnmert
"To .  7  )-
BEST. COPY AVAUILE
,,



4.03.08.03-  Achievements durig i       mentations
* 42 Plastic green 'houses were established on the
Vegetable Research Statiou farm in Kaha, about
30 kilometers north of Cairo, 14 of which are
provided by heaters for beating and by both
irrigation systems: drip and mist irrigation,
with their appropriate equipment.
Two of the green houses are double-span
houses and the rest are single.
Average yields per feddan under the said
green houses were as follows:-
Average Yield
all over  Under the
Crops      the    green houses         Remarks
|________ country   (in Kaha)           _
Tons/Fed  Tons/Fed
Cucumber    6-7      40 - 45       )Yields in winte
Pepper      6-7      24 - 28           the open aiz
) is mch lower
Tomatoes     12      60 - 70       )than in summer,
)but under greet
)houses there at
)no much fluctul
)tions.
Cantalope   6-8         27        No hope of prodL
ing cantalope it
-       -     open air in wint
NB: 1) All seeds used under the plastic green
houses were firs: seed generation.
2) Crops were grown and yields obtained off-
season especially in winter when prices
on themarkets are much higher than prices
during season. Moveover, in case of some
crops like cantalope there is no hope of
producing it in the open air in winter.
- 78 -



* As a result of the high yields and the remarkable
results abtained in Kaha Research Station under
the plastic sreen houses, as mentioned above,
the Ministry of Agricul*ture is now undertaking
the responsibility of establishing an extensive
national project for the establishment of plastic
green houses equipped with drip irrigation for
vegetable production on large scale during the
period 1985/86 - 1989/90 which implies the
establishment of 100,OOO plastic grees houses on
newly reclaimed lands, with the aim of increas-
ing vegetable proauction in Egypt, which in turn
would increase the posibilities for vegetable
exportatiol in the very near future especially
for tomatoes, canealopes, beans, pepper and
stsawberies. It vill also lead to introducing
adeqvate facilities for grading, packing and
cold storing during the next five year plan
(1986/87 - 1980/91)
* 4 Insect-proff wire green houses were established
on the Vegetable Research Institute's farm in
Vokki in 1978, for preventing open pollinated
vegetable seeds bred by the Instituite from
cross pollination caused by insects.
* Allocations withdrawn from the loan prooceeds
. during implementation of the project.for the
establishm.g.t of the green houses in Kaha
amounted to US S 723,218.
Establishment of the four insect-oroof
ires green houses was financed bv local
currenc7 from the budget ef the Vegetable
Research tnstitute, MCOA. (El 40,000).
7 79 _



4.03.09-  The Seed Certification Lpartement (MOA):
4.03.09.01-  Introduction:
As mentioned in the previous chapter, the project
has allocated US $ 53,0(0 for the Central Administra-
tion for Seeds (C.A.S) which is part of (.0O&%)to
establish a seed certification departement to
maintain and make available to the farmer high
quality seeds and propagation materials of
superior crop plant varieties and to maintain high
genetic identity and purity.
That departement would also carry out field
inspection on vegetable seed production fields in
order to give acurate certificates for the seuds
produced.
But as the above allocations were not used
during the implementation period, they were
transfered to the Vegetable Breeding & Research
-nstitute.
4.03.09.02-  Achievements:
* After the establishment of the Seed Extraction
Line and the Seed Cleaning Station for Separa-
tion of Seedson NSPC's farm,a system of field
inspection was pue for seed production on the
farm and on the other farms contracting with
Nubaseed for producing certified seeds to be
cleaned on its Seed Cleaning Station.
* In 1984, the Ministry of Agriculture felc
necessary that field inspection for vegetable
seed production is urgently needed in order
to verify seed lots qualities.
A seed certification unit was then
established tinder the Central administration
of Seeds. (CAS, MOA), according to Act No.
53 of year 1966.
- 80S



The horticultural Roseareb Zuseituce Cook
the responsibility of training the staff .ieed 
for vegetable seed certificacion.
After training the staff, they are now
carrying ou  cheair activies in this respect
through different inatitutiona, including
Nubassed Compsay.
Out.caountr' 't.a.ning iL quLte necessary
since this system is newly inLroduced ia Eaypt
in order to increase the number of high
qualified officers in chiL  respect.
do source of financing was available to
this unit excpe through the CAS anual budget
which- is nsufficient to support it.
Nevertheless, Cho Egyptiaz Main Carals
rmprov.mae  Project (E(CZP), of th  Amrican
AID has already establishad a central 'a&b fully
equipped for this purpose and is now edtablis-
in% five modern seed procefisa  and cleaing
planes with a capaciCy of 6 cons per hour f or
each, tw of which are stacioned on che" (Sakha
Reserch Station farm of .A, Kafr El-Shlekh
Cov.)", and one on aech of CLm2s,a Research
Station fam of MQA, Charbia Gov., Cids Research
Stacion Earm of MOA. Beai-Sweet Gov., and
Shandaweel Research Stacion farm of WOA, Sohag
Gov.
Some of those lines have Soa certain
equipmentc as:
a) a de-beardcr for barley seeds in
IGinueza Line".
b) a velvet roll for berseem clover seeds
.n "Cits line".
Those Sines are expecced to be ready gor
use in Pebruary,1986.
- 81 -



V'. OPERATING PRFORMANCE
- 82 -



.. OPERATING  PEWPORMANCE
5.01-   The credit was expected t3 be disbursed over a five yar period in
accordance with the following estimated disbursement schedule.
(Para. 5.07 of the Staff Project Report No. 1181-EGT: Pages 74 &75):-
Years:
1977*     1978       1979         1980         1981         1982**
-                               - < -US $ milliou--
5.388     11.216    12.662        11.717       6.950        2.067
*   Starting July Int,1977.
** Ending June 30vh,1982.
5.02-   But during implementation actual disbursementsduring the previous
mentioned years were as fellows:-
Years:
1981       1978        1979       1980         1981          1982*
- - ------US $ million
0.374       2.-538      3.700      9.488      12.788         5.821
I    I
* Till end of December,1982.
5 .03-   Thus withdrawals till end of December,1982 (Closing date according
to Section 2.04 of the loan agreement of the project) is 69.4%.
- 83 -



3.04-   It was agreed in November,1982 between the Vbrld Bank and the
Govement to keep the loan account open after the closing date
for withdrawals from the credit proceeds till December 31,1983.
Furthermoe, in June 18,1985 a teleax from the World Bank
stated that the Bank had no objection to keep the loan account
open through Deember 31,1985-seas azeptional case - La order
to allow for the delivery of equipmet needed to be purchased
by ZPADP for chael mauneanance in the IUbaryia area.
5.05-  Actual withdrawals during yeas of implemetaion (from 1977 to
1985) comared to wht was estimated by the'staff appra.sal
report were as follows:-
Year             zaciaeted withdrawals    Actual withdrawals
.         US $ million             US $ Million
1977                    5.388                     0.374
1978                   11.216                     2.538
1979                   12.662                     3.700
1980                   11.717                     9.488
1981                    6.950                    12.788
1982                    2.067                     5.821
198j                     _                        2.228
1984                     _                        1.370
1985                                             10.337
lotal  I     b_                        W  AE~I 
Tocal                  50.000                    4,8.644
Actual expenditures during implementation (as obtained
from the iiplaemeing aenucies) compared to *hat twas projected
were as follows:-
- 84 -



BEST. C~~~PY  AVAILABLE                   i >:~~7per,dittire £  ri    rleteai;.
i3r- 0PY      (UuErornsa.rtd to '.hat wat piejectcd by the staff al:.iiia) riport.
As projected                                Act"l expenditures
in the staff appraisal report                      during implermcntation
Implementing  Agencies                     .               a                          o
Foreign         Local           Total         Foreign          Local           Tota
.  _.(IBRD)  (Equivalent 4)                    (1BRD)    (Equivalent 4)
A. Vesetable Seed Producti,o:                   US $' 000        US 4' 000      US $4 000      us                 $'0Q00       U  S'
1. Nubariya Seed Production Co.                13,958          14,419        28.377         1,292           10.342          18,63
2. Seed Certification Agency                       53              13                                          - _  _
3. Vag. Resertch.Imstitute                        266              6332                      0723                40             72
D. Kubariia 
1. UsberiW,          .81                ;      14,603          27,121  .      41.724       U,               61,973           77,72
2. Seali                                         876           106W           2,511        '   *            1_,381          12,3C
C. Ago-i* rM           n_t
1. Potato Croqip r1op.rati'                     bl76            3,03           7,269         S.f7             1,9SD           7,42
2. El Wadi Export Co.                           5.486           3,024          8,510           _              1,004      . 1.c
3. Mile Company                                   492             339            831            26            0,098.          OD,1
4. Union of Producers and E4porters of
Hlorticultural Crops                         702             719          1,421           467            1,032           1,4
5. General Agro-Industries Credit               9,322           7,627  *      16,949        15,383           21,369          36.7!
D. Bank Miss - Technical Assistance and
TtaininB:                                           66          .  17             83         0,112             _              0O11
TOTAL                                   05.073                     108,073        48,409*&                        l&J.4
Percent of Total                       246              254         2100            231             Z69             zl(<
*   Data of actual expendituires is obtained from the implementing agencies.
**  t ;,,t :._ ..~..I..-}. .  : *¢   ..~. _   : r.s .....  iL  '..-..1.-... .t.-. - ..e.., t.   *' .  .   .   * .  *I  * f  A an



VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
8
- 86 -



VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.01-   The financing plan which was proposed in the appraisal report for the
project was:-
Amount                   2          Currency
US $ million
IBRD                     50.000                  46          Foreign
Government/Bank Misr.   43.801                   41           Local*
Sub-borrowers.           14.272                  13           Local*
108.073                 100
6.02-   Ac:ual financing as agreed upon with IDA during implementation was:-
.4mount
-mot                  2           Currency
US $ million
IBRD                     48-644                 31           Foreign
Government/Bauk Misr    83.768                  53            Local
Sub-borrowers            24.421                 16           Local
156.833                too
6.03-   Main reasons for deviations during implementation are shown on
actachment no.(3).
*  Equivale=nUS $ in Local Egyptian currency: 1 US $   E £E  0.59.
**  Equivalent US $ for this item was calculated at : 1 US        E a £E 084.
- 87 -



I                                     *g
N              *



VII. INSTITUTIOL  PE3ORACE AND  DEEOPtE
7.01-   institutional Arrangements:
Some of the new institutional arrangements as planned by the project
(Schedule 2 attached to the Loan Agrement) have been completed,
others are still under estblishment, and some have been cancelled,
as shown in the following table (nezt page).
- 89 -



''-                   u-
New tetitMc.ei  os.6ahtieaso                                              ii                         3 _  a skfl
1atabitaese8  6 ..as  a e   tso*   o0  about 23,000 feddee. LoW        I                             £a4abiio1d LB the &AboWita
she pedvetiom of w.ptable seed.                                                                         .
S4Aflog of N8UC Co. 
rraiai.. tim   C    ta  m
Lqid,La time USC's Ldta.                                                        Z
dewain  4 Wraagwetow  at#ablLaImens am NSPC's (Im.                     I                              tahiheag   took tamer
Cawtifi6ati,o  6 soA  cloeeing ootabtiLahmaa  ea NOC's fam.            X
';s.agrasuita  of i*urus& tamiusso otuakt 'an aSn' tam.                I
CoamatzaetLo  at tho =mia d8nse~ olandL.                                                Ioe   a*longer sine the
AtoIia&ag of the. u..u Coal.
%APaed.ia  A aq.&p$ng of the Vegtable 3uooig Usia of tgun                                           Kaeebliuaam.a of    pinacta
ASLmnalthani teoourah tassituse (WO).                                                                gree  hounue a 4 Ianmes
psoe  w sewn roommae.
LapoadiagI .q pia Of she So"g CaftifleStiga Doooatargot,                                  I          oa  rttieasies gait
*%JIQ~~~~~~~~~~~~) * ~~~~~~~~~ea eonbthi Lafe   to   8
by te Cmenral  zA*"-
serasia. Lw sea" (CS&.
IWA), wis th c   "at
4e4OUiUSBUa  Ot do AtfivaLta, Owevop.e  Landing Unit                   I                               Of an AX  iaa AM fteIas
*victba Iwab tiac.
'ZZiGIAS of9 CsA StaLL Of the aenstogo  Unit. 
CI.accatiujef of coLd stores, proeuoetag, packiae dA" baa4Un 
igailuit * by ptvagot coopeagive ad companies partly
tinaaaoa  catotaga oub-7roj ect ioan,.
;..ution of potate CoLd Stores fot IC.
FacabtLLenMeC at citrus posting eseafuma and Storage fac~iLcioas~I
"OSCrtuoi.atM   Vago4aalo arading sad Paalaa  d9tatORo 9d(They (eoLm that the inter*SC
:oLd stores for she 3t.o Co.faeo    h    rictw
La assa Che ia.
;ausceian of cold a sta e  ant  trapr   aciliie for                    X
- 90t   BEST. C PY AVAILABLE



7.02-   Management and Organizacional Effectiveness:
(a) After establishing the Nubaseed Farm at the start of the project.,
the staff of the farm was strengthened as:-
* a full time accountant is now on the project site, and this
has resulted in better book-keeping;
*  three director gonerals have beenappointed to supervisethe seed
processing plants, the irrigation and drainage systems, and
the agricultural sector;
* a seed certification unit to test seed purity and quality has
been set up headed by an agricultural engineer and three
assistants;
* a qualified engineer with overseas training is supervising
the seed cleaning plant;
* a number of staff, has been trained in the field of production
and processing of seeds;
* study tours and training courses were provided to a number
of the staff;
* on the human side, a comunityof over 5,000 people has been
settled in the fringe of the desert with provision of pure
water, electricity, schools and headlth clinics,             etc.
(b)  A loan agricultural departtment in BANK MISR, as a unit to study
and follow-up tlhe agricultural development and food security
projects was established in September,1977 as a separate
departement under the Investement Center of the Bank. It used
the International Competitive Adjudication regulations of
the World Bank to get con.:racted with a german expertise
office for consultancy. A staff of 15 persons including
all levels of management were nominated to this unit.
They aquired cheir training in realizing the purposes of the
unic on the hands of qualified technicians from that consult-
ancy office and by delegations from the World Bank. (see para
4.03.01.02 of this report).
- 91 -



I
VIII. ECONOMIC  REEVALUATION
- 92 -



Vill. ICONCHIC REEVALUATION
s.01-   Some institutional targets and progresses were completely or partly
achieved. Some others are still under establishment or cancelled,
as shown on page (90) of this report.
Reasous for r.n  deviations in saoe activities during implemnta-
tion are shown on the same page (No. 90), avA on the attachment No. ( 4).
It is clear that achievements in some of the project components
are still at POC time not yet complete, as:
*    The construction of the main drainage channel.
*    The repairing and relisng of the Nasr Canal.
Thus it is early now at PCR time to predict any economic evalua-
tion about thea.
But nevertheless it is expected that after the completion of the
main drain and the complete relining of the Nasr Canal, productivity
of the Nubaseed farm would be raised by not less than 25S.
8.02-   It has been r*elised that total vegotable production on the National
level in 1984 compared to production in 1977, has raised more than
30% as shown in the following table, the data of which is obtained
from the Centr4l Administration for Economics & Statisticts, MOA:-
Tocal            Total
Years              Cropping Ar:a of   Production
Fed.             Tons.
1977                   762,676         5,584,629
1984                  873,851          7,303,623
2 of area & Production in 1984 .
compared to 1977.                   2 114.5           2 130.8
- 93 -



8.03-   Avarages of production per feddan have also raised during the peribd
1977-84, especially for tomatoes, pepper,squash, cucumber, eggplant,
cabbage and weet-pocatoes, as shown on actacluant No. ( 1 ), which
maifests ares and total production of each of the Major vegetable
crops on the National level in 1984 compared to areas and production
in 1977.
It is clear that some kinds of vegetables like strawberries were
not existing in 1977 as they were introduced starting 1980, the
production of which now covers all the local needs and the rest is
exported to turopan countries by airoplanes: 76 tons were exported
in 1984, and 36 tons were exported in 1985.
8.04-   In spite of the fact that the target of pmducting 502 of vegtable sae
requirmets of Egypt is not yet achieved, yet for some kinds
of seeds like watemelon and musimlon, the production of
certified seeds by Nubaseed (ou Nubaseed farms and on ocher
farms under the full direction and supervition of Nubaseed)
reached in 1985 more than 1002 of the requirem2nts of the
Country, which resulted in stopping the importacion of
Watermelon and muslalon seeds, as shown on page 48 of Zhis
report
S.05-   Isolated areas for prodUcinf8reisctered seeds on Nubaseed farm
were also made available. Qiuanticias of isgistered watermelon
and squach seeds were produced on the farm during the last tw
yeas, as shown on page 47, under the Vegetable Research
Institut, ()
2.06- The production of improved seed potatoes on *SPC5s arm which was
one of the main targetsof the ;roiect stoped,as seed potato prociuccion
in the Nubariya area proved to be very poor and costly, fur:her-
more a great percentage of the crop Save very small Size seeds
vhich were not desired by fa=mers.   a as shoun in dea±l on pages
31 & 52).
- 94 -



IX- APPENDIES
.95 -



Attachment 1
Page I of 2_pages
Yields of Major Vegetable Crops
on the National Level.
1977 & 1934
. - 96 -



-~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~ .  .u t4. 4.     J jJ4*U
Yields of Major Vegetable Crop.
on the 14ational Level
1977 & 1984
1977      ______                    .4Am...
Crop         Cropping   Yield per    Total         Cropping   Yield per Total
Area      aedda         Production   Area       leddan      Productic
Tomato          293,385       6.70       1,966,744    321,085       9.32    2,992,79t
Squash           51,048       7.71         393,426     60,027        8.01      480,95t
Common Beans     23,210       3.57          82,822     92,469        3.74      110,23'
Fresh Cow Peas    3,697       3.26          12,055      3,372        3.60       12,31.
Fresh Peas       13,758       3.14          34,148     17,496        3.66       63,01f
ICabbage          34,251       9.92         339,646     37,691       10.61      399,77(
.Cauliflower       09272      9.33           86,510     95,098       9.46        90,81a
Rggplant         27,655       8.66         239,464     30,25         9.06.     273,711
Pepper           19,256       6.24         123,225     25,859        6.68      172,701
Okra              11,004      5.87          64,546      10,783       5.82       62,811
Jaws Mallow       9,198       7.91          72,792     11,396        6.78       77,23
Spinach           5,357       6.27          33,566      5,090        7.11       36,25.
Taro               5,665     12.79          72,471      7 S98       13.80      104,87:
Sweet Potato      7,824       8.75          68,488      9,363       10.60       99,23
Strawberry                                       *      4,662        4.06       19,32
|Watermalon      113 ,864    10. 42      1,186 ,826    124,229       9.51    1,18L, go
Sweat melon      13'568       9,64         130,763     21,469        9.52      204,43
ICucumber         35,477      6.07          215,450     41,351       6.86       283,63
Snake cucumber    8,192       6.82          55,864      7,598        7.25       55,11
Cantalope          1,945      8.57          16,662     15,132        5.01       87,53
*  No Strawberry aress were grown before 1980.
** Data of this table is obtained from the Central Administration for Economics
& Statisticts, MOA.
_ 97 _



Page 3 of 3. PSAeS,
Average Yields
Under Plastic reGen Rousas Erected Under
The Projact on Kaha Research Station Farm,
Comparad to Average Tields in the Open Air.
Avarag  Yield
Crops       Al   over      Under the             10marka
the        Creen houes
Cotry         (inM
Tons/Fed     Toai/Led
Cucumber          6-7        40 - 43       )Yields in winar in
Pepper            6-t 24 - 28               the open air is sach
Tomatoes          12        60 - o0       )lower tn in sumer, I
but under Sreen
)houses thare are no
uach fluctuations.
Cancalope        6-8            27          N. hope of producing
cancalope in open
arin Wanter.
I3B: 1) All seeds vsed under the plascic green houses wera
first seed generation.
2)  All jreen houses were provided by both drip and misc
irrigation syscams wich cheir appropriace equipmenC.
3) Crops were growu and yields abcsined off-season
especially in winter when prices on the markecs
ra much higher chan prices during season.
Moreover, in case of some crops lika canClope
there is no hope of producing it in the open
air in winter.
-98'



Pale 1 of 2 pages
Seed-Potatoes
Imported by PGC & UPEHC.
1976 - 1984
9
. j
_ 99 _



Attachment 2
Pase 2 of 2 pages.
Seed-Potatoes
Imported by GPC & UPEHC
From 1976 to 1984
IFiscal Year         Imported by  GPC       Imported by UPEHC          Total
Tons                   zon                 IM
1976/77                     34265                  3300                 37655
1977/78                     31020                   1500                32520
1978/79                     33389                  4730                 38199
1979/80                     36008                 10550                 46558
1980/81                     33289                 11337                 44626
1981/82                     25997                 16400                 42397
1982/83                     23058                 15860                 38918
1983/84                     22957                 15260                 38197
1984/85                     30005                 21238                 51243
Daica obtained from CPC and UPEHC.
- l00 -



13 Pages.
Financial Status
of the Project on Dec. 31,1985
Page 1     : Local & Foreign Actual Expenditures During Implementation
Compared to What was projected in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Page 2     : Foreign Expenditures from the Loan Proceeds During
Implementation Compared to Amounts Allocated for
Each Component & Reasons for Deviatiations.
Page 3 & 13: Withdrawals from the Proceeds of the loan Under Each
Individual Category.
Page 4 & 12: Withdrawals Under Each Individual Application.
- 101 -



Attac:hment 3
Page 1 of 13 pages
uibcal & Foreign Expenditures During lmplementation
Compared to Wllat was  Projected in  the Staff Appraisal Report.
As projected                               Actual Expenditures
In The Staff Appraisal Report                     During Implementation
Implementing Agencies            Foreign   i    Local    i    Total          Foreign        Local          Total
(IBRD)     (Equivalent   _       _         (IBRD )   [Equivalent 5)
A. Vegetable Seed Productiout          US $'000         US $'000      US $$000        US $'000     US $'000      US $'000
1. Nubariya Seed Production Co.       13.958          14,419        28,377          8,292        10,342        18,634
2. Seed Certification Agency.             53              13            66            -             -            _
3. Veg. Research Institute.              266              t6           332          0,723         0,040         0,763
B. Nubariya Drainage Wjorks;
1. Nubariya Main Outfall.             14,603          27,121        41,724         16,000        61.973        77.973
2. Sealing of Nasr Canal                 876           1,635         2,511          1,929        10,381        12,310
*      C. Agro-industries Component:
1. Potato Crowers' Cooperative.        4,176           3,093         7,269          5,727         1.950         7.677
2. El Wadi Export Co.                  5,486           3,024         8,510           -             1,004        1,004
3. Nile Ccopany.                         492             339           831          0,026         0,098         0,124
4. UPEHC.                                702             719         1,421          0,467          1,032        1,499
5. General Agro-lndustries Credi       9,322           7,627        16,949         15,383         21,369       36,752
D. Bank Hisr - Technical Assistance
and Ttaining:                             66              17             83         0,112           -           0,112
TOTAL                         50,000          58,073       108,073         48,659       108,189       156,848
Percent of Total               X46            224           2100            231           269        _VOO
*   Rates of exchange for those items are calculated at (US $ 1 - RE 0.84).  Rates of exchange for the rest of
items are calculated at (US $ I - EL 0.59).
'*  List of paid withdravals received from IDA on Feb. 4,1986 stated that vithdravals from the loan amounted to
I1S $ 48,643,668.                                                                           .



Alt ..tteq. N,. 3
ffaaps.ditute dutlue aqstem8 mtnn             Pose  2 0f 13  p^a
Csiaeud at muCea alaolUodle  t saem edtosoet
6 tenemse oet deviaee                            t    gt..
C_. 'Its.  tu     tffit[                 etet  t23 Aitge"aS Ied                                 fo italie
-  the Peaf set   deulug Iupte.iomtat                                       W
__~~~~v  iw
A. Ye!aetl Sed Peeat tar
1. lhbti,  tati  adsts Ci.                        12.958              842             'e cold *getes tt seed  Cteam   at
peeseauteu  pleas. mete * tslisb'l
2. ea  CuutStUaets  33m                                               0,000    t _ta atlaemeed mete mo  sesa
Slu. tuisetaw   Ia te   g. Xehstl
5. tag. Remegui  Zeat"igas                           264                t23           Aettl _aese  jetr oteabilleble  stea
mch" mote thfte. inat46s elasasd.
3. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    _t fiawt flatag  'hutusm
!. ltuht,  Xth  OmefatI                          14,*402             15,750          (Aetsul muewsetf.qtem. epttu
2. Setin  at the  Cse.                              876                t.92s             eat met.* tae.   us a'Iaestsd
S.
*Itefi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C. n1 "  Aon Co.                                   -0-4e ((thtte                               to ha   to teett 4* ty tMet 
t.Pse.S    Gemt'Cepvcw                             4,1                5.2             ActualK teapue ltees amtamt fthitpt le
(uie  seetha ment rtis Wi.            for
.  te    tro_  tie Co. s OL  t e Selt 
.o( ftht   etsv           tateI i
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ite. NACAtfpaed  r8 n20000
(    rvwed-%wCS.
& *'mi. t Pedset sd txmpowtess of)
t   t    l Cn                  ) t1t                             441            emi7 huir  me eatd stoore eg pwtttbaed
t  tuites .t etac aClsoe felt tto
ittetest rote is high.
5. C~eeat Ain - -adsuau   Ctudit                  9,32                15,383          As sred  Ctth tMA ato Atiacatt wt
eu i*de Wet I.a1t@ fr so"e Iest
n0"iev7 . ;eivets-
1. stu 141st - .Tee,ftcol Amistaut_e am
?wets.ses                             )              64                  112 t8 $ 4600 tet- *Veee wC e *m_
allocated to *vt a's* tee Mt bab
_;~~~~~~   I
x   Actual vithdrwrals as recei':ed from  IDA  amounted  co t:S      48,643,568.
J3e



Attachment 3
Page 3 of 13paaes.
Withdrawals From
The Proceeds of Loan No. 1276/EGT.
Under Each Category
Withdrawals
Category                                   Items                     from the proceeds of
the.Loan.
us $
1        Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and consultants'             770,060
services for part (A) of the Project.
2        Civil works and engineering, and equipment and            17,819,720
vehicles for part (B) of the Project.
3        Civil works and engineering, and consultants'             10,337,048
services for parts (C) and (D) of the
Project and financed under subproject
loans; and consultants' services for
part (E) of the Project.
4        Equipment, vehicles and spare parts for parts              19,716,840
(C) and (D) of the Project and financed
under subproject loans.
TOTAL                               48,643,668
For details of withdrawals see following pages:-
-104-



Attachaent 3
Pagt 4 cf 13 pages
u a   L a   6Ad X
51P046 ID; CIUDUI*10(                                     "LOA  DSEPAOIINN                                       amIN T166    0:41 P6M
RUN P0lf: 10/3)/8#                              P     AS VIOAALS 106 LOAN   612760 t14                           PAC  No 
--CmunCV of £EDL DtURI--  VALU4                                --- CUABnCV  DIS6U IC---
U/A      AM.*6.CATBOS      CAfTGtU   £006                AIS N     0416     REPAW 00LA  COMM.-    CO"                   A6063
-------   _______-____-__-_---..... .               ....._.   ..__..___._. _ ....................  ....            ......______
*    *                 3            36           60.0so.ooo   04/64/11         *1.18.6             I           2.5.330
a    2                 3            14           21.00.00   046/1              * ..                6            0.604.000
2    3                 3            36            '. 33.. N   0103/11              ..0             1           *$1.62..10
4    4.                3            26           *4.0.e4   05a/2               14.41.                          24.411.310
8    5                 3                          3.603.260  G6/6411 .6.066.02                     6            6.060.0
6    8                 3            36            1. 133.33   07/06/17         $2.269.r3           *            6.269.330
7    1                 3            54            1.3.0o      81/17111              60."                            42.0
*    6*0               3            36            8.61".116    "I /6/11,       $33.456.32                       32.456.320
0    to                3            S4           20.0O0.000    0/l6/1         $53. 666.0t          6            13.6 sq0.920
t0    I                 3            36           t4.266. 66    10/04/17        626.004. t          6           215.04.0to
6I   t2                 3            36            1.140.230   6/61/171         tt3.161.31         1t             3.127.370
62    14                3            36            7.036.330'  62#2/71          56 3. ll.34         6            13.1".340
63    6/717             3                        6.0.0 63/6/1                  162.200.0            6           113.200.000
14    t3-A              4              6          08.066.60   62/2111           *64.966.0           6               06.800
6S   I6                 3            36           0.1t.33    02/17/18           *66.440.49                       6.440.490
t6    17                3            14             .1.20   0/03/16                S".67            *                34.610
1     *3-U              4              S          84.226.600  04/071/1          $84.223.80                       4.226.00
3  10    69             t            36            3.113.330   04/64/16          65s.220.16         6            6.286.560
69    20                3            54           25.000.000   04/3/6            43.45.             6 t2.452660
20    5/3-6             2              I          46.30.0   041/41/1             541.24%            *            45.26.20
2    0/2-a              2              6          650,103.600   04/36/71        S60.702.60                     *60.103.800
22   26                 3              6         662.20.000  05/6/16             *40.104.80         6            40.104.000
223   5-2-C             2              6          ,0.144.6SO  06 /63/8           to0.564.6          6            60.64.690
24    6/5               a            36           16.400.000  0/"/3/             530.393.44                      30.20.440
25    5/2-0             a              I          26.046.360  06/37/16          $63.046.36         2*.046.360
26    63-C              4              6         se6. 44.600 . 00/29/17        $s66.064.50          6           6"564.00
27    68                4             64          60.20.m    01/05/178          *153.644.09         *           653.844.100
35    3-4-A             2              6         494.855.000  07/06/18          *494.051.00         *           464.011.000
29    6/*-U             2                          2j6 t.1     0?1/0/16           $3.601.So                       2.606.500
30    8/2-F             a              6           S083.640   07/20/16           $*.603.04           6            5.803.840
36    6/6               2             36           9.460.000   00/04/78          618.226.61          6           6.226.61o
32     36               aS                        40.104.000  06/16/6            640.704.00                      40.704.000
33    26-FIN&C-         4             b4    *    33a644.000  06/at/l            6611.6,12Ss                     *t 626§
34    S60fFtM)-V/427   4              64          60.200-.00   07/00/710        663.844.6s-         *           613.644.00-
35    to                4             64          60.200.OOi   07/05/76         *86.000.00           6           86.000.000
U6- -A                 2              6          14,044.600   09/04/16         5t14.644.40         6           614.044.600
21    2 - tFIA&L        4                         48.60.640   04/21/16           $46.60.64           *           48.860.040
30    23-FINAL          4              S          64.440.600   09/26/10          1$4.448.40          6           64.440.400
36    32-FINAL          4             36          25.2.8.   l0/6/16              *50.0161.61         6           110.0S6-0O
40    26-A              4              6          ".66.7.0   W0/66/16            860.066.70          S           66.06.1T0
46    24-fitIL          4              1           8.82600   I/V/16               *6.3.60                         .263.
42    33-FItAL          4              6          23.329. 104   6/021678          23.3266            6           23.* ". 10
43    31-A              4              1         260.18.00    1/o0/1            *260.60.0                       260.560000



Attachmeot 3
Page 5 of 13 pa_ges
WOOLD BANK
REPOaT 10: CTRODI7MOf)                                 LOM OEPAO"#                                        MA8 VISO .  ;46 Poo
mmU 046: tO/30/85                            PAID VITHOSAVALS FOR LON   62760 £6r                         PA" No        a
--CUlt -----------------------Y--Ot-Eo---
- -CURRUCY OF aXPENM01--  VALUE                             -~CIRRm~*ev DISBURSED---
/A       APPLICATl 1TEG03   CODE                     AmT  . DATE    "PPA DOLAR. 1v.    CODE                     MOUNT
--  -------          -----   ...                 -----      --       -----4------    ....                  ----
44   37-A             4             1        214.st0.0       /5           "8.70.00   .                  276.570.000
48   22-FtIAL         4            97        3218.63.400   6/*1t/78        $74.240.06        6           14.340.000
44    37/70           3            54         25.000.00    *6/64/7a        6$3.,21.,         9           63.276.33
47   35-A             4             6          4.030.300   1311219          S4.0n.3"         1            4.030.350
48    30-A            4             S         ".36?.M 4     2/62/78        $48.11.64        *           ".6. 140
49   28-A             4             S         10.634.310  6312/3T          $40.24-.31        I           10,624.310
50   27-S             4             6         22.344.230   62/27/13        *22.340.23        I           25.344.230
SI   3/2-4            2             t         48.370.400   2M/76/          146.270.40        6           46.370.400
52   38/73            3             1         40.o04.000. 06106/75         %40.14.00         6           40.704.000
53   8-4-8            2             6         54.965.000  01/7             SS4*.3 G          6           54.395.000
54   39/7             3            54          1.960.200  01/24/"           $1.*037.98       1             6.0 80
58   40/79            3            54          1.857.200  03/13/7           $1.05.44         6            1.055.440
s5   25-8             4             6          8.020.440  026/79             5. 4                         .020.440
S7    4 6/79          3             *         40.704.000  04/051711         40.*04.0o        *           40*70 .000
s5   34-A             4             6          3.230.aso  04/ 0/1"         $S.230.3          I            5.2350.110
59    3-4-C           a             6         955.27.710   04/13/78        ISg.276.70        6           95.276.700
s0   27-C             4             6            736.390  04/17/79            SJ3.39         1             746.30,
as   43/79            3            54         36.80Q.900  09/1O/79         $16.901.61        t           *6.807.8o0
82    13-FINAL        4                       2 34.4s5.90o  os05is/"/     S4.451.20          1          34.455.900
63    44/79-A         4             t        634.402.0C00  06/25/7*       S64.402.00,        6           34.402.000
64   8-2-FINAL        2             i         13.e6t.210  06/25/79         $13.S1l.21        1           13.911.210
65    44/79-8         4             t      1.002.4t6.0C0   07/09/"      86.002.141.00        *        6.002.416.000
66   3/8-A            2            36         54.7".610  01/27/789        4127.13.30         6          127.103.300
47    20-C            4             6         12.7?6.520  01/27/15         162.715.5sa       S           62.71.520
eS    1-4-0           2             *         12.209.000  07/27/7          S52.209-38        I          5.209.30
69   I-A-FtNAL        *7                     243.935.t20  O/O3/79         $57.362.75        t          27.362.70:
70   2A               6                       20.3aso0.oo  o0/n3/7 s0.00000 o                           20.8o0.000
7I   34               I                       1 .  10.440.000  06/33/?7   $90.440.00         6           60.440.000
72   3-8-A            2                       O.4000.000  08/63/79        S10.000.CO         6  I00.000.000
73   44/79-C          4             1         24.000.000  06/23/79         124.000.00        6          24.000.000
74   42/71-fI1AL      4            36          t.9107.9t70  0/30/79        $30.l09.t i                  38.I0D.610
75   48/79            3            3a          2.718.000  O8/05/79          58.2.51          6           8.203.%70
76   49/7a                          6 1       43.t27.000  09/27/79         S43.127.00        I          43.127.000
77   5A               t            38          9.000.000   10/$8/79               to9.!05.t0  t          6.336.600
78    44/79           4             I   ,     40.000.000    0/23/79        $48.000.00        6          48.000.000
79    47/79-A         4            36        318.091.000   66/01/79       U57.41t.42         6         tS1.41#.420
dO    $2/79           t             I          4.487.000   3/164/79         S4.461.00                    * 4.487.000
9 *   53/79           1             1         43.621.000   I 6/20/79       563. t27.00       t          43.127.000
82   54/79-A          3             2     20.2SO.000.000   12/06/79       1722.5S4.13        172.669 *30
8t3   4-A-FZN%L        6           36         37.480.760   12/06/"         1412.701.27       6          82.766.270
84    a*&             I             I          8.3s2.000  12/06/79          S.3152.00        6           0.352.000
ftS  .M)/7            3            35          3.039.040  t2/18/179        6s.o6.20    t                 S. 6".8200
343   57/79           3            54         32.500.000  62/3609          $14.906.34        *          0O.906.340
.          .    .~~~ ..



Attactwuaeit 3
Pdage 6 ot 13 pag
w 6B L a 8  a " g
A&9ORI 10: CIOL5I701E)                                    LOAN OIPAOJNE&4I                                                 0:  P
REPORI 10:                    LOAN 09PARIINUT                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAO TINE    5:41 PM
RAJ DATE : 60/30/sb                            PAID VIIINAWALS FOR LOAN   02160 gOa                            PA" no        3
- -CUaNC Of EXPWI1TU31-- VALUSE                              ---CUqROtgcy DSsanSfD---
Y/A      £PPLICALIIN       CAT6OcR      s               AOISOON   DATE    SEPAl POLLAA 19EV.    CODg AEO1fldT
___ ------                 -------- ____        .       ----    -----________ ..........__._. ......... ----         ------_
07    56/79-FINAL       3             I           2.1-00.00   12/63/09         1I3,100.00         t           93.700.000
as    56J79             3            14          01.224.00   92/26/10          506.034.,"         I           S4.024.3
Be    59/79             2            14           a,18.6030  04/06/00           $3.021.43         0            2.131.430
00    9-t-B             3             t          33.624.000   00/11/#          133.624.00         0           33.624.000
01    47/79-r           4            36           3.040.150   00/24/a0         $16890.60       * *             6.oo.e00
92    61/70             3            36           1.043.440   00/31/40         5.2.4              *           S3.0.640
93    65/19             4             0          0a.000.000   01/25/0          195.000.00         I.0..5.000.000
04    8-4-1             a             I          10."06.30o   00/20/00         10.a56.-30         *           to. "6.3
ss    34-SINAL          4             A           s.2.56.20  02/a3/o0          st.218.12          *            3.258.120
96   60380              2            t4          23.424.000  03/01/80          $33.462."          I           33.462.860
97    47/19-C           4            a6         l3B.356.1150. 0/01/00         $294.646.33         0          204.640.330
06    64/00             3            14         117.703.W00   03/07/00        S231.410.81         0          225.415.570
09   8/4-8ISS/2         2             1          a 1.103040  03/01/0           S51,102.14         *    .      51.702.140
t00    54/79-r           3             2       3a, I1.113.000  03/20/8S       10.0T.08            I           103.651.000
Sol   66/00              2            04           2.61.000  03/25/00           13.571.43         I            3.57S.430
S0o    66/80            4             04          00.100.000  03/25/80         611.000.00          I           6.000.000
So0    a4/)n-C          3              2       6.721.639.0.  03/21/00         s0.10s.01           I      -   208.185.010
1t3    47/79-0          4             36          33. ao.eno  03/25/0         172.S5l.S3         1           72.850.930
_ 04    47/70-f         4.            36         366.622.810  04/02f0         5a53341.42          1          623.341.420
O     05o   04/19-0           3              2       6.121.63*.000  04/11/a0        6221.46.06          I          22S.400.060
606    65/80             3            54          27,120.800  04/1 /00 s14.8b4.52                  *           14.041.50
*    007    46/79-A           4             1         215.367.200  04/10/00         0215.3.20           0 *76.361.200
t0o    47/19-F          4             36         505.604.740  04/06/00      51.620.622.39          0        t.120.622.390
*09    5-4-F            2              I           5.001.100  04/16/00          1S.800.60          I           5.*01.100
t00    41/78-6          4             36         130.310.150  04/20/60        1291.063.20         I           291.063.290
too    47/79-11         4             36          11t737.a02   06/02/50        140.625.02         I            40.625.020
002    5d479-0-0Efix4D   3             2       6.737.639.000   04/11/00        $22I.4U.04-        I           220.48.000-
013    47/79-1          4             36         n09.220.070  06/02/00        1455. 000.| 5                  4s5.000.050
104    NM 6W/00         4             04           3.468.000  05/00/SaO         14050.00           i            4.010.O00
01    8-0-fIN"A         2              1          1.0W0.000  a06/13/0          500,067.00          0           to.001.000
0$6    76/80             0             I          86.2".000  05/0/S0          6SM.2M4.00           0          06.264.000
.017    54/70-1          3             2 .       ,$7I1.933.OD  05/23/00        S303.760.73         0          302.760.130
000    70/10           4             04  ..       1.250:.a0   05/1/50         10(500.00           I           00.500.000
609    4Xt7/70         4            36          261A  .750   05/29/0         0699.410.92                               0 *og9.6e.g0
020    50/79-FINAL      3             36          21.600.00   06/04/00          MAM0.S20.4         I          10.302.480
028    47/79-K          4             36         314.013.I20  06/03/00        $139.634.64          t          139.634.640
t22    1-A               0             9          04."4.000   0/06/00          514.6".00           *           04.064.000
123    47/79-1           4            36          87080.100  06/20/00          1204.039.62         0          204.9S0.620
124    47/79-N          4             36          20.015.00    01/9/Q0          853.39.6"          0           52.309.690
fi5    0-9-A            a             53      10.1 o61.eo00o  01/30/00          $40.23240          0           40.232.400
026    47/79-fINAt       4            36         195.451.490  06/04/O0         1482.400.6t         0          462.491.510
027    0-9--            2             S3      S6.428.60.ooo   01/30/SO         5380.631.50         0          3e0.e7.500
622    77/00            4                4        61.703.000   08/06/SO         110,100.43         *           60.101.430



Attachment 3
Page 7 of 13 pages
WORL    SaaNK
REPORT tD: CTRORI7OME)                                    LOAN OEPARTMEN                                       RUN TIME   6:41 PtA
OM DATE : 10/30/o8                             PAID WITHDRAWALS FOR LOAN   t2760 lOT                           PAE 66O       4
--CURRENCY OP EXPENWI1E-   VALUE                              ---CURRvxY OISBUSED---
Y/A      APPLICATION       CATEGORY   CODE              A6OUT   DATE    REPAY DOLLAR EOUVZ.    coD"                  AMNT
___ -----------            -------- .___-.....          ...... ....  ,    ..  ..  _._ .....  -------------------    _ __----  ---
129    73/80-FINAL      4              6         90.944.000  06/15/60          $90.944.00          6          60.944.000
1a0    54/79-F          3              2      9.471.963.000  08/25180           3223.548.66        1          329.543.5S0
131                     2              t        604.032.000  06/26/80          5604.032.00         1         604.032.000
tJ2    54/71-0          3             2       65814.5,2.000  09/03/80          5360.584.37         t          310.s94.370
*33    an 66/60         4             14         t8,I10.oo0  06/68/60          521.571.43          1          29.871.430
134    6-7-A            2            36          1T.000.000   10106/80        S279.237.50          1         29.337.500
135    72/80-FINAl      4              1         ao.;03a.0o   10/10/60         S60.036.00 o                   60.036.000
136    8-7-8            2            36          12.450.540   10/21/60         $0.05.67           *           301.0s1.9o
137    e1/80            4             14         60.277.oqo   t0/21/90        s$s6110.00          I           as. IMOW0
138    REFUfNO-W/A*134   2            26         23.400.000   tt/10/so         $57.169.60-         t          s7. 6.9.6O-
139    16/80            3                        43.27.000   11/05/80          543.627.00         1           43.127.000
140    44/79-E          4              t        134.402.000 a  t/01/J0        SMa4.402.00         1          134.402.000
141    6-A              I              1         10.288.000  1t/0/60           $60.268.00         *           10.268.000
142    9-A               I           39          16.665.760   1tw12180          4.27.8S           I           40.397.8S5
143    74/60-FINAL      4  .I                    19.656.000   11/24/60         SlS.658.00         I           19.65s.000
144    79/00            3              I .       43.227.000   t 1/2610         543 t23.00         1           43.137.000
6     145    8-7-C             2            36           1.626.570   #2/0S/S0          $3.797.39         t            3.707.390
646    54/79-3          3             2         165.000.000   12/t10/80          s5244.75         t            5.244.7S1
147    62/80            3                        43.127.000   12/16/80         643.27.000         t           43.127.00
144    45/79-6          4                        8 4.594.220   12/16180        S84.594.22         *           64.594.2120
t49    8/10             2            34          21.702.1t0   12/24/80         S50.816.43         6           S0.978.430
150    75/8O-A          4            36          23,16.500)  12/24/60          S55.6315.40        I           55.635.400
151    8-7-0            2            34           3.751.370  06/06/6s           18.963.90         I            8.963.90
152    9-9-C            2            52      00.998.161.000  01/14/63          $53.699.35         1           53.699.350
153    10-A-A            1           36          43.390.000  02/09/81         $tIO.359.04         S          101.359.040
654    63/61            3            54           2.283.600  02/05/SR           $1.073.22         6            6.073.220
tss    8-9-0            2            53       8.879.761.000   03/os/86         $28.072.41         S           26.072.410
656    89/86            3              I         21.267.200  04/10/66          827.267.20         I           27.267.200
6S7    86/ag            3              S         43.627.000  04/15/8I          $43.627.00         1           43.627.000
Isa    84/86            4             64        164.392.000  04/t0/St         $234,64S.71                    234.845.760
ss9   91/81-A           3             s4        113.814.700  05/04/66          $5*.466.22         *           51.4".220
I60    92/69-4          4            54       2.500.000.000   05/06/6       St. 103.509.16        I        1.603.509.t60
166   967/8-4           3             67      1.s54.000.000   05/13/81        5289.179.52         1          2t9.579.520
t62    94/86-FINAL      4            54         850.000.000  os0l/sJs         5371.763.47         t          371.763.470
163    too/83           3              1          3.500.000  05/13/sJ           13.500.00         t            3.500.000
664    .-13-FINAL       2                     6.015.000.000, 05/20/66       51.05.000.00,         I        *.0t5.000.000
665   8-7               2            36          32.230.000   05/26/81         546.425.13         I           46.425. S30
tuO    s9/al-FINAL      4             t          53.720.000   05/29/6          553.7o0.00         6           53.730. 00
10,   WsIs-FMAL         4              6         39.425.000  05/2868/          t39.425.00         w           39.425.000
t68    £t-1I-I4         2            5t         5".000.00o   0O/60/a,         5164.145.41         I          1t4.t45.470
166    S04/4t           3              I        121.960.700  06/60/6st        5126.90.70          6          626.960.700
170    603/56           2            54         46S.283.970   06/12/61        $194.324.97         t          194.324.970
s*     3*.t              6             6         14.692.00    06/lO/al         114. 0t.00         t           14.192.000



Attachment 3
Pal-t 8 of 13 paies
t 0a   0  8 AN t
RtPORl IlD. C1R18 670431                                   lOAN  OifPANNNI                                         U  'lMM KE    0:41 P14
Rt: DAIL . t0o30/;e                             PAlO W6ft8AWALS fOR LOAN   62160 101                              P&G  NO        b
--CUPRINCY Of gxpENDlITiB--  V&S.                              C-StsalU l'   5*IUSESO---
f*1A     A'l:lCAl6C14      CA1ltMa   CODE                A*0.1NT    0if 41   EPAW DOLIAR 6 EWIV.     CODE               A6M3JU
172    4b/l9-FINAI       4              6           9.000.00)  046/46             b,.000.00          I             0.000.000
713    B -12-FltJAt.     2              t          83.412.00   0611/86           183.412.00          *            ".4S2.000
t74    9*0/O-A           4              S.        022.678.1100  061/86tf        $122.*17.80          I           222.676.00
675      - -7-- t"L      a              6         248.00.000  "MIS/at           S245B.90.00          6           248..00.000
176    8-14-A            2            36           33.000.000  06124/86          861. 70.00          ,            65.670.00
677    totIJ8-A          4                       610.000.000  06/60/6           $170.000.00          *           670.000.000
t70    107/8a            3              $           3.300.000  0/624/86           $3.5000            6             3.100.000
679    b-8-0             2              t          40.046.300   06/30/82         u40.84s.30          t            4.040.300
tioo    s--C             2              t          71. 00. 00  0170t00/8          79.U60.t10         I            79.000. t0
tat    87/86-6           3             i7       6.328.000.000   07/07/as        5242.330.08          t           242.3S0.060
682    3-9-1             2            83          729.274.000  07/60/86           $3.675.159         *             3.671.190
683    96/81-tbe         4              6          35.320.000.  078/4/a           805.320.00         6            88.320.000
684    602/86-A          3             67         225.950.000  01/27/86          630.s90 .611        6            38.006.190
tab    8-6I-f I AL       2              6          86.246.000  071/4/56          $81,246.00          6            Q6.24o.000
l6e   614/SI             3              6           3.500.000  07,64/6l           13,100.00          6             3.500.000
so7 *      8-5-FIAL      2                  ,    26.755.0o0   01/24/86          1236.765.00          6           221.765.000
8s   6- t9-F MAIN        2              t         615.040.000  0/72t/06         $176.040.00          *           675.040.000
* I  6l09    8-20-FINAL        3             U4         625.000.000  01/23/86         $337.699.s5          t          331.609.550
690    8-II-F ItItA      2            5t    * t3.290.000  07/30/al               $21.7S5.09          6            21.758.090
O     ,tI   96181-ftFIAI       3             54         403.28.520   07/21/8$         t165.364.77           t          *65.304.770
692    100/81-A          4            36          06.682.400  07/30/a8          S664.030.17          6           664.030.170
683    81/t6-C           3             17       6.380.000.000  07/30106         8238.1S4.22          I           238.654.220
194    8-64-tItios.      2            36          292.000.000  08/05/86         $632.341.20          t           532.346.200
ub5   87/0t-0            3             t7       2.172.000.000  01/03/86         $473.446.10                      473.441.500
l9t9    116/86           4            i4            6.05S.000  08/25/86          $8.605.00           1             6.650.000
697    87/83-FlINAL      3            61          792.000.000   04671/9a        $136.013.26          6           136.813.260
198    t02/66-a          3             61         22 5.10.000  08/34/46          *38.106.08          6            3a.106.080
I99    I02/0A-FINAL      3             ST         456.100.000  08/21/86          815.191.60          6            75.697.600
200    96/86-C           4              I           4,633.200  08136/81           $4.633.20           t            4.633.200
201    600/6l-u          4            36          264.033.400  06/02/86         $392.079.70           6          392.8t9.710
202    60/81-B          4              t         t65.474.000  0t128/81         S665.474.00           6          163.414.000
203    l2b/80.           3              4           3.800.000   09/02/86          23.500.00           6            3.500.000
204    tp6l 6 A          4              6         201.800.000  0011/81          $301800.00            6.         201.800.000
205    92/81-66          4             54         922.000.000   09/06/al        *386.1001 .9                     306.606.970
208    95/86-A           4              a         613.862.600  00/171/6         1163.862.60           t          162.862.600
207    1o0/a8-c          4              6          38.76.a800  09/)1/86          130.701.00         53         0.308.667.000
208    Of/86-fle4i.     4             29         123.487.700  09/23/86          $21.364.65           6           26.364.650
2016    g7)/81-A         3              6         213.000.OCO   09/l7/86        $293.000.00         53        48.638.000.000
J10    06/8 I-fINAL      3             94          21.420.000   10/06/st          t9St75.22           6            9.575.320
211    127!81            3              t           3. 00. OG    60/0081o         S3.500.00           1            3.800.000
212    sO$/al-0          4              6         435.264.200   60/64/86        1435.264.20 a                    43S.264.200
2t3    106/8l-*          4              t         726.480.000    O/614/86       8726.480.00           6          726.480.000
204    S4/79-K           3              2       5.062.500.o00    60/21/al       1535.487.76           6          135.487.760



Mttachueat 3
Page 9 of 13 pages
WO R L OUA NK
REPOA1 tO: Ct10R87O(ab                                     LOAN DEPARININV                                       RUM TINE : 8:41 PM
RUN OATE : 10/30/85                            PAID WITHDRAWALS FOR LOAN    12780 16T                           PAGE NO        0
--CURRtdNCV Of EXPENDITURE-- VALUE                            ---CURRENCY OtSBURSEO---
W/A      APPLICATION       CATEGORY   cooE               AM"UNr   OATi  - 05PAW DOLLAR 3UIV.        COOS               AMOUNT
2a5    123/St-FINAL      a             I          49o.000.o00   to/16/a I      $7.000.00            t           197.000.000
2 V    96/81-0           4             1          23.625.000   10/20/88         523.625.00          *           23.62S.000
281.   122/88-A          a             t          138.712.000   1023101        4030.712.00          1          130.712.000
218    129/J8            s            *4  '.002.000   10/2S/                     8 3.0817.14        t            3.017.140
219    8/21-A            2            34          33,153.000  10130/8t          $60.338.4a          *           60.330.460
220    14/79-FINAL       3             2       5.002.500.000,  8/30/81         5U22.474.tS          0          132.474.160
22     810/81-FlNtAL     3             I          37.S09.000   10/21/81         537.403.00          8           37.608.000
222    135/01            3            b4          22.400.000   88/05/SI         810. 167.98         *           l0. 67.950
223    134/el            3             1           3.,00.0"   t1/04/8           $23500.O0    t                   3.500.000
224    8-9-F             2            53      24.403.600.6006    t 1/05/SI     $00.703.73           1          106.70S.730
225   tl8-0-             2             1          15t.0001.000   t1/04/08      $151.00.00           1          1t1.008.000
226    812/81-A          4             t          23J000.000   10/08/68t        823.000.00          1           23.000.000
227    133/a8            4            14         222*.41.650   18/10/Sa        Stoo.600. to        54          222. 145.050
228     - 18-FINAL       2             I          83.197.650   181/09/8         S8*307.6S           6           13.t97.650
229    B-7-F             2            36             308.930   18/24/88            5704.00          *              704.660
230    93/81-A           4            54         500.000.000   82/02/al        5226.108.8           t          22.t 01.110
231    808/0I -A         4            17         975.000.000   82/09/08        6183.533.88          t          173.533.860
232    92/81-FINAL       4            54         380.000.000   82/08/68 I170.917.1                  1          170.917. 1to
'-~  233    120/81-FtNAL        3             I         844.S55.000   0108/8l         $144.S5S.00          1          144.15S.000
o     234    117/81-11          3             1         3564,86.000   S2/81/38        S3ff.844.00    t                316.086.000
235    18-A-A            I            17         492,3..700   12/21/Il          SSI57.t87           I           6.S78.170
236    tO/aBI-C         4             t          40.720.000   12/23/81 *40.720.00                  1           40.720.000
237    t4O/al 6 841/st  4             54         330.07S.020   08/Il/8a        8146.277.43          8          846.277.430
238    839/06            3             8           3.500.000  t822/51            $3.500e00,                      3.900.000
239    tWa2/8-FINAL      4             1          92.000.000   01/118/2         t92.000.00          t           92.000.000
240    187/8t-c          3             1         387.450.250  Offt8/82         $387.450.2S          1          317.450.250
241    142/SI            3             t           3.261.000  Ot8/2/02           *3.267.00          i            3.267.000
242    11S/81-A          3                       s 0oo.Oo.OOO   01/81/12        8a0.000.00          1          11s0.000.000
243    93/68-FINtAL      4            54          08.000.000  08/13/82          829.818.36          *           29.688.360
244     21/851-FINAL     3             1         316.219.000  0o1/8W3          1316.219.00          a          3t6.2ts.000
245    REPAVYMNT W/A%227 4            54         222. 14S.850   II/10/81        S94.029.90          t           94.029.900
246    REFUND W/A 227   4             54         222.14S.650   08/tO/81        8100.090.11-       54           222.145.650-
247   RPEEfWM  W/A 209   3            S3      48.838.000.000  09/87/88         52tt1.5. 60-       53        48.t3G.000.00 -
248    REPAYMENT V/4209 3             53      40.138.000.000  09/17/88         9205.410.71          8          205.480.710
249    01fUkU V/A 207   4             13       8.30, H57.000  09/I7/8*          $36.519.42-       S3         8.300.861.000-
250    REPAYMEMI W/A207 4             63       8.300.867.000  09/17/8t          835.418.96          I           35.451.960
252    8/22-FItAL        2            42    1t9.520.000.000   01/28/82          19S.S01.40          1           95.508.400
233    8-23              3            54         842.000.000  01/29/82          564.062.14                      6 81.062.140
264    124/l1            3             t          54.830.00D   02/03/82         S54.830.00          8           S4.830.000
25S    25.28.278         2            84       2.012.383.180  02/17/42       $2.874.a33.*4          8        2.374.033.140
256    tl1/3t            3             I         fll.793.000  02/10/02         81t8-.795.00         I          888.795.000
25?    6-7 a            2             23           1.170.000  02/23/82           $2.89.77         *             2.809.770
2A8    1371/8-A          3            11         247.678.500  02/23/82          $4t,34t.1d          6           4*.34t.760



At tachluent 3
Page lOof 13 pages
REtOIII IO: C1114*17010:11                             LOAN  5PA06Ei                                        RUN TIE      :41 PM
RUH DATE : 10/31/10                          PAIO VtIT6UAALS fose LOAN  637o0 cGt                          PAtE NO 
--CUURMNCV Of EXPENDITUf--  VALUE                           ---CURENCY DISBURSED---
./A      APPLICATION     CAIEGOIS   CODE              AMIWET   SATE    DEPOV DOLLAR EQUIV.    CODE               AMOUNT
259    tOD/SI-C         4            67      3.4t2.100.000  02/23/a2        *569.604.4          1          "9.604.460
260    63-A             I           36          10.000.000  03123/82         5681. 605.00       I            8.1101.000
266  $60/81-0           4            6          40.00.000   63120/2          $40.000.00         i           40.000.000
262    07-61            2           36              47.600  04/06182            s58.01         27              227.90
263   0/2*-FIAL .       2           36          27.302.000  04/08/02         548.148.00        27          12S.004.800
264    626/11S-FINAl    4            6          00o.05i4.0    @4/16/02       640.023.63       40           150.727.010
265    046-4(A)         4             6         69.So.W0   04/23/02          $66.0000           6           19S.800.000
266    146-8(A)         4           54    b     76.47.000  04/22/02         $241.355.24         6          246.25S.240
2b7   Is0;s0..          4            I          432.00.000  04/20/83         S42.50.00          *           42.500.000
260    95-SI-fINAL      4            I          12.651.400  06/64/32         *12.456.00         i           t2.65e.400
269    25.26.27U        2            t       2.874.833.t40  00504i82      32.814.633.14-        t        2.014.033.140-
270    14-A FINAL       I           61          24.064.W60   05/25/03         S4.013.60         1            4.013.tO0
271    137/8s FINAL     3            e7        347.978.500  06/00/82         S311.03.45         I           30.093.450
272    IGO/Ik fINAL     4           67         407.500.000  06/06/82         *78.521.30         0           76.525.380
273    Irl/Ba-E         3            I          12.610.000  06/01/02 *23.619.00                 e           12.GIS.000
214    641/82-fIuAL     3           ii        joo.0oo.ooo  07/13/82         $111.406.77         *           sts.406.770
2715    $ss/9          3             I          63.000.000  07/08/63         $53.000.00         0           53.000.000
276    6s9/al           a            I         360.000.00, 01/08/82         6360.000.00         6          360.000.000
271    REFUNU VA 262    2           36              41.600  04OS/1/2             U8.0-         27              227.390-
2110   6PAYN4NI VA 63 2a            36              47.600  GOMM-                s8.07          *               85.070
279    (6*UND VA 263   2            36          27.302.00   04/06/02        U0.48.00-         27          29.054.:00-
2* 0   REPAYVI:&T MA 263 2          36          27.39a.0o0  04/00/82         840.I48.00 C                   48.14<.000
221   REFUNO WA 264    4             I          00.454.000  04/65/813        *0.923.63-        60          I59.727.070-
282    NEPAYNNT WA 264 4             t          80.054.000  04/15/02         U 0.614.00                    00.054.000
283    02a/86 FINAL     4            6         345.0 o.000  01/23302        5345.000.00         6          34151.000.000
2a4    146-A-8          4            $         224.260.150   0/02/3/2       $224.250:75         1          224.250.750
205    t46-1-0          4           54         567.024.00   08/23/02        $231.622.22         t          231.522.220
206    IS-A-#IaAL       $           67          94.143.400  09/60/02        $*6.351.47          *           0.3395.470
207    656/82-fINAL    4             6          3S.00O.000  09/09/812        $36.000.00                    3a5,000.000
208   13/SBiflUAL      3             I         611.00.64U0   60/36/82       *616.8001a4         I          4t6.10.5410
2289    646 0-C         4           54          91.104.600  09/23/83        $3509.20.87         6          369.3110.670
290   6-24-FINAL.-     2             i         6351.00.00%  00/21/62        $I35.004.pa        I. 1*635.000.000
291   .5./02            4            14         60.Sto.50.001  00/082        *07.0to 4!         I   .       97.871.420
292    146-8-0          4           54         005.716.710   60/20/p2       S215.739.6t         6          271.730.620
293   8-7 filUAL.       2           36           3.525.460   60/04/82         *1.90.0,  S            t11.03.060
294   66-A-6-2-f`gu.L   I           21          04.435.000   61/05/82        630.163.11         6           30.64a .970
295    16A-t tAL        I           27          40.035.00    tt6/05/a        *14. Us 8.0                    64. Us.6too
296    0/29             2             6         18.000000 C  0/09/02        *10.000.00         I           *.00.000
291    1)8/86 FINAL     3             i         46.135.000   00160/02        *468.35.00         6           46.135.000
298    too/Gl FINAL     3             6        362a.4S.w   6 60/09/82       1262.245.00         1          362.241.000
209    616/82           3            64         A2.41 .000   62/02/02       8632.6n4.39 2                    6 2.414.290
300    j-7-i            2           36             042.640  12109/12          *6.535.64         6            11.36.640
S0o.   UK-A             a           64   .    473.12.000  02/23/82          507.5t 7.00         0          191.951.80



Attachment 3
Page 11 of 13 pages
W OR LO  8 A NK
REPORT 10: CTRORI7O(E)                                   LOAN  OEPARTMENT                                    RUN TIE    8: 41 PI*
RUN DATE: 10/30/85                            PAID WITHDRAWALS FOR LOAN   22760 LQT                          PAGE N        a
--CURRENCY OF EXPENDITURE-- VALUE                           --- CURRENCY OISBURSEO---
V/A      APPLICATION      CATEGORY   COOE              AMOUt   0AEr      REPAY Doo.a tCV.    COE                        t
302    t50-FINAL        3            54         948.77S.000  03/06/83        6404.595.3W         t          404.595.310
303    8/26-FtNAL       3            17         898.561.000  02/02/83        SSI9.408.48         1          129.408.480
304    122/81-FINAL     3             t         553.286.000  01/3$/83        SSS3.288.00         1          553.288.000
305   *15/81-FINAL      3             I          20.000.000  02/23/83         S20.00O.00                     20.000.000
306   1i-A FINAL        t            47          56.000.008  e 128/83          s8o.77.57         6            8.177.570
307    8/31-FtNAL       2            36         141.000.OW   03146/63        9211.993.S0                    a 2t1.993.S00
308    163/82-A         4             t          70.00o.0co  03/14/83         170.000.00         *           70.000.000
309    B-9-0            2            83       2.200.900.000  03/16/83          49.3s9.9          *            9.310.920
310    a-a-6     a                    1          is.00.64l 0   03/ts/83        1s.1,00.80        i           is.600.o00
311    8/34             2             1           9.a4.1T0  03/124/63          St.60.78                       9.866.760
312   ON 16S/82-fINAL  t             21         10.00O.000  03/28/83         S36.664.06         t364.06
3t3    463/82-FINAL     4             1          60.000.000  03/28/63         S60. 0oQ.OO                    60.o.000o
314    32/8-FINAL       2            53      16.060.000.000  03/3/83          57001.41           6           67.000.410
3tS    33/8-FINAL       2            53      67.63.000.000  0410623         1262.700.1 t                  "2 2700. ttO
316    8/30-FINAL       2            53      25.740.000.000  04/08f/3        $106.401.771                   10t.404.170
347    AoJUST tfA249/SQ 4             1           1.067.460  09187/81          $1.063.46         *            1.067.460
328    ADOiST VA 247/48 3             1          4.464.G90   091/761           $8.94.39          1            0.664.990
3tg    AOJUJST W/A 248   4            1          6.058.250   ti/0/81           $S6.056.25        t            3 -.58.250
320    ADJUST VA 282    4             1             89.630  04/15182              169.63         6               69.630
322    8/3S             2                         1.187.1tO  0D/23/3           $1.lR?.8I           *           .187.810
t     322   Oa  I88/83-A      4            2t         242.126.000  05/29/83         S81.3S4.00         I           Bt.354.060
3.33   8-36             2             I          9.862.610  09/15/83           19.862.66         *           9.862.610
324    t13/8t-A         2             t          36.840.00   10/07/83         136.840.00                     26.640.000
325   826 Isa/83-8      4            27        264.9t0.S00   t/14/83         S".345. 19                    95.345.890
326    8-8-FINAL        2             1          1S5.00.800   #2/09/83        1s6.too.60         2            S.100.800
327    8-9-2            2            53       1.274.770.000  01/09/84          s5.898.5f         *            5.696.StO
328   8a4 168/13-C      4            2?        562.530.500  01/06/84        S179.4S2.74          t          179.4S2.740
329    270/63           4            27         40.809.860  02/40/84          $12.677.02         1           02.877.020
330    171/84           4            27         75.35.140  03/19/84           $25.581.96         t          2S.581.960
332    814 2a8/83-0     4            27         40,702.500  06/28/84          612.09.98                      13.096.980
332    173/84-A         4            54       t.445. 76.000  08/0084         1496.536.39         t         496.536.390
333    146-A-FINAL      4             t          14.950.25O 08/20/84          St4950.S5                      14.9S0.250
334    146-al-FtNAL     4            54         t44.tt9.7S0   08/to/84        549.573*39         t          49.573.390
32s    8/37             2             t          10.765.090  09/3/64         1$O.SJ3.t4        53       2.666.074.000
338   8/38              I             1          8.768.710  09/19/84           S8.768.1t         i            8.768.720
337    t73/a4-8         4            54        326.282.000  09/27/84         SOS.746.88                    toS 746 81|
338    am1 tos/93-E     4            27          $4.041.770   6I/05/84        112.931.18                     i 2.932.730
332    273/84-FINAL     4            54       1.277.93s.co'    t t/02/114     423.854.21         t          423.654.240
340    8-39             2             2          10.393.720   12/18/84        SS0.392372         *           1S.393.720
34t   8/44-A            2            54        660.000.000  03/06/85         16937183.2a         t          193.378.260
342    a/43-A           2            54       t.4$5.619.000  03/06/35        1426.510.41         I          426.540.110
323    aS - i-I NAL     2            34         157.420.000  03/25/85         148,515.8I2                    4 4.525.320
344   40 FIflNL         2            60        6i*0.182.930  03/29/35        $252.2.;0.36                   256.203.3J0



.Attach_ ot 3
P.QS4  12 of 13 patS
b a a I a b A u C
Ol-)U11'. LjI'LS$IOI                                       aN  VIPA91611JI                                    UUt IME 6I    I "+
.d4 hAlt : aIt30/ft.                          PS V .WALUatb 102 LOAN   12760 EST                              IAGI Co
..  .......... .......     . .. . .
*- -CUkUERf   OF *aPID.OIURE-* - VAlUE                       ---CUBBRRCV DISBUMS10--.
b/a      LAPLIC&AUIW      CAl&tICI   C ot              £MZU1   PATE    SEPAW 01LAv4 E0JIV.    COOt                  Uo* Jl
-----------          ..    . . .  ---              .. ..    -----,_  , _     ,, _      _ ,_ ... . . . . . . . .  --- _-.-.-_-
341    50/6-A           2            54         123.36.680  04/04/85          6233.t1.02          1          223. 1to.020
346    1-42-9 1UAa      a            26          29.361.000  04/ta/SI          13S.513.44                     3 51.563.440
341    4)/a-A           3            3?         304.650.O00  04ft6/18          W51,14.n16         1    ,      87.174.1tO
348    8-es-frimi       2            as           *.*0.00    04/es6/e           *3.:i9.20         I            3.025.a00
349   P1. off. V1343   a             14             336.060  03/151Se              695.4-         *                59.480-
350    40/B-A           a63                   8.3*  .152.O0  04/31/85          438.666.04         1           23.566.040
28    50/0-8            2            64         178.646.ow   05/03/05         $145.8119.45        I           24S.wl*.450
252    49/8-A           3            36         354.635.500  051 o/s          6440.451.25         I          440.467.290
393    RVEVCSAL W/A 33b 3             I          IO.105.00  09J/JSo        . $t0.053.14-        53         2.&66.074.000-
364    1EINSTAI VIA 335 2             6          00.718."D0  00/S/84           SSD.75.09           i           10.185.090
355    9-43-FtM&L                    6 a4        89.000.o00    051/3/&S        622.18S.20          *           2..116.300
356    50/b-C           2            64       1.41,6.0I.S26  06/st/6S        6466.486.is          1.         461.400.950
as7    49/s-            2            36       1.247.491.20W  06/04/81       61.611.680.04          4        l.bSe.660.040
358    46/8-0           a            63      21.490.024.0o0   06/03/8S        1141.061.07          I          14t.065.070
3i*9   50/8-0           a            64         350.464.640  06/0/o0s         6st11.249.9          1          117.349.960
360    60/18-           a            54         104.400.000  04 6/1&5        $*9.020.IS            S          259.820.1tO
361    50/S-I           a            64         651.434.010  06/20/88         5219.001.32          I          219.063.220
362    49/b-C           2            a36        34.635.10    C6/34/05         6456..36.66         4I5.536.680
353    40/0-C           2            65      14.620. 131.60    06/24/85        65.8)3.s55          I           58.8)3.550
36.4   50/ii-           2            64       1.802.20. 120  06/2/6 5         659.380.64           1          1*9.300.640
365    49/S-ftSIL       2            36       a.56S0.a.000  01/08/05        53.072.024.21          I        2.012.034.220
366    48/0-0           2            63       6.264.599.00   07/08/OS          s2s.291.30          t           2a.297.380
367    10/8-FINAl       2            64         123.126.f080  01109/5         5240.9905.0                     240.090.010
360    48/8-1           2            53                       07./5I.06 .,00D  01o/15  869.t47.42  *           69.14t.42D
369   4 1/B-A           I                                     10/2S/85                                         7,5.o
37-0   47/B88           2                                         55787750
371   5/41-5            2                                     I I /I2J85                                      396,988.98o
373   48/u-cG           2                                     12/27/as                                        69,107.500
314   47/s-C.           2                                     12/30/85                                          49178.980
37S   47/B-Ne           7                                      188                                             14.138.270
376   47/8-1)           2                     ..              013/39271 .160
728946p_
Total Uitidrawals    48,643,667.790



-~~~~~~~~~~~
P"   S 3 of 13 y
:8,u .1 ...                                                0 , UlW  02/0'4/86  2u15 Ph
,^1 u.w  U.I  tefi.t ,L'".  I.;.,;.4d/.;tEbi,  12760J EGT   CAT/LOG t      A/R C        2
~~ i;u~~~~PTXi~~~J                     !4~IALANC      OSLRE
I.u.,;4/ClEDIT TOTAL US$  1.356.332.21  4G43.?2.
pUtL    rlq$Y    4Tt,J IIPLN U41'L DECE.1ER 31,11f           0                   §.oQ
'J,It L.JLA Ui4,iL-t .(.ED                              t1750.000.00              0.00
eACR' ,i, C,F ritui:CT   .                        29t939.55       770.60.45
L. i oritua:cT                           4469#719.43- 17,819,719.43
ii$;,-^t: t* IM  U OF    m(oJECT             3,662,952.33  10.337,047.67
IEt.iRTS tG ArD Of    PROJECT                    483,159.76  19,716,340.24
I4 bD i 1et * ¢,/ht . ;1 JNbU t; *02/04/86  2%1t~ I'M
A;ril,i  r '  lali ;ii  iJj;.a4,I::   r C1274315 EViT   CAT/LOG C       3  A/a C        I
fXlidl tI.i; Z.  1 .1 i~LLe iU;iZ I
It,%-VIi4: v"
puWO4SL: I4Iiii              AAL AhOUWT IN US$    50.000.000                    .
,,,..:  VI .v;iV'          a:t.I. AflOUS4f DISBURSED   67.79 4#1:  ad   C
r.-1:l1vt.: . }/ E-'j; .'-,   ;L iNDIS9. CASEfS                                       6",roe
;     ;4 ; -3,tuijiluT CACvCELLED           0.00
;    i.; *a t            tl  tEksaTr BALANCE          1*356,332.21
u w. i.tJUIsVi We.    ---   -- i (tsL FUNDS-  ---------VREE FUNDS- -COhMI4TTb rUHDS-
i!; t'.4I  .tiL ;tniit.k  I,n,3iJet3sl.1     1. 356.3Z2;21+
0.00+~~~.Qi
0. Wmr
WLVi :. IL)               0.0+t )+0+                               '  ; 
0.00?6
L a/t i .Th) 11 1b}4).00+                    0.00+                   0.00+w
0.0Q+1i
*. .,; ;,,i   ~~,4  o3.o ".oo                             .       . 0*0w
V     ,                   ~~~~~~~~0.4)0+1)
/
., ;1., .;
BESt.CAPY AVAIAI.E
-114 -



Attachment 4
Page 1 of 2 Rages
Institutional Performance.
- 115 -



Page 2 of 2 pages
~~~~.W   _ - * cam.  _ FbitomL
r.an.a. thfA sucl c4it f.                          P
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ilausi.,.t   la ljacrijetuc  *st.Ib Littlmtu t on 14PO    fae          x                       3        aaLi          trblnfs
Ui c aa "arMs
.t  jI ...~i~ i.,    u...bI                                                                    .,whv       ae......
£Cert~iticti  a~P  ww. glAisvgbIbuc   nISC8tm 
caa%cru%:ci-ing ei itasaUl dait4sta newk  4a sC   's fdCam.sfXei,           e                                                       i
rcUS.IM.WA LhM ' LO vl& 4AAW f&Q C*a46.                                                                        ttate
If ti.i..at.l.,.   Le ,C                    ~uC..                           X
l C  ci1i;.r.i u&  agxt .d..ut jn  uetablLeI,uauat ttt    MSUe f hta.        X Ki $ t    9  
e oav. t .'u                                                                                                              ;Z - !noaLLtiaansrh   akSC   am
Corttrittio   JS l 681 t9Stitt 4 4t"   ObdAibSI                                           X          . TOoh .      tatW  C -   
*..'J.Lj4d   4 ..flilpliug Vt giw VvsetabLa Mguodi.g Uuit of tha            X                              Snablishmcu of 42 platic
!  ;4ris;ura1 U.a.w.'u, Ltietitage (MU).                                   .tam t                                  iua,a  & 4 £8cu.-t
l                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proo  tit. gte   hoaes
x  s.qvippittg of the Seod Urtificatioa.06pars_,t,                                  .       *       a  et tt"iiat uait
X  .Mwc.                                       .      .  .                   .      b;u~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wa   at t$CbliSl    int 1964
0                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by ehe Cntrsl Ad"i-
saatiusfo eofeds (CSI,
WQA), with tbe .latomwo.
L.% kLia,&   C, -iit a& Agriculaucal DovelgpewuLt Laa4in4 Unit                                                o f    A.^AaD Atrojeiot
!I ;;ui  .Att  t claw IwgtiO*  utic.                              X
| C..r,.Iu.tj..a  ..   W ,;orvU-i. pr.Jcu4  iu%, pudckiu; pacd ki dLtb l      X
...- .it.*. uv ,c&v.ALuv. coalorativa nA coap..nivo pArtly
! * .tat& pd..k J utvuw t;lniaW vtctSUu4a .a attt,Ji facilitLeJ x
*    h,f Id-'.A.~   .pocc Co.                                                                          C
*1  wt  r   ..;t*4   v.Li..cdDle gra3ial; a*u4 pkial; sca&in cAcunA an4                          Y               lthee the Latntvutw
vtofthe piroject IO."
J  .IJ.Lh  * .. ... ¢ .  thy Nil t;t                                                 .3   is t~i~  letr tbi
...t,a$r.t.JU,4o- .W   catres a4d traisaport fatcligis  ot fog
116 -           lBEST-COPY AVAII LE



Page 1 of 3 pages
Private Subprojects for Companies & Fars
Financed by Subloans
Through Bank Misr.
- 117 -



Atcachment 5
Private Subprojects for Companies £ Farms                       Page 2 of 3 pages
Finanaaced by Subloans
Through Bank Hiar.
Cithdrawals      Local Equivalent
Company                                Subprojects                       from         of withdrawals       Interest
the loans       from the loan          rate
US $               EL                 I
Tracol Co. for Commerce           Establishment of Cold Store               2.262.000           1.635,000             10
(2700 Ton Capacity) & lce factory.
Tambo Co.                         Packing Vegetables &.Drying Onions.         173.000             122.000             10
Al-Fayrouz Farm                   Establishment of a horticultural             13.000               9,000             10
Farm.
Aladia Farm                       Grading and Packing Vegetables              171.000             121 iO06
(25 Tons/year.)
Alex Co. for Foods                Broilers (2.4 mill/year) & a feed         1.609,000           1,250,000             6
mill (8 Tons/hour)
Ali kida Farm                     Production of 15 mill eggs/year             857,000             720.000             6
Porc-Said Co. for Poultry         Production of 43 mill eggs,               2,724,000          2,066,000              6
600,000 broilers/year & a
feed mil1 (10 Tons/hour)
_ _ _.__ ___       __ _ _ _ _      .                                                            _________I



AtLachwnt S
Private Subrpoicts for C.ipanies & rairs                      Page 3 of 3 pages
finananced by Subloans
Througlb Bantk Hisr.
(Cant.)
Withdrau'als      Local Equivalocnr
( . ptiral.v                     -       Sulbpto; ctia                      from          of withdrawal&s       Ir.Ert st
the loans        from the loan           rate
I;SS  .El                               S
Misr Co. for Poultry                Production of 15 mill eggs/year              508,000              411,000               L
Mlisr Co. for Poultry               Production of 24 mill eggs/year             1,026,000             862,000               6
Aluatansiya Co.                     Production of Pies & Pastery                  238,000             200,000              11
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fayoou  Food Security ('o.          Production of 30 mill eggs/year            1.900,000            1.574,000               6
Asy Ayyad Co.                       Proluction of 15 million eggs a             1,240,000           1,040,0oO               6
a feed will (24 Tons/hoUr)
Agtra Co. for Packing              Production of tacking Materials             2,520,000            2,118,000              11
IJhiAe llRase Farin                 Cultivation of 50 Fed. of Grapes               12,000.               8,000        . .  lo..
£ 20 fed. Other Horticultural Crops
Al-Shorouk Co. for poultry          Production of 540,000 kroilers/year           130.000              '09,000              6
TOTAL                       15,383,000           12,246,000



Attachuat 6
Page 1 of 3 pagfts
Study Tours b Training Courses
for NSPC Staff.
120 -



( Attachment No. 6 )
Page 2 of 3 pages
Study Tours & Training Courses                          a   2 o
Outside the Country..
Period
No.            Trainees' Names              The Country                 of  ield                         of trainig
oftraininmg                       oiiii
1     Eng: Nagi El Sawy Hohamed         California U.S.A.       Operation & Maintenance.Factories   19/5 - 22/7/1979
for Melon's.Seed Extraction line.
th
2      tnB: Ade  Hussein                Greece                  To attend the 27-t Conference on    13 - 22/9/1979
Bee Keeping
3      Eng: Mohamed llussain            U.S.A.                  Operation & Maintenance, of
NMobamed Otlman                                     Melon's Seed Extraction line in    19/5 - 22/7/1979
______________________      some   factories.
4      Eng: Moh3med Abou Zeid           England                 Agricultural Machinery
Caweesh                                             (Field Application & Tractors       15/7   24/81979
maintenance)
5      En:g Fouad El Hasbad           England                  Training Center of Hassey           6 weeks course
Ferguson Company (Field                    From:-
Application & Tractor's              IS July 1979
_______ ____________________________ ______________________ maintenance)
6 __ ng: F'wsd El Hashid               France                   A visit to C.M.D. Factories.
18 - 27/10/1979
7      LEn- Essmat Hetw.lly           West Cermaay              Study Tour                          13/8  -  30/8/1979



( Attacmuent No. 6 )
Study Torb. a Trainilig Courses                            raie 3 of 3 j-0es.
outuiJe tile Country
Fielid                           Period
oftraining
N   lgaincuQ' t4waati         The Country                    of training                         or visit
i      Istg: ~kHaEt .ld 5alaiall Li lin    Belgium, flhevco         Combine (Instaliag& Maintenance)  Tow w4ae&sFruM;-
El lly                                                a  Balers                              24/2/1980
g      Eng: El Say:d bWuwad               England                   Seed Production
n.twavay                                                                                      22/5 - 5/8/1978
.11    Hr.  Salti El Sayed                U.S.A.                   Middle manament                        24/2  -  20/5/1979
AUda) lali.
i      11    ,Fag: AhmswJ sbo.s El ladle          U.S.A.                   Middle Managment                      2412  -  20/5/1979
12    Erte lb6ssein Shab n a              U.S.A. A Vrance           Senior Ianameat
13  Eng;: tHulmd to. ElI                  U.S.A.          Engliab Language (;Peace                       15/7  -  8/8/1984
granting wait)
I'     bst AIdfal El Iltak,od,            West Germany              Fertilization                         20/7  -  11/8/85
Ebrubetm Youset               (runich)



Attachaent No. 7
Page one of three pages.
Summary of Conclusions
of the Final Report of "ULG"
on
The Progress at .Iubariya
Between November, 1977 & February,1981.
- 123 -



Accac*mftlt 1
Page 2 of
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS
1   Tthis project has inade substaritial progres.s in the last three years,
particularly during 1980. hlie overall objective of increasing
production from within Egypt and reducing the need for foreign
imports has begun to be actiieved.
2.   In view of the amount of nmoney already expended, it is strongly
recotmiended that the necessary finance to complete the rest of
NSPC's planned development is niade available and the works completed
as soon as possible.
3.   The overall structure for thte Company's management is logical.  But
it should be rcogrnised that Nuba Seed will be undertaking thie work
of three large production companies:
-  farm procuction on 25,000 feddans,
-  vegetable seeu processing, handling and ;arket1ng,
potato seed grading, handling, marketing and storage,
and two large service companies:
,.machinery repair and parts depot,
buildings and services for company and villages.
It is a very big andertaking and each of these divisions requires a
strong incependent manager capable of taking all thte day to day
decisions.
4.   Responsibilities of these managers should be defined and authority
clearly delegated to them. As the Comapny grows larger the Chairman
cannot be consulted on every decision. In particular the management
of the service companies needs to be strengthened. If necessary
expatriates stiould be considered.
5.  More permanent labour is urgently required and at least 50 permanent
houses should be erected on eacih farm together with a camp for
casual workers.
,.  {here are difficult technical problems in crop production, but all
of these can be overcome by good tnanagenent and crop yields have
been steaaily imtproving.
7.  Progress with mechanis.iLon is disappointing.  lhe area of land
cropped is still less than half the total available.  Machines are
not being well maintained and the workshop and spare parts stores
are niot effective. Unless firm steps are taken to improve the
situation, the whole project will fail through lack of machines.
NtPC do not yet have these skills and outside help is essential.
- 124 -



Pate .3 4jf 3 paces
i.  T1le fol.low itij SuggesyOstiur hve  v btIIt mudle ruirttlrII III tir t   it III( 1  'I
Nuba Seed CwUpany.
d) Ve¶ebable t   seedrf;)t L urnt r .uuld publtbI iIs} tLeiatu *tIqtl*djI  It II It
seed.-inspection and curtitiiaLion, and uescripOiuv. uf variettl%.
Nubal.Seed should work to .hOtse standlards.
b) The rotation and isolation tactors agreed by tOnew' I.tooaiuy st}Juuli
be more strictly followt.
C) Land. Should be divided lnto two cldssificatiunis:
i)   suitable for cash orupj rotation,
ii) *requiring lmprovunient witih p lusetvr cruols Ueltcrv  nlf: fJtJIu. m'4,
..cash crocs.
d) A 10"year plan should be used tor bringing land in Class (1i) up
to Class (i).
e) Thte..Company should identitfy a limited range of crops wthirh grow
succ.gssfully at Nubarlya. The rest should be disconitiuedJ.
f) Each farm should then specialise in producing a few ut ttw,
selected species (e.g. Farm 1 miglit speclalise in sweet melun,
Farm 2 in onions, Farm . in cauliflower, etc.).
g) No f4rm should grow tomatoes as well as potatoes.
h) Some'seec contracts should be 'inae with outside growers, elits*
on their own farms or on lana supplieo by NSPC. These
contractors woula beconue specialist prodlucers of particulsr
crops, grown under the direction ot NSPC.
) Methods of irrigation neef Lo be stuaied furthter, drid experl:.ta.ts,
carried out so that use of water cadl be 'etter conitrolled.
k) A progranue of weed control should be developed with a rtputatjle
supplier of chemicals.
1) A covered workshop should   toe ompleteu and bt fNul) equippea wi th
basic tools as soon as possible. A spare parts control anra
procurement system must be implementec. '
m) A seeds processing factory shoul be procured on a turnkey
basis.  ULG have recommenced one supplier from the tenders
recently received.
it) Method of supply of foundation 4nd aasic seed is not yet
settled.  NSPC should be in a position to buy potato and
vegetable seeds directly from overseas suJppliers. Ar, agreetfi..nt
could be made to obtain assistance with breeding anid develop,,ent.
in return for NSPC contracting Lu buy seeos for an agreeti perl;ii
from a selected supolier.
a) All the necessary equipment for growing ana araain9 W!UOO tu,'s ur
potatpes should be orocurea and plans for th'e erecti.,n ot a ctohj
store at Nubariya should be put in hana.  it is recummentide  LdI.
the potatoes are handled in I run Boxes.
p) The production of larqe quantities of potatoes will substarit iai.1
increase the demand for tractors avid trailers wnich shoml(i oe
procured now. Rough terrain forklift trucks will als5j bte t-t:LI
to handle boxes or bags stackeo on pallets.
q) Specialist equipment for row croo tarming - nirruw <*loftjiI
tractors and bed making equipment are still tieedeti it 1:1':cehtt'   1
crop production is to be further Imoroved.
BEST. COPY AVLABLE
- 1^ -



Page I of 2 gages
Organizational Chart
For Nubaseed Ccmpany.
- 126 -



SOMMPA SEU  PUCltc COeW.                                 4  -   -I
OS4h32&t TST U.
__________n             )    _   _   _ _    
I-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Z
XAjf~a              J II
BEsr.   Y AVAI.,BLE



Page 1 of 4 pages
Letters of Agreement
Between IDA & che Government
- 128 -



AttacmCent V
Page 2 of 4 pages
Tht 16' sit;UV & Zst    / i818 H Sitret. N.W.. Waseungion, O C. 0433, U-AS. * eliennmoe: (2Q02) 41234 ,bC`atM  INTAMPAC'
June 5, 1978
Mr. Samr Koraies
O         Under Secretary of State for
International and Regional
p        Financial Institutions
Ministry of Economy and
Y       Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Re: Loan No. 1276 T-EGT
(Egypt Pruit and Vegetables Development-PrO ect
Dear Mr. Koralem:
I refer to your letter of January 18, 1978, requesting a
change In the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
for the above Loan. This request was to allow funds to be used for
a wider variety.of sub-projects.
After revieing the reasong for your request, and"discussing
it with Bank Misr, the Bank agrees to amend Part D (4) c.f Schedule 2
of the Loan Agreement as follows:
The words "Construction of fruit and vegetables processing,
packaging and handling facilities by private, cooperative and public
agro-industry companies" ard deleted and the words "Production, proces-
sing, packaging and hAndZing of horticultural crops and products by
private, cooperative and public companies" are substituted therefor.
If you agree, please signiy your agreement by signing the attached
copy of this letter and returning lt to us.
In view of his interest in this matter, I am sending a copy
of this letter to Mr. M. Ali Haf£a, General Mawn"   Bank Misr.
Slclriely yours,
MartiJu J. W. W;M.
Director
Country Programs I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ARAB rEPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Authorized Representative
- 129 -



Attachment 9
Page 3 of 4 pages
..' W,.rIrI R.ie...  ¶5P"~ *~ %.... 1. 'A  Wa4htf^fl.. n f .V  I'.   A  * A@Ifrhtoflc CO'w 4   4 1'  *   :**-".
August 26, 1981
Underuecretary fto International Plasace
finistry of IconOMy
-'hairmuO
nik Misr
Development Industrial Bean
Chairman%
PrIneipal Bank for Developumet
and Agricultural Creldit
Re: Credit No.. a3O.-WT
(Agri.cultralr2 Development ftoject)
Loan no. 127EmWT
(Fruit and Vegetable Project)
Credit No. 988-BGT
(Anrlo.Indintstrai   Project)
Dear Sirs:
The Developmoet Credit Agreement (Credit No. 830-KT) for the Agri-
cultural Development Project, concluded betwan the Arab Impubtla of Igypt
and the' Interoatioal Development Aseociation (the AnoctiaS) on July 24,
1978 requires, under Part A of Shehdule 2' (txecution of Part A), the relend-
lag, throuRh the Prlcipial lak fo8r Development and AgriAmtuwal Credit
(PBDAC:). of a portion of the.proooeds of the Credit to Jlsi  Cooperatives
at the annual Interest rate of 9? and to pctvte farmes at the an&a In-
terest rate of 10?, In order to enable suhb Coopgxatives and farmers to
4±nance the purchase of agricultural machinery.
The Project Agreement (Loan No. 1276-ECT) for the Fruit and Vegetable
Project. concluded between the International Bank for Raionstzactioa and
L;velopmeant (the Bank) and Bankk Misr on June 11, 1976, raquiras Bank.Hier
(Schedule l.C) to provide the medum- and long-term Sub-project loans at
the annual rate of Interust of lO:, If such loans are provided fram the
proceeds of the Bank Loan, And of 7 l/2Z if provided from other resources
of Bank Misr.
The Project Agreement (Credit No. 988-KCT) for the Agro-industries
Project, concluded oan Hay 1, 1980 baween the Association an the Partici-
pating  eaks, namely, bankl Misr, Development Industrial Bank. and tbe PrIA-.
cipal lnk fur Development and Agricultural Credit, requires the Partici-
pating.Banks to charge an annual rate of interest of not-lees than ill on
all dub-loaus provided froe the proceeds of the Credit.
- 3O -



ACtachment 9
Page 4 of 4 pages
-2-
Lz. _Z,v*rtAt1m   o! 0tq policy of pr±--tt4     a4 ±tcu;ural 2wz8.iO,
thp Go"aeroe:t estAblihed the rate of interest of t2 p: s aswu  'or all lonnr
! ir  g O_2u..13t?A3 mach.?sry and required its fl±nimtr  of Finance to co'nsnte
the lendad. intiatution, including PB3AC, by paying to thanhe d4a ff arac
between the amt of ±Dters.t due an loaus prvided at the rate of 8% and
the  sount of such Interest thieh wul4 have accrued had such-laitnI  b'ee  pro-
vided at the rrevalent cinerc±al interest rate.
Furtbamora, in impleuutatiou of its policy of encouraging the testa-
liahsut and axpansion of ".oo4-nruri  nro                e  Gov rent establihed
a  annual rate of Interest o  6* to beA         e_lo ypublic
ebau uinst±tit6.onTae~Tclnding the Participa ting Banks, for the car.kr,ng  ut
of such projects, a dafined in Mri. XrOa'  letter of June 30, 1981.
C ian the  hig  priority vuich the Gavernieut of Eypt accosrda now to all
p?ojects related to food production and processing, the Ban"k ad the Asoocie-
t  , as indicatad co severil recent occaions, actthel SM. Ofthz.
neow  talings oa interest rate             to above, to -l0ans pravided frum the
proceeda of the Loer fo  the 7ru±t. anUd_egeLt&bke.1PToj ectaxo ofthe Cred±ts
a C1i        u                   Iu1tind  A ua *vslopqn t pj eeta.;  U  i  the
u =rr            eS iiiiiTQ  d                                   tr cmet the 4weeut
wlUi' cotinue t. revie. the interast rates: appLicable to loans provided for
sgricultral activities vith the purpose of 8mving mich rates closer to
markat rates and that the consdAerations detemining such rates vill coutinue
to be the subject of axchante of  iiws betveesn'tb 'Bank and the Association
on one hand and the GCversaent and tke.P?articipating 3ankz cm the othez.
?lase inadicate yor agrament to the. foregoing by signing rbe enclosed
co" of th±a letttar'and ~retlirnizgt :to us.
VeZy truly 7curs,
BEST COPY AVALAB                                4                           ,,
Att:l;a XaraosnAno%2'u
Di:ec:or, C.-7untr7 ?r-zr=zs .
Zurope. . ddle List and North Afr:ca Raion
vnaersecr tarV  'or internaticnai  i nnnce      Chrn;rar:
'iinist.' o' Ecnonamv                            3;nk Misr
.Thn :rmnt                                       Ch ar',a n
:)ew.i oprn.w  nrtnen- n^t n. Bnn.'              Princ' nnl Bank for nc.zee1c-,ntr nc:
- 131 -      i-'jra. Ced:



Attachment 10
Page I of 3 pges
APS
- L32. -



Actachaent 10
I'.,:. .' i.r 3 pugutt
ARA8 REPUBLIC Of EGCYP
4/         FRUIT AND VSGETA8L£ DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
'4 2":  ~", ,j.I                            ____OCATION OF T X,000 PIDDANS PROJICt ARIA
I             ws8... W.
~~~~~~I           _    _     *eu  _o_wn
r~.~- -- .    -                   , 
I~ ~ ~ ~                    ,              
~  ~ '    _f 'ARM  ! 1-
-       .4                          t...fl~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AG -,
- .              S
.6*~ ~ ~~~1
l.EC,4ANaS! S
,O,^~   -       4   I                    $A.  \  I . ,
:   %{:P^N~*Oe.,I r'4_         
]~~~~~~~~AI -=         .. !
=-=flp4                    ___    , 1,,,    5              i
L~~~~~~~~ 14                                            -



g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4 I W  '<"X  
. 0 A ^ # § -   * * i  4 * X   * - 0 * 4 1 §   $   (        J -   K       t            t   |   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ }   =   /   /~~~~~~~~~'l
-.6       (   /(lly/ 
t         ,____   ~UU
_,   1  . { ~~~~BST'h44  ., C-UY Aow 



- _RYRIA,d
ARAS REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area (23.000 Feddan Seed Farn)                                                                                                                                         \"     >
Reclaimed Land
SAUDI
Land to be Reclaimed                                                                                                                                                               ARABIA
Future Etension of NASR Canal,TARi
--  -   Proposed Main Nubariya Outfall                                                            ANI                _/OEY
disting Canals ad Pumping Stations
-         Existing Drans
--       dBoundaries of Reclaimed and Unreckilmed Fcam Lands
&zj  O   Citis and Towns                                                                    rs EAA                                                                      SUDAN
Roads and Ratloads                                                                                                                               WAR .                                      lo
M M   Occupied Teffitories
CULTtVATED  RECLAUATICR    CULT?VATED
AVEAS    FDFEDDANti  PEPAD     AftFAY    fgWANS
1G NR-r.00   1964-tD59  (2)N^HDA      nGtl 19$t-1017 .- °/\
23 "S51tUT <.2O=) 1912 l'167  I&IlHO AWA  25M   1IB4-1%6/
63ExTENS ON  *7.00              4ICHAN?So    10.000  ISis-1i7                                                                                                                     DAMA      NHO
311OO
-31t0                             20               3D                                                      
KILO^IETEIwIptSgf\                                                                                             
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
.-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARA9:   @_
r70 EL ALAA*EINV*.
WESTERN DESERT                                                         \     x                                                              rsz
0            1   .  '
I                 ''~ ^s.ts rs-. ow s es s 6 .o s.r . * w~llsto/w11 ~s1t.-aj                                                            V         XCY                                                      K
A            ;X ..   es.    ae    .>;a   .weetelwr;-   ..................................................... l_n ^,¢ffi7e ....................... 3000o R (b
O: ., ?f. , ¢o.e, ............      a   ...Ws_-nioJrae  vmzrv 9130 O  >  _  iD
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 0



