'hE~~~I~~~I           Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1840-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE 1)  =    US$ 2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar              =    LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
(1 Egyptian Pound (LE)    =    US$ 1.70
Until February 1976     (
(1 US Dollar              =    LE 0.59
(1 Egyptian Pound (LE)    =    US$ 1.56
From February 1976      (
(1 US Dollar              =    LE 0.64
ABBREVIATIONS
NSPC :    Nubariya Seed Production Corporation
PGC  :    Potato Growers' Cooperative
UPEHC:    Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LE        Egyptian Pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan of
$50 million equivalent to the Arab Republic of Egypt to finance the foreign
exchange costs of a fruit and vegetable development project. The loan would
be made on standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including 7 years of
grace, with interest at 4.5 percent per annum. About $34.2 million will be
relent to Bank Misr at 8.5 percent interest per annum, over 15 years, in-
cluding five years of grace, for relending to finance parts of the project,
on terms described in paragraph 64.
PART I - TIHE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating mission visited Egypt in January/February 1976, and its findings
are incorporated in this report. A basic economic mission arrived in Cairo
in the first week of May 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Background
3.        The 1974 "October Paper," presented by President Sadat to the
people and the Parliament and approved in a national referendum, continues
to provide the basic principles which guide Egyptian development. These en-
visage decentralization of decision-making of state-owned enterprises, Lib-
cralization of the private sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage
private foreign investment and expanded economic cooperation with Arab coun-
tries. Accordingly, in 1974 and 1975, Egypt initiated a number of steps in
furtherance of these principles, which are expected to lead to a significant
restructuring of the economy. In particular, steps were taken to remove some
oE the heavy restrictions on private business activities, to encourage fp-
reign private investment and to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate. It should be noted, moreover, that this policy of economic
Liberalization was pursued in a generally unfavorable international political
and economic environment.
1/ The text of this part of the report is an updated version of Part I of the
President's Report on the Port of Alexandria project, P-1773-EGT of March
22, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.         The present Government, formed in April 1975 and reconstituted in
March 1976, has reaffirmed its intention to maintain the momentum towards a
more self-reliant, equitable and liberalized economy, and for that purpose to
implement a wide-ranging economic management program. In particular, the Gov-
ernment has initiated or intends to take measures: (i) to improve coordina-
tion in economic policy making; (ii) to improve public sector efficiency
through decentralization and rehabilitation; (iii) to rationalize consumption
subsidies and to increase national savings, while protecting the real income
of lower income groups, through appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;
(iv) to promote efficiency in resource allocation through widening the parallel
foreign exchange market (paragraph 13) and pursuing price policies that would
better reflect economic scarcities; and (v) to rationalize its external debt
situation and implement a debt-management program. The implementation of
these policy objectives, in conjunction with the substantial inflow of foreign
aid obtained in 1975 and expected in 1976 (paragraph 17), revenues from the
Suez Canal (opened on June 5, 1975), revitalized economic activity in the
Canal Zone and rapidly rising oil income, should lead to a considerable
strengthening of the Egyptian economy in the coming years.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Egypt's economy entered 1976 still bearing the marks of war and of a
decade of under-investment requiring substantial rebuilding and rehabilitation.
In 1974 and 1975 Egypt's economy was dominated by pressures that originated in
the external sector but spilled over Into the rest of the economy. On the ex-
ternal side, these included the slow progress towards peace in the Middle
East; the steep rise in the prices of Egypt's main imports; the recession in
the industrialized countries; and the slow disbursement of concessional as-
sistance and private external capital. On the domestic side, the escalation
in the world prices of food-led to an almost threefold increase in the net
budgetary subsidies on items of mass consumption, as the Government attempted
to maintain domestic prices of imported foodstuffs. Pent-up demand led to a
rise in the level of consumption and, combined with world inflation, led to a
marked rise in the general level of prices.
6.        The deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was largely met by
the use of short-term bank credit facilities, which reached a level of LE
1,055 million ($2.7 billion) 1/ at the end of 1974. The debt structure
worsened and the short maturity period of the bank credit facilities created
problems of liquidity. The heavy subsidization of items of mass consump-
tion, together with the slow growth of tax revenues, squeezed public sector
savings and increased the Government's borrowings from the-banking system.
This resulted in a 29 percent increase in money and quasi-money in a year
when output in real terms is estimated to have increased only by about 4
percent. Almost Inevitably, inflation continued at a high rate. Thus, the
Egyptian economy entered 1975 in a very vulnerable state, with both external
and domestic resources fully stretched.
7.        In 1975, the Government made efforts to prevent a major expansion in
the use of bank credit facilities. It also sought to obtain long-term loans
1/- Including -undisbursed amounts.



- 3 -
from Arab countries in order to "refinance" the bank credit facilities. These
efforts succeeded in raising LE 672 million ($1.72 billion) during 1975 on con-
cessionary terms from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar and a
start was made towards reducing the level of outstanding bank credit facili-
ties (see paragraph 21 below). However, the net cost-of-living subsidies in
1975 were budgeted at LE 493 million ($1.26 billion) -- an increase of almost
50 percent above the actual figure for the previous year. Public sector
savings -- and hence, because of its size, total domestic savings -- for 1975
remained low.
8.        Production and Investment.    Economic growth in 1974 is estimated
at about 4 percent in real terms, with industry (largely because of greater
utilization of capacity) and services (including construction and tourism)
being the leading growth sectors.    Investment expenditures increased from
LE 470 million in 1973 (which was only marginally above the 1965/66 level) to
LE 740 million in 1974 (in current prices), which is about 20 percent of GDP,
and represents an increase of about 40 percent in real terms. The 1975 Plan
envisaged gross fixed investment of LE 1154 million, of which LE 1056 million
were in the public sector. The 1975 Plan had the following priorities: (i)
reconstruction in the Suez Canal area (mainly in housing and related infra-
structure); (ii) completion of ongoing projects; (iii) replacement, renewal,
and better utilization of idle capacity; and (iv) new projects considered
essential for economic development, such as for producing fertilizers and
cement. The Plan also proposed tripling investment in the private sector to
LE 98 million, almost all of which will be in service activities and commodi-
ties production.   Preliminary estimates indicate that the real growth of GDP
in 1975 is also likely to have been around 4 percent, while investment may
have reached about 70 percent of the target.
9.        Prices.   Despite subsidies and price controls over a wide range of
commodities, inflation has continued at a high rate: the Consumer Price Index
for urban population increased by 10 percent in 1974, with the food and bever-
ages sub-index registering a rise of 15 percent. Price increases in 1975 are
likely to be of the same order of magnitude. It is likely that these figures
substantially understate the real level of inflation in the economy, as they
are based on controlled prices.
10.        The Domestic Budget.   Preliminary Budget figures for 1974 showed a
rise in the deficit to LE 653 million ($1.7 billion) compared with LE 386
million ($990 million) in 1973, largely because of a 270 percent increase in
the cost of living subsidies (to LE 330 million-$845 million) 1/, while cur-
rent revenues increased by about 12 percent to LE 1,143 million ($2.9 billion).
The 1975 budget projected a deficit of LE 925 million ($2.4 billion), despite
an estimated 35 percent increase in current revenues (arising principally from
a doubling of revenues from customs duties, including collection of arrears).
Direct bank financing of the budget deficit was projected at LE 125 million,
but in fact total lending by the banking sector to the Government greatly
exceeded this level. Preliminary figures for the first half of 1975 indicate
that both current revenues and expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts,
although, on the revenue side, continuing substantial arrears in import duties
were offset by a higher-than-projected growth of other taxes.
1/   Almost entirely due to the increase in international prices of imported
foodstuffs (largely flour, maize, sugar and edible oils).



-4-
11.       Balance of Payments.    Egypt's deficit on its trade and services
account amounted to LE 619 million ($1,584 million) in 1974 (more than twice
that experienced in 1973). Egypt's balance of payments difficulties were
further compounded by a slow disbursement of medium- and long-term loans
committed during 1973 and 1974 and a high level of debt repayments of LE 255
million ($654 million) in 1974; this resulted in a net outflow of LE 52 mil-
lion ($132 million) on official medium- and long-term capital. Substantially
increased Arab grants of LE 475 million ($1,217 million) in 1974 helped to
reduce the current deficit but the overall deficit on the current and the
medium- and long-term capital accounts nevertheless amounted to LE 199 million
($511 million), which was met by the use of bank credit facilities.
12.       Estimates of Egypt's balance of trade and services in 1975 indicate
a deficit of about LE 965 million ($2.5 billion). Repayments of about LE 270
million ($690 million) had to be made during the year on outstanding inter-
national obligations (excluding banking facilities). The resulting deficit
(of about LE 1,235 mitlion -- about $3.16 billion) was financed largely through
Arab grants, commodity loans, project loans, suppliers' credits and "rolling
over" of banking facilities (see paragraphs 18-22).
13.       Since September 1973 a feature of Egypt's trade and exchange rate
regime has been a "parallel market" for certain transactions in foreign ex-
change (tourism, non-traditional exports, and private sector current imports),
for which a devalued rate (originally about LE 1 = $1.70) of the Egyptian pound
is applied. During 1974, this market was expanded by the introduction of the
"own exchange imports scheme," whereby Egyptians holding foreign exchange ab-
road were permitted to use their balances to import commodities from a list of
about 300 items. In November 1975, the own exchange imports scheme was ex-
panded to cover almost all private imports. The scope of the parallel market
was widened in January 1976 to cover ten percent of all official imports
except supply commodities. The parallel market rate was adjusted in February
1976 to LE 1 = $1.56.
Development Prospects
14.       Despite the current economic difficulties, Egypt's economic poten-
tial over the long run is promising. The reasons for this assessment are in
brief: (i) the country has a large market, a skilled population, low wages,
varied raw materials, and a key geographical location, which makes it a
natural base for industries that wish to supply the domestic market and the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to rise to
a level of around LE 300 million ($770 miLLion) per year by 1980, and may
increase further as a result of physical expansion and greater usage of the
Canal; (iii) Egypt's improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by
the oil companies) at one million barrels a day by 1980-82; (iv) considerably
increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $225 million in
1975; (v) a more intensive utilization of agricultural land, with greater
emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increased flow of remittances
(estimated at about $250 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the
richer Arab countries of the region.



15.       However, the realization of the long-term potential hinges upon a
number of complex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The
most important of these is a definite movement towards an equitable and per-
manent peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, the attainment of
Egypt's prospects requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable portfolio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic policies and institutions. Hence, a realistic estimate
of the time required to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy
would be of the order of at least 5-10 years.
External Assistance
16.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased:
the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million (LE 4-5
million) annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period
FY 1968-1972; amortization payments were some $7 million (LE 3 million)
greater than disbursements in 1973. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries (estimated in excess of $1,200 million - LE 470
million) financed the bulk of Egypt's development. These inflows, however,
declined significantly in 1974 and new commitments in that year dropped to a
relatively low level of $76 million (LE 30 million). On the aggregate, slow
disbursements of medium- and long-term aid resulted in a net outflow on this
account (to both Eastern and Western bloc countries) increasing to about $132
milion (LE 52 million) in 1974. Drawings on suppliers' credits exceeded
repayments by about $21 million (LE 8 million); disbursements on other medium-
and long-term loans amounted to about $249 million (LE 97 million) while re-
payments of such loans amounted to $402 million (LE 157 million). In addition,
interest payments (mainly on bank credit facilities) amounted to about $156
million (LE 61 million).
17.       Substantial Arab aid was received in recent years.     Aid received
from Arab countries in 1974 amounted to $1,217 million (LE 475 million) and
financed about 36 percent of Egypt's imports. Of this, $996 million (LE 389
million) was received in convertible foreign exchange while the rest was in the
form of petroleum grants. A major development during the year was the renewal
of substantial aid commitments, estimated at about $205 million (LE 80 million),
from Wqestern countries. In fact, following the approval of the Bank loan and
IDA credit for the first Agricultural and Industrial Imports. Project in December
1974, sizeable program assistance was obtained by Egypt from the US, Iran,
Germany, and Japan, enabling these sectors further to increase their output and
capacity utilization. In 1975 aid commitments totalled about $3.26 billion
(see para 21 below). For FY76, the US Government has requested Congressional



- 6 -
approval for economic assistance on a level of some $700 million, part of
which is expected to be in the form of commodity aid. Grants from Arab
countries which reached about $1 billion in 1973 and 1974 are expected to
continue, perhaps at a somewhat lower level. Aid from the other OECD coun-
tries, especially France, Germany, UK and Japan, is expected to remain at the
increased level of 1974/75; the European Community is also supplying agricul-
tural commodities at concessional prices (including one million tons of wheat)
during 1975/76. The creation of a fund by four Arab oil producing countries
to participate in financing Egypt's development program has recently been
announced.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Egypt's external debt profile worsened in 1974 almost entirely as a
result of its borrowing short-term funds at high rates of interest (in the
form of bank credit facilities). Bank credit facilities (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $2.7 billion (LE 1055 million) at the end of 1974, com-
pared with about $1,127 million (LE 440 million) at the end of 1973. Out-
standing debt to correspondent banks overseas (i.e., disbursed amounts or
letters of credit encashed by these institutions) amounted to $1,082 million
(LE 423 million) compared with $499 million (LE 195 million) at the end of
1973. The use of this type of financing created serious external liquidity
problems for Egypt in 1975, during which $2,190 million (LE 855 million) of
repayments (including interest payments of LE 75 million-$192 million) on
these credits had to be made.
19.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1974, was estimated at $2,760 million (LE 1,078
milLion), i.e., roughly the same level as the previous year. The composition
of this debt changed, however, with medium- and long-term government debt in-
creasing slightly to $1,769 million (LE 691 million) and amounts owed as sup-
pliers' credits and balance of bilateral accounts showing significant declines
to $474 million and $417 million (LE 185 million and LE 163 million), respec-
tively. In addition, $100 million (LE 39 million) of medium-term debt was con-
tracted from financial institutions. At end 1974, the IJSSR was Egypt's prin-
cipal creditor, followed in importance by Germany, Kuwait, the IJnited States,
Australia and Italy. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 1 percent of the total. Of
the reported external public debt at end 1974, about 31 percent was due to be
repaid within two years, 40 percent within three years, and 46 percent within
four years. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was ;timated to amount
to about $710 million in 1974, indicating a debt-service rat      of 32 percent.
No reliable estimates of military debt are available, but it LS understood that
Egypt is seeking a rescheduling of service payments on such cebt.
20.       During 1975, the Egyptian authorities embarked upon a four-pronged
strategy to place the country's external accounts on a sound basis. The first
step was to stop outstanding foreign bank credit to Egypt from spiralling even
higher (and worsening the liquidity position) by placing a "one-to-one" limit
on the use of banking facilities. Thus the amount of new letters of credit
opened against bankers' facilities in any given period could not exceed the



amount of cash repayments made on such facilities falling due in that period.
Simultaneously, the Egyptian Government sought the aid of Arab and other states
for substantial medium- and long-term loans on concessionary terms which would
constitute a "fund" to be held in the Central Bank to meet further payments due
on bankers' facilities. Third, medium- and long-term aid was sought from
Western countries and Japan in a quick-disbursing form (such as program loans
and commodity assistance) in order to finance Egypt's essential imports.
Finally, discussions were resumed with the Soviet Union for a rescheduling of
debt service payments.
21.       The Government's efforts to mobilize external assistance met with
considerable success in 1975. Long-term loans, at concessionary terms, total-
ling $1,720 million (LE 672 million -- $600 million from Kuwait, $600 million
from Saudi Arabia, $320 million from Iran, $150 million from Abu Dhabi and
$50 million from Qatar) were received in 1975. In addition, Arab countries,
Arab development funds, USA, Germany, Japan, France, Denmark and Iran have com-
mitted about $1,530 million as concessional aid. In February 1976 President
Sadat visited a number of Arab countries, and commitments for an immediate
transfer to Egypt of about $700 million in cash have been announced. It is
expected that further funds will be sought, and imports will probably be
reduced from the currently projected level. It has also been announced that,
for the longer-term, a fund to assist Egyptian development is being set up by
a group of Arab countries, although the amounts that will be available to it
are still uncertain.
22.       Egypt was, however, unsuccessful in its efforts to reduce its depend-
ence on bank credit facilities. Although a large part of the loans received
from Arab countries were in fact used to pay off bank credits falling due, be-
cause of the country's import requirements (estimated at $4.5 billion in 1975),
a high level of fresh bank credits (LE 700 million or $1,792 million) was in-
curred. As a result, Egypt's external debt situation deteriorated further in
1975. While medium- and long-term debt outstanding at end 1975 is estimated
to have increased to about $5.25 billion, compared to $2.76 billion at end 1974,
short-term debt in the form of bank credit facilities outstanding (including
unutilized credits) was only slightly reduced; on December 31, 1975, it was
$2,620 million, compared with $2,700 million at end of 1974.
23.       Accordingly, considerable further measures are required to assure a
permanent improvement and the firm establishment of creditworthiness. To
assure stable and sustained growth in the long-term, some fundamental policy
decisions will be required. These include:
(i) improved coordination in economic policy-making;
(ii) improved public enterprise efficiency through decentralization
and other measures;
(iii) rationalization of consumption subsidies and increased domes-
tic savings, while protecting lower income groups through
appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;



- 8 -
(iv) promotion of efficient resource allocation through widening
the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing price
policies that would better reflect economic scarcities;
(v) reduction of the use of short-term lending facilities, ratio-
nalization of the external debt situation and implementation
of a debt management program; and
(vi) The preparation of a medium-term plan covering the period
1976-80, to provide a framework for investment decisions and
policies.
While some steps have been taken recently with respect to (ii), (iv), (v) and
(vi) above, these measures will require continuing review and action. At the
Government's request, the Bank has arranged to review developments in the
economy by economic missions three or four times a year; the first of these
took place in October 1975 and the second in January 1976. A basic economic
mission is at present in Egypt. In view of Egypt's promising medium-term
prospects, and the efforts currently underway to prepare and implement poli-
cies that will enable the country better to exploit its development potential,
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for Bank lending as well as IDA. Taking
the above points into account, and in view of Egypt's relative poverty and need
for long-term capital on concessionary terms to improve its debt structure and
its creditworthiness, Egypt is considered eligible for Third Window loans from
the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
24.       The proposed loan would be the Bank Group's nineteenth lending opera-
tion in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$497.5 million 1/. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       Following a decade of severe underinvestment in the economic sec-
tors and in infrastructure, Egypt's need for investment and its absorptive
capacity are both large. Also, as a result of the weak balance of payments
position over the past two years, the funds available for essential raw mate-
rials and intermediate goods for agriculture and industry have been insuffi-
cient and the productive capacity of the economy was underutilized. The
principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is to provide
foreign exchange in support of its development program through lending (i)
for increasing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii) for proj-
ects which would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or sub-
stitute for imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sec-
tors, (iii) for projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure
necessary to facilitate development, and (iv) for selected social sectors,
namely population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in
projects has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required
1/ Including a loan of $45.0 million for the Port of Alexandria signed on
April 19, 1976.



- 9 -
for most of these projects from other donors. Besides the technical assist-
ance included under the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank has been asked to act as
Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and a Master
Plan for Water Resources and Uses. Work on these is expected to begin in
1976. It has also extended limited technical assistance in the preparation of
a five-year development plan.
26.       The projects financed in FY74 and FY75 were in support of this
strategy. A second credit for the development finance operations of the
Bank of Alexandria was approved in early FY76, and a loan for rehabilitation
of the Port of Alexandria, cofinanced with USAID and the Japanese Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund, was approved in April 1976. In agriculture, in
addition to the currently proposed project for production of fruit and vegeta-
bles, a third drainage project covering additional land in Upper Egypt has
been appraised and is likely to be presented for consideration by the Execu-
tive Directors in the near future, while the content of a possible future
agricultural development project is being discussed. A project aimed at
rehabilitation and modernization of two major public sector textiles enter-
prises has also been appraised; this and the Drainage Project will both
attract substantial cofinancing. A pipeline of projects for future lending
is also being developed, including projects in the education and power sec-
tors, drainage in the Nile Delta, water and sewerage, and industry.
27.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent a small
portion, less than 10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements.
The Bank Group's share of external debt outstanding and disbursed was about 1
percent at the end of 1974 and about 1 3/4 percent in September 1975. For the
future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
excluding military debts is estimated to reach about 10 percent in 1978 of
which the Bank share would be about 7 percent. It is estimated that in 1978,
debt service payments due to the Bank Group will represent about 1 percent of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
28.       IFC has in the past two years also been discussing private sector
and joint venture projects, and its first project, an investment of up to
$5.6 million dollars in the Arab Ceramic Company, in the building materials
sub-sector, was approved by the IFC Board in April 1976.
Previous Bank Group Agricultural Operations in Egypt
29.       There have been two IDA credits for drainage projects, the Nile
Delta Drainage Credit (No. 181-UAR of 1970) for $26.0 million, covers 950,000
feddans 1/ (about one-quarter of the total area of the Delta), and the Upper
Egypt Drainage Credit (No. 393-UAR of 1973), for $36 million, covers 300,000
fd (covering about one-eighth of the rural area of Upper Egypt). Both provide
tile drains, remodelling and constructing associated open drains, and construc-
ting pumping stations; the Upper Egypt project also provides $6.5 million for
a bilharzia control component. The projects suffered from delays due to
shortage of local currency and of engineers under the circumstances affecting
the Egyptian economy up to 1974. These problems have been largely overcome in
1/   One feddan is equal to 1.04 acres or 0.42 hectares.



- 10 -
the past eighteen months, and the pace of project implementation has improved.
Under the 1974 Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project (Credit No. 524-EGT
and Loan No. 1062-EGT), $19 million was provided for urgently needed imports
to meet pressing needs for agricultural chemicals, pesticides, animal feed,
and spare parts for agricultural machinery to improve utilization of available
productive capacity in the sector. Procurement has been largely completed,
and disbursements are continuing.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
30.       The Egyptian Agriculture Sector is discussed in detail in the report
"Egyptian Agriculture, Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives"
(931b-EGT) distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1976. Only
about 2-1/2 percent of Egypt's total land area, or about 2.53 million hectares,
equivalent to about six million feddans (fd), is cultivated. 1/ About 5-1/2
million fd. in the valley of the Nile and the Delta, known as the "Old Lands,"
is cultivated as is about half a million fd. of reclaimed land, almost all of
which is on the fringes of the Nile Valley and, especially, of the Delta. How-
ever, since two or more crops are grown each year on much of the land, the
cropped area averages about 10.8 mn fd. Egypt has virtually no rainfall, and
agriculture is dependent on the Nile: successive dammings have enabled almost
the whole of the Old Lands to benefit from perennial irrigation. The flat
topography and rich soil, and the long agricultural traditions, have also led
to a relatively high level of land productivity, although there is considerable
scope for further increases.
Present Situation
31.       Agriculture accounts for approximately 30 percent of GNP and some 52
percent of exports of goods, and employs just under half the labor force; it
remains the dominant sector of Egypt's economy. Crops, as opposed to live-
stock, account for about 75 percent of agricultural output, with cotton,
maize, wheat, rice and berseem (a fodder crop) being the major crops, while
about 15 percent of output is from fruit and vegetables. Egypt's main agricul-
tural exports are cotton (LE 259 mn) accounting for 75 percent of agricultural
exports in 1974, rice (LE 40 mn), citrus fruit (LE 11 mn), and fresh and
processed vegetables (LE 15 mn). The main industrial exports, cotton yarn and
textiles based on domestic cotton, account for LE 116 mn or 37 percent of
industrial exports. On the other hand, there are substantial imports of food
and feed, includ[ng wheat and flour (about LE 296 mn in 1974), sugar, feed
grains and meat, altogether accounting for LE 338 mn or 27 percent of total
imports.
32.       Agricultural Output.    Although Egypt's crop yields compare favorably
with those of other countries, these yields are low in relation to the coun-
try's exceptional good natural resource base. With higher inputs and relaxa-
tion of financial and institutional constraints (see paragraph 36), substan-
tially higher yields for certain crops would be possible. Agricultural output,
1/   One fd. is equal to 1.04 acres or 0.42 hectares.



- 11 -
which was increasing at nearly 4 percent per annum between 1955 and 1965, had
by the middle of the last decade begun to falter: the growth in production
has declined to about 2% per annum since then despite the expansion in peren-
nial irrigation, because of salinity, the rising water-table, and the con-
straints described below. Taking account of population growth, both food pro-
duction and overall agricultural production in per capita terms have declined
since 1965. The slowdown in agricultural growth has had an adverse effect on
Egypt's economic development: the needs of the increasing population, to-
gether with an increase in domestic demand arising from increased incomes,
have necessitated a substantial increase in basic food imports, while for-
eign exchange earnings from agricultural exports have not risen appreciably.
During the past three years the situation has become acute: food import costs
have risen sharply from about $250 million in 1972 to over $1.25 billion in
1975. Government subsidy costs to supply basic foods in urban areas have
risen from $100 million in 1972 to $1.3 billion in 1975. Despite these
outlays, and price controls on cereals and other basic foods, overall food
prices have risen rapidly.
33.       Land Tenure and Institutional Structure.   Following land reform
legislation in 1952, 1961 and 1969, land ownership in Egypt is widely distri-
buted: 57 percent of the cultivated land is in farms of less than 5 fd. The
maximum holding is 50 fd, or 100 fd for a family, and only 12 percent of the
land (owned by 0.3 percent of the farmers) is in family holdings of more than
50 fd. The three and a quarter million holdings in the Old Lands are grouped
into 4,000 cooperatives, administered by the General Agricultural Cooperative
Society, and the Land Reform Cooperative Society.   This system is currently
under review, and proposals have been made for streamlining it and reducing
the number of cooperatives to about 700. There are also nine "vertical" or
specialty cooperatives, whose members are individual general cooperatives at a
village level. Each specialty cooperative exists to promote the production,
processing and marketing of one of nine specific commodities (including pota-
toes, rice, cotton, sugarcane, etc.). The general cooperatives act as part of
the administrative system of the Ministry of Agriculture, ensuring conformity
to the stipulated cropping pattern, working closely with      the agricultural
credit banks to ensure supply of the minimum inputs of seed, fertilizer, pest-
icides, etc., and buying from the farmers their required minimum quantities of
the basic crops.
34.       In March 1976 the Ministry of Agriculture was put under a Minister
of State for Agriculture, reporting together with the Ministry of Irrigation to
a Minister of Irrigation and Agriculture. In addition to its responsibilities
for agricultural production, the Ministry of Agriculture has been also respons-
ible for desert land reclamation and for developing reclaimed land, while the
construction of irrigation works and the provision of field drainage are
responsibilities of the Ministry of Irrigation. The institutions within the
Ministry of Agriculture responsible for development of reclaimed land were
reorganized in late 1975 as part of the general policy throughout the economy
of decentralization of public enterprises (paragraph 3). Autonomous companies
have been established in place of the General Organisation for Land Reclamation,



- 12 -
which previously performed this function. Each company is responsible for
developing the reclaimed land in its area, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Once developed, reclaimed land is farmed by public
sector companies, or by small farmers grouped into cooperatives under a third
cooperative organization, the General Reclamation Cooperative Society.
35.       Agricultural Credit.   The official agricultural credit system is
widely established in Egypt. The Egyptian General Organization for Agricul-
tural and Co-operative Credit undertakes the central planning of agricultural
and cooperative credit within the framework of the Ministry's cropping policy,
and executes it through the 17 agricultural credit banks in the governorates,
raising funds for the purpose mainly from the commercial banks. The system
is organizationally weak, has a centralized bureaucratic structure, and
due to lack of capital and lending skills has mainly restricted activities to
short-term loans. District branches of the credit banks deal with the af-
filiated village-level rural cooperative societies, providing credit only for
cooperative members, mainly short-term, in cash or in kind, to finance each
farmer's basic inputs for his allocated crops, in amounts determined centrally.
The system's banking operations are inseparable from its non-banking operations
which include procurement and sale of agricultural inputs, and crop marketing:
agricultural credit banks at the district level manage about 1,050 grain and
input supply stores, and arrange for transport and distribution of agricultural
inputs. Despite the high centralization of agricultural credit, and the in-
tegration between credit banks and village cooperative societies, and between
credit and marketing operations, the performance of the credit banks is low
and the loan recovery rates are only of the order of 70 percent. The lack of
a development finance institution for agricultural and agroindustrial develop-
ment in Egypt is apparent.
Policies and Constraints
36.       Since 1965 agricultural planning has been on a short-term basis.
Drafts of formal long-term plans have been discussed in the past, and a Five
Year Plan is under preparation as part of the overall plan (see paras 23 and
38). Nevertheless, there are some generally accepted policy goals and guide-
lines. Agriculture should supply much of the domestic food needs, and gen-
erate foreign exchange earnings from exports to help meet Egypt's large im-
port needs. To this end, and given the policy aim of maintaining low and
stable domestic food prices, the Ministry of Agriculture has maintained close
control over agricultural production by regulating the cropping patterns of
all farmers, supplyLng them with agricultural inputs at fixed, subsidized
prices, and as their major market outlet, by buying allocated amounts of tra-
ditional crops at low, controlled prices. This policy is now under review in
the face of rapidly fluctuating international commodity prices and the chang-
ing domestic economic policies, particularly the "open-door" policy and the
need for price flexibility. The Low, administered profit margins for tradi-
tional field crops tend to act as a disincentive to the individual farmer,
making it unprofitable for him to use the inputs necessary for increased
output of traditional crops. The regulated cropping patterns also prevent
switching to crops such as vegetables from which far higher revenue could be
obtained. Overall cropping patterns have in fact remained relatively constant
in recent years.



- 13 -
37.       Investment.   Physical, financial and institutional constraints have
all contributed to the modest performance of the sector. Up to now the Gov-
ernment's investment strategy has been to place emphasis on easing the physical
constraints on agriculture through a program of horizontal expansion, i.e.,
desert land reclamation projects. This has been costly and slow to produce re-
sults. In recent years, investment in reclamation (as well as in large-scale
public sector poultry projects) have absorbed most of the relatively small
amount of Government funds allocated to agriculture, at the expense of invest-
ment needs elsewhere in the sector, including provision of farm inputs, re-
search and extension services, processing and marketing facilities and agri-
cultural credit. A decline, caused by salinity and the rising water-table,
in the fertility of the Old Lands, the basic source of Egyptian agricultural
wealth, also points to the need to allocate considerably larger funds to
public investment in the Old Lands.
Strategies and Priorities
38.       The Bank has begun a dialogue with the Government on agricultural
policy on the basis of the recently distributed sector report (paragraph 30
above). The report describes the possibilities of substantial increases in
agricultural output, and the increased returns that can be obtained from an
increased allocation of public investment to the old lands, coupled with re-
moval of agricultural institutional constraints. Discussions are expected
to continue in the context of the forthcoming preparation of a basic economic
report on Egypt scheduled for completion in mid-1977, and in connection with
ongoing and future project and economic work. While the policy dialogue con-
tinues, the Bank has continued to support essential projects to overcome
physical problems, such as the drainage projects, which are a precondition to
future development of the sector. The Government is aware of many of the
shortcomings described above, particularly of the physical constraints, and
the need to improve agricultural planning. It is reviewing policies accord-
ingly. In the context of the preparation of the 1976-80 five year plan, a new
policy of vertical expansion Is under consideration. This redirection of in-
vestment towards increasing the productivity of existing arable land, particu-
larly that which is already reclaimed, is capable of producing substantially
greater and quicker returns. In addition, there has been in the past two
years a slight decrease in the area allocated to cotton production, in favor
of cereals and fruit and vegetables. This policy requires constant review of
relative prices and market demand for various commodities; to improve resource
allocation, means should be explored of increasing its flexibility and sharp-
ening its responses.
39.       Awareness of agriculture's institutional and financial constraints,
especially of the complex effects of the controlled pricing system, is some-
what limited outside the sector. While there is appreciation of the fact that,
to increase output, there is need to reduce physical constraints (especially
by improved drainage), greater attention needs to be directed to allowing the
farmer to respond to market forces. In addition to the need to improve the
existing services of research, training and extension, and to increasing in-
vestment in drainage, soil improvement, supply of quality seed and fertilizer,
it is important to Increase production incentives to farmers by increasing
profit margins in the traditional crops, deregulating cropping patterns, or
both.'



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A project for development of production and exports of fruit and
vegetables was first identified by a Bank Sector Mission which visited Egypt.
in October/November 1972. Following further study by the Government, prepara-
tion missions from FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program visited Egypt in November 1974
and March 1975. The project was preappraised by a Bank mission in June 1975,
and appraised in October/November. Negotiations were held in Washington from
April 28 to May 6 1976, with a delegation'led by Dr. Wagih Shindy, Under-
secretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation, and including
Mr. Ahmad Fouad, Chairman, Bank Misr, Mr. Mohamed Hafez, Chief Manager, Bank
Misr, Mr. Osman El Ghamry, Vice Chairman, Drainage Authority, Dr. El Sayed
Nassar, Director, Vegetable Research Institute, Mr. Esam Khalil, Manager,
Nubariya Seed Production Corporation, Mr. Abdel Moniem Elgamal, Ministry of
Economy and Economic Cooperation. A Staff Project Report entitled "Appraisal
of a Fruit and Vegetable Development Project" is being distributed separately
(1181-EGT), a Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Maps are
attached of Egypt, of the vegetable seed component project area, and of the
reclaimed lands to the west of the Delta.
Project Background
41.       The Government's basic objective in developing horticulture is to
generate foreign exchange by developing the already significant expiorts of
fruit and vegetables, as well as of increasing horticultural supplies on the
home market to meet the ever-growing home demand. To this end it seeks to
improve-horticultural inputs, especially seeds, to improve processing and
marketing through agroindustrial credit development, and to strengthen insti-
tutions concerned with horticulture'. About 8 percent of the cropped area is
cultivated with vegetables producing about 10 percent of total agricultural
output. Most farmers grow some vegetables, as part of the normal crop rotation.
Fruits account for about 5 percent of total output, and are grown on about 2
percent of the cropped area, mostly by larger farmers. While specialty coop-
eratives (paragraph 33) are responsible for some vegetable crops, a substantial
part of fruit and vegetable production is. marketed privately. The biggest
horticultural export crop is citrus fruit, export of which in 1974 amounted to
about LE 11 million. Potato exports (mostly to the UK) were about LE,6 mil-
lion.  Exports of tomatoes together with smaller quantities of green beans,
green peppers and artichokes, amounted to about LE 5 million and appear to be
fast increasing. This compares with total non-processed agricultural exports
of about LE 350 million. About 20% of the citrus and potato crops is exported,
although exports of other vegetables (apart from onions of which exports were
about LE 8 million in' 1974) are still small in relation to total production.
Details of export markets are given in paragraph 59.



- 15 -
42.       Vegetable yields are low in comparison to Egypt's high potential,
partly because of the poor quality of seed used. Only about 20 percent of
vegetable seeds (not including seed potatoes) are certified; most of these
are produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, either directly or under con-
tract by farmers. The rest of the requirements are met, inadequately,
either by farmers saving their own seed or by local dealers who produce
for sale. A ready market for imported seed exists at two or three times
the usual seed prices. Contract seed production is inadequate, and progress
has been slow. Because contract prices are low, farmers often prefer to sell
vegetables on the fresh market rather than to meet their contracts. The
Ministry lacks trained staff, equipment and the necessary control machinery to
supervise seed production, leading to low quality seed which growers reject.
The Ministry's Vegetable Research Institute, which breeds vegetable seeds,
lacks equipment and facilities; also the Seed Certification Agency of the
Ministry of Agriculture lacks equipment and facilities to extend its activ-
ities to vegetable seeds. The project will support the steps the Government
is now taking to improve domestic vegetable seed production.
43.       Potatoes are a major Egyptian field crop, and a traditional export
commodity. Potato production and marketing are the responsibility of one of
the most active of the specialty cooperatives, the Potato Growers' Cooperative
(PGC), which represents over 33,000 farmers through its membership of 392
village-level cooperatives. It is responsible for meeting their seed-potato
requirements, for which between 20 to 25 thousand tons are imported annually;
the cost of these imports varies, due mainly to international price fluctua-
tions. It was LE 2 million in 1976 and nearly LE 6 million in 1975. So as to
reduce dependence on imports PGC wishes to build cold stores so that domestic
seed-potatoes can be kept for use in the following year's crop.
44.       Three public sector companies, the El Wadi Export Company, the Nile
Company and the Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
(UPEHC), handle the major share of four of Egypt's horticultural exports:
citrus fruit, potatoes, tomatoes and green beans. Although recent legislation
permits private farmers and others to export agricultural products, it is
likely that these three companies will maintain their pre-eminent position.
All three are attempting to improve their currently inadequate packaging,
transport and storage facilities.
45.       All citrus exports are handled by El Wadi, a public sector company
with assets of LE 3.5 million, which also exports other fruit and some other
agricultural produce. Most exports of vegetable crops, including potato
exports for PGC, are handled by the Nile Company, a public sector company of
similar size to El Wadi, and by UPEHC, established by the Government in 1971,
as an additional export concern, which is being developed as a form of coopera-
tive organization, whose members are individual vegetable producers through-
out the country.



- 16 -
Project Objectives
46.       The proposed project aims at increasing and improving horticultural
production and exports, reducing imports of seeds and seed potatoes, helping
to build institutions related to horticultural production and marketing, and
helping form the basis for a vegetable export industry, for which Egypt has
comparative advantages. The major project components help make productive
use of the heavy capital costs invested in the already-reclaimed lands. In
addition, the Project helps develop the country's development credit system
(paragraph 35 above) through creation in one of Egypt's major commercial
banks, Bank Misr, of a unit for term-lending for agro-industrial purposes.
47.       Project Components.    The project components can be grouped into four
categories described separately in this report:
A.   Vegetable Seed Components
Three components cover facilities for the production, supply and
certification of high quality vegetable seeds, with the aim of
meeting at least 50 percent of Egypt's needs of seeds for major
vegetable crops within five years, leading to complete self-suf-
ficiency in future. These components will include (i) establishment
of the Nubariya Seed Production Corporation (NSPC) to establish and
operate a seed farm on reclaimed land to the west of the Delta, in
an area known as West Nubariya; (ii) assistance to the Ministry of
Agriculture's Seed Certification Agency; and (iii) assistance to the
Vegetable Research Institute to strengthen research and breeding
capacity for breeder and foundation seeds.
B.   Drainage Component
This component consists of (i) sealing the lining of the Nasr
Canal, the main irrigation canal in the NSPC area, and.(ii) con-
struction of a 67 km drainage outfall in West Nubariya, to col-
lect drainage water from the seed farm project area and from the
surrounding reclaimed lands. About 450,000 fd is being reclaimed
and developed in the area, and of this about 180,000 fd is already
cultivated, much of it with horticultural crops. The whole area is
suffering severely from waterlogging and increasing salinity, and
the proposed outfall would serve the already cultivated 180,000 fd
as well as 100,000 fd of-the remainder.
C.   Horticultural Development Components
Bank Misr would make loans for these sub-projects after suitable
appraisal. These components, cover provision of storage, transport
and packing facilities for four public sector institutions engaged
in production, import and export of potatoes, citrus fruit, and other
horticultural crops: (i) PGC, (ii) El Wadi, (iii) Nile Company and
(iv) UPEHC (see paragraphs 43-45 above).



- 17 -
D.   Agro-industries Credit Component
Funds would be provided for on-lending and for technical assist-
ance to Bank Misr, to enable it to establish an Agricultural
Development Lending Unit.
Vegetable Seed Components
48.       NSPC's Seed Production Farm would be created on an area of 23,000
fd net of reclaimed land in the southern part of the West Nubariya area to
the West of the Delta, irrigated by the Nubariya Canal (see Map). Climatic
and soil conditions are favorable for vegetable seed production, provided that
waterlogging and salinity hazards are avoided. The area is part of the first
zone serviced by the Nasr Canal, a main subsidiary of the Nubarlya Canal, and
is already provided with nearly completed irrigation and drainage facilities,
designed and constructed from 1968 onwards. Some works remain to be completed,
including lining of secondary and tertiary canals, excavation of secondary and
tertiary drains, and the construction of field drains, while parts of the
existing network need repairs. This component will include:
(a) Protection against waterlogging and salination by sealing
and relining existing irrigation canals, completion and
deepening of existing open drains, and field drainage.
(b) Completion of general infrastructure to ensure adequate
working and living conditions for the workers and staff
involved in the Project, including asphalting about 23 km
of roads, supply of water and power, and construction of
houses and offices.
(c) Provision of farm machinery, seed processing equipment and
vehicles.
(d) Provision of 174 man-months technical assistance to develop
NSPC management, and to train its staff.
49.       Production by NSPC on a restricted area under its direct control
will ensure-safer seed production, taking account of needs for rotation and
isolation and yield requirements. NSPC will be the nucleus of a vegetable
seed industry in Egypt. Benefits of modern production and processing tech-
nology will be better attained in the concentrated area, where management
coordination and mobility are assured, and where services and technical
assistance can be used efficiently, compared with the present scattered
production under contract in farms throughout Egypt. Seeds will continue to
be sold through the cooperatve organizations, NSPC's own outlets, and existing
private traders. A recent ministerial decree provided for NSPC's establish-
ment as a public sector enterprise, and its general manager has been appointed;



- 18 -
appointment of other key staff, provision of equity by the Government, the
fact that it shall have commenced operations, and the provision of a legal
opinion that it has been duly established as a legal entity, with the power to
borrow money and to carry on its operations, will be conditions of effective-
ness (Sections 6.01 and 6.02, Loan Agreement). NSPC will set its own prices
in accordance with commercial practices (Section 3.13, Loan Agreement). It is
believed that farmers will be ready to pay suitable prices, since vegetables
are sold mostly on the free market, and since imported certified seeds cur-
rently sell at a high price.
50.       Some workers and staff already working on the farm area will be
transferred to NSPC, as will other appropriate staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture. The seed farm project area will be transferred to NSPC, either
as owner or on a lease of at least'30 years on terms satisfactory to the Bank
as a condition of Loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.12 and 6.01).
Arrangements will be made with a commercial tomato processing company for
extracting tomato seed and marketing the pulp (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
51.       The Seed Certification Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture would
be provided with laboratory equipment and transportation facilities which will
allow it to expand its activities to include control and certification of
vegetable seeds.
52.       The Ministry of Agriculture's Vegetable Research Institute would
receive funds to develop breeding programs of disease and pest-resistant
varieties of vegetable seeds. The.funds would finance laboratory equipment,
greenhouses, and transportation facilities to facilitate communication between
research and production areas, as well as technical assistance.
Drainage Component - West Nubariya Main Drain
53.       The main objective of the West Nubariya Drainage Outfall subproject
is to solve the serious problems of waterlogging and salinity which have
arisen in the New Lands West of Nubariya since irrigation was introduced in
this area some fifteen years ago. Before irrigation the water table was
about 30 to 50 meters below ground level in the western part of the area, and
about 6 to 30 meters in its eastern part, depending on topography. Now it is
estimated that the groundwater level has risen quite close to the land surface
in the northern part-of the area, and also in the Mechanized Farm near the
NSPC area, posing serious threats of waterlogging and salinity to the whole
of the area. The Nuba'riya Canal, which is the only source of irrigation, now
also acts as a drain collecting the saline return flow from the already ir-
rigated 180,000 feddans, so that the irrigation water is becoming increasingly
saline. A key part of the proposed drainage program in this area would be the
construction of the 67 km Main Outfall, independent of the Nubariya Canal, to
collect the saline-return flow and discharge it by gravity into the sea.
Without the construction of this drain, waterlogging and salinity problems
would become so acute that the Seed Production Farm output is likely to begin



- 19 -
to suffer seriously within five years, while development of the seed farm
would, since it is at the upstream end of the reclaimed land, add to the
increasing salinity and hence loss of production in the rest of the area. The
Main Outfall has been designed to allow for all tributary drains including the
drain of the Seed Production Farm, to discharge into it directly by gravity.
About 9 million m3 would be excavated in total, mostly in soft ground cohesive
enough to prevent caving in. Structures to be constructed along the Outfall
would include 19 road bridges, 1 railway bridge, 5 large siphons and 4 smaller
ones, I overflow spillway and miscellaneous less important structures. This
component will also include the sealing of the lining of the Nasr Canal.
Horticultural Development Components
54.       The Potato Cold Stores Subproject would finance four fully equipped
cold stores of 6,000 tons capacity each to permit the Potato Growers' Co-
operative (PGC - see paragraph 43) to expand its potato storage, grading and
marketing services which currently serve 33,220 farmers throughout the country.
The expansion will permit implementation of the Government's plan to expand
domestic production of seed potatoes, so reducing dependence on imports by
20,000 tons out of the present total of 25,000 tons. At 1975 prices this
would represent an annual saving of about LE 4 million ($6.8 million) in
convertible currency. Technical assistance would be financed to develop
methods of improving traditional on-farm stores, known as nawalas, from which
it is hoped to reduce losses in these stores from 25 percent at present to 10
percent, adding about LE 1.2 million to producer revenue. PGC's management
is well experienced in managing cold stores; no difficulty is anticipated in
recruiting additional staff. Its financial position, although currently
satisfactory, needs to be strengthened to handle the sub-project; PGC intends
to do this through increased share capital to be subscribed by its members,
so as to be able to borrow from Bank Misr. This component will be import
saving, but may also lead to increasing potato exports by improvement of seed
potato quality.
55.       The Citrus Packing and Marketing subproject would provide El Wadi
Company (para 45 above) with four fully equipped citrus packing stations, with
a total annual capacity of 100,000 tons, including stores and handling equip-
ment to upgrade operations in existing packing plants, truck transport, and
port storage facilities, to improve its marketing operations. A small central
laboratory would also be financed for improved quality control. This invest-
ment should allow a 50 percent increase in Egypt's citrus exports, and ensure
the necessary capacity through 1980/1981. The Company is efficiently managed
and its financial position is sound. The proposed activities under the
Project will be an extension of its on-going activities.
56.       The Fresh Vegetable Packing and Marketing subprojects will furnish
export packing plants for tomatoes and green vegetables, new equipment to
upgrade export packing plants for potatoes and onions, refrigerated and
unrefrigerated storage, and transportation facilities. The investments will
be undertaken by the Nile Company and the Union of Producers and Exporters



- 20 -
of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC), which acts as a producer controlled link to
the export market (para 45 above). The investments will enable both concerns
to improve their present rather- primitive methods of sorting, grading, and
packing and assembling for export, thereby adding to the quality and con-
sistency of their products to meet the standards of export markets, and reduc-
ing shipping costs. They will also ensure that the necessary capacity to
handle the projected incr-eases in export supplies of tomatoes and green vege-
tables is available when required. The Nile Company has a sound financial
position.  Its present organization is adequate for the proposed investment.
UPEHC is institutionally weak, because of its lack of capital and because,
although it has been operating since 1972, Government has still to approve its
charter. The Government will provide UPEHC with a capital base of EL 210,000
equity and approve its charter, enabling it to have independent staff, a-
separate capital structure, and therefore financial autonomy (Section 3.02(b)
and Schedule 1, paragraph 4, Loan Agreement).
57.       The El Wadi and Nile Companies and UPEHC are expected to find ready
markets for the additional exports which the project will generate. Egypt has
in recent years exported on-average 200,000 tons of citrus fruit (mostly
oranges of which about 75 percent were to Eastern Europe, under bilateral
trade agre6ements. (About twenty percent has been to. Western Europe, and the
remainder to the Middle East and Singapore, where prices are favorable.
Quality of Egypt's export oranges is high, and they are available earlier than
those Df other countries in the region. Egypt now benefits from 20.percent
tariff reductions-in the European Community, and its.citrus exports are highly
competitive; With the support of, the proposed project, and with the attention
currently being given by El Wadi to packing and grading, and its well-organized
export market system, Egypt stands a good chance of.increasing its present l
percent share of the-EC market. The Mlid- and Far-East markets are expanding
rapidly (taking as much as 20 percent of exports in 1974/5), while the share
of the-Eastern European market is expected to be-maintained. It is also
expected that the Nile Company and UPEHC will have exports of about 8,500 tons
of vegetables by 1980/81, mostly tomatoes and green beans. While this would
approximatelyqdouble Egypt's current exports of these commodities, it is a
very small amount in the context of total Western European consumption: an
FAQ study has estimated that Egypt could,conservatively expect a share of at
least 10,000 tons of the increase in consumption in Western Europe during the
period.
Agro-industries Credit Component
58.       Bank Misr (see paragraph 63 below), will serve as the agricultural
credit -institution through which the project funds will be onlent for NSPC and
the horticultural development components. In addition about $9.3 million will
be provided to Bank Misr as a credit allocation to help finance development in
the horticultural subsector by private, cooperative and public sector enter-
prises. This loan, together with funds which Bank Misr would lend from its own
resources,-would help develop processing, packaging and handling facilities in



- 21 -
an area which has long been severely constrained by lack of capital, especial-
ly foreign exchange, and is expected to help some such enterprises enter the
export market. In view of the average size of investments in the agro-indus-
trial subsector, only 10-15 loans could be made oyer 5 years from this limited
allocation. The component would, however, be a start to a more comprehensive
program of modernization of horticultural production and marketing that Govern-
ment intends to develop in the long run. Funds will be also provided to Bank
Misr for staff training, and to hire consultancy services for 12 man-months
to help develop its agroindustry development banking capability to carry out
its role in the Project. The technical assistance will have the additional
objective of enabling Bank Misr to help prepare further agricultural credit
projects for future consideration by the Bank or other sources of external
finance.
Project Cost and Financing 1/
59.       Total Project Cost is estimated at LE 63.8 million (US$108.1 mil-
lion) of which 46 percent or LE 29.5 million (US$50.0 million) would be
foreign exchange. Cost estimates are based on December 1975 costs, and
include an average 13 percent physical contingency for civil works and an
estimated 29 percent overall price contingency for the five year implementa-
tion period. Estimates are based on the parallel market exchange rate for the
Egyptian pound (para 13) in effect at the time of appraisal of LE 1 - $1.69.
In February 1976 the rate was changed to LE = $1.56, which is close to the
free rate prevailing in the Port Said Free Zone. The effect of the change
is to increase total project cost, measured in terms of Egyptian pounds, by
about 4 percent, and the local currency equivalent of the foreign exchange
component by nearly 9 percent. (The dollar equivalent total cost is reduced
by about 4 percent.) The change does not significantly affect the financial and
economic rates of return (see paragraph 69). Detailed project costs are shown
in Annex III.
60.        The Bank loan would finance 46 percent of the Project Cost, or US$50
million equivalent, representing 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The
Government would be the Borrower. The Bank loan would be on standard Third
Window terms. Government would use about US$15.5 million of the loan proceeds
to finance the Nubariya Main Outfall and sealing the Nasr Canal, and $0.3 mil-
lion for the Seed Certification Agency and the Vegetable Research Institute.
The Government would onlend to Bank Misr about US$34.2 million, at an interest
rate of 8.5 percent per annum and for a period of 15 years including 5 years
grace; the Government would bear the exchange risk (Schedule 4, Loan Agreement).
Bank Misr would in turn lend these funds to NSPC, PGC, El Wadi Company, Nile
Company and UPEHC and to other agroindustrial investors for fruit and vege-
table investments, under terms given in paragraph 64. These sub-projects were
1/   Because the parallel market exchange rate for the Egyptian pound,
LE 1 = $1.69, in force at the time of the appraisal mission, November
1975, was used to appraise this project, all conversion between
Egyptian pounds and dollars in this part of the Report are made at
that rate (paragraphs 13 and 59).



- 22 -
appraised by the Bank using the parallel market exchange rate, and shown to
be profitable at that-rate (see paragraphs 59 and 72). The parallel market
rate in force at the time of disbursement will be used to establish the
amount of the loans to sub-borrowers by Bank Misr, and to Bank Misr by the
Government, in respect of disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan
(provided in a supplemental letter). The use of the parallel market rate for
these purposes marks a small but significant step towards realistic pricing
of imported equipment. About 'US$66,000 would be used by Bank Misr to finance
the technical assistance which would help it set up an Agricultural Develop-
ment Lending Unit to promote and implement a medium- and long-term lending
program in the agricultural sector.
61.       The Government would contribute a total of LE 21.2 million (US$36.0
million) local exchange to the vegetable seed components, to construction of
the Nubariya Main Outfall, and to funding of UPEHC. Bank Misr would contribute
about LE 8.8 million (US$15 million) and individual subborrowers LE 4.2 million
(US$7.2 million) from their own resources for their respective investments.
The detailed financing plan is given in Annex III. The contribution by the
Government of LE 1.2 million equity to NSPC is a condition of effectiveness,
and contribution of LE 210,000 equity to UPEHC a condition of sub-loan dis-
bursement (Sections 3.02 and 6.01 and paragraph 4 to Schedule 1, Loan Agree-
ment). The Government will ensure that interim financing is available for
NSPC until the equity is subscribed.
Project Organization and Management
62.        The Government would be responsible for the organization and manage-
ment aspects of the Seed Certification Agency and Vegetable Research Institute
under the Vegetable Seed Production subproject. In addition it has established
a Project Unit within the Ministry of Irrigation to be responsible for the ex-
ecution of the drainage and irrigation civil works under the project in the
West Nubariya area. This would include in particular construction of the
Nubariya Main Outfall, relining of the Nasr Canal, and assisting NSPC in
other irrigation and drainage activities in the Seed Farm area. The Project
Unit would coordinate its work with the Ministry of Agriculture and NSPC. It
will be assisted by the technical consultants to be employed by NSPC for
drainage and irrigation works, and to be financed under the Project. The Unit
would be dissolved on completion of the project works and its responsibilities
regarding maintenance and operation of the completed infrastructure would be
assigned to the Ministry of Irrigation, the Ministry of Agriculture and to the
NSPC as appropriate.
63.       Bank Misr would lend funds to the sub-borrowers under the NSPC, Horti-
cultural Development and Agroindustrial Credit components, in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement (Section 2.01 and Schedule 1). Bank
Misr was established in 1920, and is the largest of Egypt's four commercial
banks, all of which are publicly owned. The Bank appraisal mission found it
to be a financially strong, well managed and efficient organization, with a
large network of branches. Until. the Banking Law was changed in 1975 its loans
were limited to terms not exceeding one year. Therefore its loan portfolio is



- 23 -
mostly for commercial and trading activities: the overall quality appears to
be good. Bank Misr has been successful in mobilization of deposits, particu-
larly from the private sector. Between 1971 and 1975 it was designated as
the bank for the agricultural sector, and developed close ties with the
sector through commercial activities and lending directly to farmers and to
the Credit Banks. Under the Project, Bank Misr will embark for the first
time in agricultural development term financing. Although it has some expe-
rience in analysis of investment proposals, it will need technical assistance
to develop an Agricultural Development Lending Unit, and will receive funds
under the project for that purpose and for overseas training of a few of its
staff members.
64.       Bank Misr will on-lend Bank funds, as well as make local currency
loans, both for development purposes and working capital, to the five identi-
fied sub-borrowers under the project. Through its Agricultural Lending Unit,
it would have a coordinating, supervision and financial responsibility for
these sub-loans, rendering assistance in project preparation as necessary.
For the Agro-industries Credit component of the Project, it would assume
complete responsibility. It will appraise all sub-loan applications under
this and the Horticultural Development components on the basis of economic
viability (including marketing prospects), technical feasibility, financial
soundness and satisfactory organization and management arrangements; no funds
would be provided for subprojects that do not meet these tests. Bank Misr
would extend such technical and managerial assistance to its borrowers as may
be necessary. It will seek prior Bank approval for subloans in excess of LE
150,000 ($250,000). On-lending interest rates under the Project will be not
less than 10 percent per annum for foreign exchange sub-loans, and not less
than 7.5 percent per annum for local currency (Schedule 1, Project Agreement)
The proposed interest rates are respectively 3 percent and 1/2 percent higher
than currently charged on loans to public sector companies. Repayment periods
will not be in excess of 15 years, including grace periods, in accordance
with projections of beneficiaries' cash flow and repayment capacities. Sub-
borrowers will be required to contribute at least 20 percent of sub-project
costs. World Bank funds would be used to meet the foreign exchange component
of sub-project costs. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Govern-
ment.
Procurement
65.       Major civil works for NSPC ($14.3 million total cost), including
sealing of the Nasr Canal, building of offices, stores and houses and construc-
tion of tile drains, would be procured by NSPC, with the technical advice of
the Project Unit, on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to Bank Guidelines. ICB would also be used by the Project Unit for
civil works for the Nubariya Main Outfall ($41.7 million) including structural
construction.



- 24 -
66.       Procurement for completion and rehabilitation of the irrigation
network of the seed farm ($9.4 million) would be by NSPC on the basis of
local competition according to local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
These small and varied works, scattered throughout the Project area, are
not.suitable for internat'ional competition, and would more be effectively
implemented by local contractors. Equipment, farm machinery and vehicles
for NSPC, PGC, El Wadi, Nile Company and UPEHC, and civil works for PGC, El
Wadi Nile and UPEHC, would be procured by the subborrowers. Where possible
items would be bulked in lots of over $250,000 to attract wide interna-
tional competition: p'rocurement for these lots would follow ICB. Lots
under US$250,000 equivalent would be procured by the 'subborrowers locally
or abroad after quotations have been invited from at least three sources of
supply. It is expected that about $22.3 million of these items would be
under ICB, while $18.5 million would be in the second category. Equipment
for the Seed Certification Agency, and the Vegetable Research Institute,
totalling about $400,000, of which not more than US$250,000 is expected to
be committed in any year, would be procured by these agencies after quota-
tions have been invited from at least three sources of supply. Consulting
and engineering services under the Project, totalling $1.5 million, would
be hired by the agencies concerned in accordance with the Bank's procedures.
Disbursements
67.       Bank disbursements would extend over five years.    Disbursement will
be on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditure, except (a) for equip-
ment, vehicles, etc. procured locally (either imported or locally manufactured)
for which it will be 70 percent of total expenditures, and (b) for the few
civil work contracts in which local and foreign expenditures cannot be
separately identified, 35 percent of total expenditures.
Project Benefits and Justification
68.       Financial rates of return calculated for the major-sub-projects
(apart from the Nubariya outfall), range from 15 percent for NSPC to 48 per-
cent for citrus and vegetable packing plants. These rates of return are
sufficiently high to make the proposed investment in each of the'sub-projects
attractive even after allowing for the effect on the cost estimates of the
change in the parallel market exchange rate.
69.       The proposed Project is expected to generate substantial benefits in
terms of production and institution building. Taken as a whole the proposed
project components are expected to generate an annual net increment in produc-
tion of about LE 52 million ($88 million) including an increase of about 10%
in annual vegetable production in Egypt from use of the improved vegetable
seeds produced by NSPC. Direct net incremental annual export earnings from
the export earning components would be about $3 million. In addition there
would be import savings from the vegetable seed and potato cold store projects
of about $7 million annually. NSPC's production of tomatoes and peas for seed



- 25 -
would as a by-product also contribute to full utilization of existing idle
processing capacities for tomatoes and peas. The Project would contribute
significantly in institution building throughout the horticultural subsector,
by creating an efficient basis for a modern seed production industry, promot-
ing research and laying the base for a more efficient agricultural development
credit system in Egypt.
70.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 38 percent for the
Seed Production component, the cost of which is $31.3 million, 19 percent
for the Nubariya Outfall costing $41.7 million, and 35 percent for the
horticultural and agro-industries components, costing $35.0 million. The
overall economic rate of return is estimated at about 33 percent.
Employment and Farm Incomes
71.       The proposed project is expected to generate a total of about
10,000 to 15,000 new jobs at full development. Approximately 5,000 jobs will
be created on the seed farm. In addition, small increases in employment are
likely to be generated by the other horticultural sub-projects, while the
Nubariya Drain, by increasing fertility of the reclaimed lands, will permit
further agricultural development and thus increase employment.    The vegetable
seed and potato components will aid production and hence, since vegetable
production is widely spread, farm incomes throughout Egypt (FAO estimated
agricultural income per capita at about LE 30 or $75 at the official exchange
rate in 1970). Also the extra production will help utilize a significant part
of Egypt's currently underutilized vegetable processing capacity.
Environment
72.       The Nubariya Drain component will have a substantial positive envi-
ronmental effect, in reduction of waterlogging and salinity of the reclaimed
lands, and improvement of the water quality of the Nubariya Canal. The pro-
ject will not create environmental problems, apart from the possible spread of
bilharzia in the Seed Farm. Bilharzia is a concomitant of irrigation in Egypt,
and the Bank is supporting the Government 's program of bilharzia control,
through a component of the Upper Egypt Drainage Project. The Government will
monitor the risk of bilharzia in the West Nubariya area, and undertake neces-
sary preventative measures within the framework of its overall program.
Conclusion
73.       The proposed project will have substantial effects on increasing and
improving Egypt's horticultural production and exports, and reducing imports,
and increasing rural incomes through improved vegetable yields, while laying
the basis for developing horticultural production, in which Egypt has compara-
tive advantage. The Project will aid institution building through development
of a vegetable seed industry and seed certification machinery, and agroindus-
trial credit facilities. It will help form the basis for a vegetable export



- 26 -
industry which has the capability for further development in future years,
given Egypt's ability to produce high-quality vegetables during the European
winter. The main risks relate to the complex nature of the project, and the
number of different entities responsible for it (although each, apart from
NSPC, has experienced competent management). A particular risk concerns the
fact that NSPC has still to be fully set up, and all its management appointed.
Although a decree creating the Corporation has been issued, and the General
Manager appointed, delay in its becoming fully operational could lead to delay
in project implementation. The establishment of NSPC and appointment of its
management are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01,
Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Bank Misr, the recom-
mendation provided for in -Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan. are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special in-
terest are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
76.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are as follows (Section
6.01, Loan Agreement):
(a) Ratification of the Project and Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
as appropriate;
(b) that NSPC has been duly and validly established in accordance
with the laws of the Borrower and has commenced operations,
the Borrower has made available to NSPC the first installment
of its contribution to NSPC's equity, and that the land for
the seed farm has been transferred or leased to NSPC;
(c) that NSPC has engaged the services of irrigation consultants,
and the Field Director, Irrigation and Drainage Director and
Vegetable and Potato Seed Director of NSPC have been appointed.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and with the established criteria for Third Window
loans.



- 27 -
Recommendations
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 17, 1976






LAOS AREA (VOM                            ......... . ..
*                           L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tiV,               R(?CRCNCE COUNTRIES (19103
TOTAL 160.4 MlOST RtECNT
ARAfLE      S5.6                     1910       lor0    IT KNAVt"       PHILIPPINES   lStHtty       SPAIN   -
.............................. .............. .......... _--* .....----------  ------------
5'VP PER CAPITA IUS61                   110.0      210.0      35.6              22z.0      416.0      1266.0
POPULATIONI AND VItAL STAISTI$tCS
POPULATION (MIDo-. MILLION)            25.6       33.3       35.6              36.9       35.2        33.6
POPJLATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE : N.                      26.0 a     J.0        36.0             123.0       45.0        65.6
PER SQUARE b9N. ARABLE LAND           *-       93r7.0    100.0-                *-       40.0
VITAL STATISTICS
C      JUDE 60TH: RATE PER THOUSAND  43.0       35.0       SS.6              45.0        6.6        19.6
CRUDE DEATH iRATE PCI THOUsAND      1r. o       i5.O       1.0               12.0       1.          .5
INrxNT HOltSLItT RAtE LITHOU)      109 0      116.0       103.6              60.0      145.0       21.9
LIVE EXPEC7NCT0 A gIRTH friso       53.0        50.0       53.0              S6.0       55.5/b     76.0
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE              Z.8 A       3.0        5.0               3.3        2.N7J       1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IX)
TOTAL                                2.4        2.s         2.5               3.0        2.s        4.1.
JRASN                                6.0        3.6         3.5               6.0        4.5         t.0
URSA: POPULATION (x or TOTAL)          38.0       42.        43.0              32.0        39.0       49.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
3 TO 14 EARS                       43.0 b      44.0         ..              43.0        1.         2.
15 TO 64 YEARS                      54.0        52.0         ..             1S.0        31.9        69.S
65 YEaRS AND OVER                    3.0         4.0         ..               4.0        4.3         9.7
AGE ONE    E;OECY RAT,0                0.9         0.9         ..               0.9         0.9        0.6
ECONOMIC DEPEIIENCY RaTIO              1.6         1./         ..               1.6         L.        16.
FAMILY PLANNING-
CCEPTORS (CuMULATIVE. THOU)            ..      200.0         ..             409.0      484.0 Ld
JSERS ts o, IARRIED OINEN)            ..          ..        9.0               6.0        8.Z 
ECPLOfNENT
....*......
TOTAL LAOOR FORCE (THOUSANDSI       0soo.0 /    8300.0 4Ib 9500.0           12300.0    14500.0 /a  19qio.0
LABOR FORCE IN ADRICULTURNE (1         5r.o/c     53.0 f b   47.0              51.0       67.0        14.6
UNE8PLOYEO (I OF LAsOR FORCE)          5.0         3.0        2.OL             Y.0        4.0 If      2.01
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
............ . .....
Z OF PRIYkTI INC3ME RECeoD B-
HIGHEST  Sx OF POPULATION           19.2                                                1 ..  ..  ..  32.6
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION            4.4 d                                              A .  ..  60.6t5 *
L3IEST  20X OF POPJLATION            4.6 /        ..         ..                *         2.9
LOWEST  401 OF POPULATION            14.1 4       ..         ..                *.        9.41*
OISTrI3UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I DRNED Hr TOP I3J OF  dNERS             ..         ..         ..                ..       5S3.0
X DANE) dr SMALLEST I02 OWNERS          ..          .          .                 ...9
HEALTH AND NuTRITIUN
eoPJLATION PER PHYSIC IA            25O0.0-0/4 -  tI904oS  182   4/          2700.0     2220.0       rso.01/
POPULATION PER qJRsING PERSOI      2zIa.0Li.' 1640.OLS    1120.:0L           1910.0            /h  1430.0
POPJLATION PER HOSPITAL dED           500.0!6    460.0      460.0             850.0      490.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REGJIRENENTS)        95.0        94.0      100.0              05.0      110.0      IO.O
PROTEIN (GRANS PER OAT)             66.0        66.0       69.0              45.0       78.0        61.0
-OF  HICH ANIAL ANO PULSE         ir.011      16.0         *-              22.0       22.0 /f    40.0
DEATH AATE I/THOJ) AGES 1-4            39.0         ..         ..               1.0       15.0 /b      0.9
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIW"AF SCHOOL                       66.0       ro00         *-             119.0      111.0        63.0
SECONDARY SCHOJL                    16.0       IJ.0          .. 3              .0       28.0        49.0
YEARS or SCHOOIING PROVIDED
ErIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)            12.0        12.0       12.0              JO.0       11.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL NRO__WENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                     22.0       19.0       19.0              10.0/ab    14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (0 20.0                         ..       40.0              72.0        5.0 /1     94.0
HOUSINCG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              1.6         ..         ..                ..         1.9
OCCJPIEO D WLLINGS WItHOUT
PIPED WATER                          60.0/h      ..          ..              66.0 /b    64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL OWE  INGS)                 38.0/h       ..         ..              23.0 /b    *1.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
T3 ELECTRICITY (X)                    ..          ..         ..               6.0 /b    18.0
CONSUNPT ION
...........
RADIO RECEIVERS *PER THOU POP)                   132.0                        4L.0         69.)      214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        4.0        5.0               8.0         4.0       70.
ELECTRICITY (KWH/TR PER CAPI          102.0      226.0      23s0.0            25.0       244.0      1627.0
NEWSPRINT (XG/yR PER CAP)               1. 3       1 .0       1                 1-5 1!      0.1        .6
SEE NOTES AND  DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



P age2o  Pages
flOa
Inless otherwise notad, date for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1966-70, and for Moat Recent getisate to 1971-73.
Spain's succeseful diversification of Its econemic structure, degree of imdustrialination and develspmsnt of tourises makes It an appropriate
"objective" country.
EGYPT               1960    Ia  1950-55;    /b  Excluding population of email agglamretions in the frontier districts;      Ic  Figure relates to pnonms
ste years and over, excludes namad population;    /d  1964-65, hoseeholda;     I.  1962;   Tf   Including assistant nurses
end midwives;    /&  1960-62;    lb  Urban only.
1970    /s  1966;    /b Rsiates to 12-64 years of age;     Ic  Registered, not all practicing Is the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIVATE' Las May 1972; /b Registered, not all practicing in the country.
PHIIPPINES          1970    la  Public education only;    lb  Z 67;    Ic   Dmports only.
TURKEIY             1970    Ia  Excludes 17 isotera provinces;     lb  1965-67;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 yearn
___ __ed ove,r;    Id 1964 - June 1974, 86 percet beinj'-lUDs;      /e  is yearn and over, excludes unmployed:     /f  Registered
only;    jg 'Disposable Income of houaeholds;    /h   Including assistant nurses end midwives'    1i  1964-66;
fl Persons Ai. years old and over who tell the census takers that they ten read and write.
SPAIN               1970   'ia  Registered unemployed;   /b  Registered, not all practicing In the country.
65 February 18, 1976
DEPFlI'fIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
land Area (thou los )                                       Pomastion nor~~~ nursing orso  - Population divided by number of practicing
Ttl-Ttlsurfa;ce area comprising land area and inland waters,                    i     anfemie graduat    onures, ",trained"' or "certified" nurses, sad
drbl  .Mot recent estinate of. loand area uoedS&emporarily or pernanently           auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, marbet and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.          To2   tionper hoegital bed - Population divided by, number of hospital beds
avial     i n public andi pr-ivate geunral and specialized hospital and
081' oc  aIta (        GS)  ON per capita estimates- at market prices, colts-         rehabilitation centers ; excludes nursing bomes and establishronts for
atd by san  conversion method as Wlorld Bank Atlas (1972-74 basils),             custodial and preventive care.
Per aptasuppDly of calories (S ofLrquiemets) - Computed from energy
atind         I v ta stti tic                                                   eialnt of net food aupp1ias ovailable in couLntry per capita per day;
'on F.= -  __~ c"Aaof July firstt if not available, average             availabletsupplies comprise domestic productitn, inports less exports,
of two emd-year entimates.                                                         and changes in stocki net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities
used in food processing and losseso in distribution; requirements wore
Population density-kpo   mqur   o  - Mid-year population per square kilo-             estimated by FAO based on pbysiological needs for normal activity
mater (100 hoctares) o5tota   area,                                                 and health considering envinorimetal temperature, bod  weights, age and
Population density - per square kon of arable land - Computed as above for           sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% f or waste at household
arable land only.                                                                  level.
Per apia suplyof poten (rams per day) - Protein content of per
Vital cta'istics                                                                     cait   netFNsupplyof  food p1er  a;ntspl       of food is defined as
Crud birh rae pr thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-              above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
1975 for developing countries,.                                                    protein per day, and 20 gramn of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death ratelper thousand - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year               gramst should be animal protein, these standards are lower than. those of
population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                75 grans of total protein and 23 grams of ainial protein as an average
for developing countries,                                                          for the world, proposed by FAD in the Third World Food Survey.
I,1Fa,,,ortaIF   rate '/thoui) -Ainncal deaths of inftant under one year       Prc     Pit  rotein supply fron animalL and pulLse - ProteiLn supply of food
o  e   cus)d yie birthe.                                                     dekrived from animals and pulses~ in groan par day.
Life expectancy at birth (Yrn) - Average number of yearn of life remain-           Det      aeUhu        gs1     - Annual deaths per thousand in age grouip 1-4
to  tbrh  us 'taIly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and              yer,to chide         n  this age group; suggested as an indicitor of mal-
1975 for developing countriss.                                                     nutrition.
Gros rprouctonrate - Average number cf.live daughters a woman will
beri       e   omlrpoutv period if sha experiecces present ago-                  Education
specific fertility rates; usawlly five-year averages ending in 1960,             Adj    sted orollmntratioc -primr shool - El'ollmant of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                            prcntg     ofpimr          scolae population; includes childbren aged
Populationr gothi rite()- total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-               6-11 yerar but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
yerppltio  f or 1951-60, l9tO-70, end 1960 to most recent year.               for countries with universal education, enrollment nay exceed 100%
Pop-ulation growth rate (9) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total             since some pupils  are belorw or above the official school age.
population; different def'initions of urban areas cup affect compare-            AWdjustdenroletrto- secondaLry school - Computed as above; second-
bility of data among countries.                                                    ar    dction requires at least fur years of approved primary instruc-
Ilrhn poul-ation (9 of totul) - Patio of urban to total population; dif-             tion; provides ganeral, vocational or teacher training instruictions for
frrdeiitions of urban areas may affect comparability of-data                 puipils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                    excluded.
Ag    6~E~rcmi,) - Children (0-14 years); working-age (15-6k years)          Years of schooling Provded,(first sand second levels) - Tota1 years of
M   .T  ea   re ndaver) as percentages of mid-year population,               schooling;  tscnaylvl           ueimlisrcinmyb                 atal
Age dODpec        ai      Natio of population under 15 and 65 and over to            or completely excluded.
thoseofagewc       tugn 6L.                                                      Vocational'enrollment (9 of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
Economic dependecy ratio - Ratio of' population under 15 and 65 and over              technical, induistrial or other programs which operate independently or
To the labor foceIn ago    group of 15-6k years.                                   as departments of secondary institutions.
1'amily plAn,,ine - acceptors (cumnulntive. thlou) - Cumulative number of          Adult literacy rate (9) - Literate adtults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices under auiplces of national family               rentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family Planning - users (9 of married wonen) - Percentages of married              Housing
womeng of rnid-beering age fl5-Lli years) who use birti-control de-               Persons oer roon  avers e) - Average number of persons per room In occupied
vcsto all married womne nc sane age group,                                      conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellingo exclude non-pernanent
E,PI2                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~structures and unoccupied ptart.
-=nt                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied dwellincs witout PiPed wter t(I) - Occupied conventional dwell-
Tota   labor for   d- Economically active persons, including                  ings in urban and     ral ara   ihu    nide or orutside piped water
areed7ifore san duiiiPby1je)d but excluding housewives, students, etc.;             facilities as percentaage of all occupiedsdwellings.
definitions it. various countries are not comparable.                            Access to electrii4ty(ofaldeigs             -Cca     toulwlins        ih
Labor ooe    nagiutre 9) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                     electricity in liigquarter     as percent of total dwellings in urban
for      i h an  fishng) as percentage of total labor force. -and rural areas.
Unalcyed (%of la nr      force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons         Rural wejllgs conneted to electricity (9) - Computed as above for rural
v    are abla and w-ilng to take a job, out of a 3ob on a given day,              dwelligs onl.
restainod out of a iob, a,,d seeking work for a specified minimum
period cot exceeding one week; may not be nomparable between cous-                Consuomption
tries due to dlffera,,t definitions of une96leyed and source of data,            Radio receivers (pr-thou pop) - All types of receivers for radios broad-
e.g., employme,nt office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory omen-              oasis -to generalepubli  per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ploynent insurance.                                                                receivers in countries and to years when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for rment years nay not be comparable since most noun-
Incone distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                 tries abolished licensing,
kind) received by richest 5%, r-ichest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest              PafiLfcars       er- th- ou ) - Fns.enger cars comprise motor cars seating
k09 ef population.e                                                                              htpersons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Distrihutio,, of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest          ElcrciY(h4            a       - Annual consumptiton of industrial, comwe-
10% and poorest. In% of lend owers,                                                  il    pbi   and pr voteelectricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowance for losses io grids
Health and Nu;trition                                                                but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Popuolaton per  hviin- Population      dividied by number of practicing             )jg.fatt,(j;g  pr cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
prscasqualifed from a medical school at un~iversity level.                    e     is   rmdomestic production plus not imports of newsprint.



*        ***T!                                   EGYPT                                   IRFERENCE COUNIRIES (1970)
TOTALi      1001.4                                           NOST RECENT
ARAWL         35.1                          1910       It?$     ESTINATI            PHILIPPINES     TURNEI           SPAtN
lip PER CAPITA  (USS)  136.0        210.6        350.6               ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~28.0  456.0  12Am.,
POPULATION (RIDV1R. MILLION)                 25.6         35.3         35.1                 SA.9         13.2         33.1
POPULATIN     ENIT
PERSQUR       R                            21.0         3 3.10       30.0                123.          45.0         1.
PER SQUARi IIM. ARtARLE LAND                 ..       937.        1001.0                              1450.0'a
VITALoSTATITC
CUD    GRTH RATE PER THOUSAND              43.0         35.0         35.0                 45.0         36.04!       1.
CRO  elT RiATC PER THOUSAND            17.0         15.0         13.0                  12.0         13.0 i.        .
INFANT NOATALItT RATE      M/HOU)        109.0        111.0        103.6                  60.0        145.0         2r.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT mIRTH (VIRS)            510           00           30                   0.Lb.4                   71.01
GROSS REPROOUCIION RATE                    2.    j        .           503.32IL 
POPULATION GROWHYMRATE (5)
0TOTL                                      2. 4         2.5          2.3                   3.          2..           1.1:
JRBAN                                       6.0          3.6          3.5                  4.           4.5          ' 
URBAN POPULATION (I Of TOTAL)                38.0         42.0         43.0                  32.0         39.0        49.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
aI TO  4 YEARS                           43.0      ~  44.             `. 3.                           41.0         2f.*
t3 TO 14 YEARNSV                          34.0         52.00.                             35.0o        53.9         IR
13 YEA, aNs    OVER                         30 1?       4.0                                A . 0        4.: 3'       9.7
AGE OEPENOCAC! RATIO                          0.9          0.9           ..0.9                             0.9          0.1
ECO4OMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO5.                          1.      7 I.?                            1.1          1.14         11
FAMILY PLANNING-
AC CEPTORS (CUMqULATIVE.   THOU)             ..       200.0            ..                 09.03       404. D /
USERIS  I OF MARRIED d0NEN)                  ..                       9.0                  0.0          6. 2
E VPLODYMENMr
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAWOSI             761000 Ic      300.0 L!1.  95000               12300.0      14500.0 /a   110 0.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)   57.~~~~~0 53.0 Lk         4705.0                            10             4.
UNEM4PLOYED (X Of LABOR FORtCE)               3.0          3.0          2.OL                   .040             f       2.4
1NCONE DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INC3RE REC~O      BY-                                                              .         36/
HGHEST   51: OF POPULATION                19.2L .d        .12
LJ:EST   20 13F POPULATION                  4.1.                        ..                              2:9:
LOWES t  40X OF POPULATION                 14.1 9A.....
OISTRIAUTION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
1 D~~NE0 BY TOP 1)1 OF DiNERS  ..  ..          ..                   .. ~~~~~~~~~53. 0
Z OONED ay SMALLEST 101 OWNERS                 .             ....0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITI3N
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   2500.04!     1910. 04c-   1620.04              2710.0       2220.0        750.0 /b
POUATION PRN         SING PERSON          2001         14.QI        15200L               100          iaook         43.
POPJLATIOM PER HOSPITAL dEO                 50o:o2i'     460.0L       410 .0               65.0         400          220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOIE     IOFRE0J;REMENTS)                9.            40        1008.                               1.           0.
PROTEIN (GRMS      ER OA)                   6.0o        11.00       690,0                 45.': 0      76.          61.0 :I:
F W'HIC      ANIMAL RHO PULSE           17.04j       11.0           ..22.0                          22.0 /I      40.0
DEATH aATE (/TNOJ) AGES 1-4                  39.0           ...                                .0        15.0 lb        0.9
EOUCEAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMAH Y SCHMOOL                           11.0        r0. 0           ..119.0                        111.0         63.0
SECONaARY SCH0DL                          11.0          13.0           ..45.0                          28.0         49.0
TEARISOF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(IRST AND SIEC3D LEVEL)                  12.0         12.0         12.0                  10.0         01.0         13.0
VOCA INAL  NRO..NENT
(I OF SECONOART                            2Z.0         19.0         19.0                 I 0. 0/ ab   14.0         20.0
ADUL T LITERACY RATE ( 1)                    20. 0                     40.0                 72.0          Ss. 0LI      94.0
HOUSING
P_ERSO;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                   1.1            ....                                          1.9
O CCJP IED DWC_LL INGS W ITHOUT
PIPED  WATER                               60.0/k         ...                             66.0 lb      14.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(OF ALL DWE-.INGS)                      36.0/h                                          Z1..2.0 /b   41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICTTY (Z)                           ....6.0 /b                                                l6.0a
CONSUAPT ION
RIADIo RECEIVERS (PER THOu POP)              Ss.         1 32.0       14 3.0                 43.          69.0         14.
PASSE G-R CRS     PER T HOU POP)              30           a.05.                             60           4.0         700
ELECTRICITY (AKW/YR PER CAP)                102.0        226.0        230.0                235.0        244. 0      1697.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     1.3I         1. 0         1 .3                  1 .  La/     0.7p         5.6
SEE 4OrES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



PoPe2o       ages
-to
Unless otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970"to 1968-70, and for Most latent Ea,timate to 1971-73.
54SPain's successful divrersfication of Ito ecnosoic structure, degree of induscrislisetioe and development af tourism makas it an appropriate
'obJectiv"! country.
EGYPT                1960     /a  1950-55;     lb-' Riecluding Population of_'Mell aggiswretioa In thn frostier districts;         /c  Figure relates to perons
six years and over, secludes nmsed population;       /d   1964-65, households:     is   1962;    7f   Including assistant nurses
end midwives;     Ig   16-2        /burban only.
1970     /a  1966      /b  Relates to 12-64 years of age;      /c  Raistetred. not all practicing in the countrv.
MOST RECENT ESTIDATE     /a  Kay 1972:     /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
PHTLIPPINKS          1970     /s  Public education'only;      /b  1967;     /c  Imports only.
TURKEY                1970    /a  Excludes 17 Eastern provinces;       /b  1965-67;     Ic  Ratio of population raider 15 and' 65 aid over to labor force age 15 years
and over;     /d  1964 - June 1974, 86 percent being lUDa;       /e   IS yearn and over, secludes unemployed:      If   Registered
only;     IA  Disposable incam of households;        Lb  Including assistant nurses and midwives;       It  1964-66;
fl Persons six yeasr old and over ..ha tell the cemeux takers that they can reed and wits.
SP6IN                 1970    /a  Registered unemployed;    /b  Registered, not ell piacticlng in the country.
RS February IN, 1976
DlV1ZIffONS O? SOCIAL IDICOATORS
___nd_Arm__(thou                                                                        Pop)aton Per nursin prson - Population divided by number of practicing
Ttl-Ttlsurface area comprising lend area and Inland waters.                        male nd feaegaute nurs, "trained" or "certified5 nurses, snd
Arbl a~tt recent estimate of land area used temporarily or permanently                   auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
f'or cultivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to lits fellow.                    tijonper hoes lal bd' PopuUlato      divided by number of hospital bode
avat  to pu     a   private georral and specialized hospital and
oINr' ercPita (0*     _- ON? per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-                 rehabilitation centers;j excludes nursing homes and establishments for
Iatd bnaeconversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-7b basis).                         cuntodial-and peetv         as
Per cap.ita, supply of calorie   I of requieensa       Computed from energy
Ppult,io,n ad vital statistics                                                             euvlnot of net foo      splies availabemintconr         per capita per day;
ouato  i-Vr. Million) - As of July first; if not available, average                available supplies comprise dorastic producticonunimports less exports,
of two sod-year estimates.                                                              and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed,, 'seeds, quantities
P02                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were
PopulaiToTndenity- p rsquare kom- Mid-year population per square kilo-                    estimated by fAO based on pbysiological needs far normal activity
metr (00  ecare) o  toalarea.                                                     and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Population density' - per square Ion of arable land - Computed as above for                sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
arb    ladoly,                                                                          level.
Per capita.supply of prte     n (camsper dLay) - Protein content of per
Vital sta'istics                                                                           capita net suplyL ot foo   peia;nt supply of food is defined as
rruTe TIF    per thousand -Annual live births per thousand of mid-                    above; requIrements for all countries established by USDA kconomic
year poulton       suly five-yeatr averages ending,i to    960d, 1970Cend                Research Bonvitos provide for a minimumo allowance of 60 gramns of total
197S fr developing countries,                                                           protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crtide death rite odr thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                    grams should be animal protein, these standards are lower than those of
population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end' 1975                    75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an average
for developing countries,                                                               for the world, proposed by, FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
'nf.t.e-rtaibraPte /Ithou) - Annual deathB of infants under one year                Pa  aiapoenspl             rmanimal and pulse - Protein aupply of food
o  pr I   .uan   lvs birthqr.                                                     dE%rivodfroma   nima.l s and pulses In grams per day..
Life expectancy at birth CyrA) - 'Average number of years of life remain-                reate r    Ithou      n1     - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4,
tog at birth; 'cotrally five-'year averages eodiog in 1960, 1970 and                    years, to chlrni         hs age group; suggested as an indicator of msal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                          nutrition.
Gros  reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
ecar on ernrmal reproductive period if 'she experiences present age-                  Education
specific fertility rates; usually fivs-year averages ending in 1960,                  Adutderloatrto-piayshool - Ehrollment of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developinig countries,                                                percentage of primr     scol-ae po0pulation; includes children aged
Popula tion growh rate (~-total -Compound annual growth rates of mid-                     6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary edtration;
year popstion for 1950-60, 196-0-70, ad 1960 to most rweent year.                        for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Populatioqngrwt rate CE) - urban - Computed like growth rats of total                     since some pupils    are below or above the official school age.
populaio; diferent dei-initions of urban areas nay affect compara-                    Adjustedkenrollment ratio - secondary school - Comnputed as above; second-
bility of data among countries.                                                          ar   dcation requires at least for year      of approved primar-y instruc-
Urban population (5 of total) 7 Ratio of urban to total population; dif-                   tios; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
ferer t definitions of uirban areas may affect 'comparability of data                   pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                         excluded.
_Mestrctue (ercnt)- Chiildren (0-lI years), working-age (15-64 years),          'Years of schooling prvded (fis an         eodlvl)-Total years of
and r    ffred (5y-      n  over) as percentages of mid-year population.                 schoolIng; at seodr       ee,vcatioaml instruction may be partially
A   pre  Dndnc            Reto   to of population under 15 and i5 and over to              or completely excluded.
those of agesFlV'thcugh 6L,                                               '            Vocational enolet(5osecondary) - Vocational institutions include
Econoi dopendency ratio - Ratio of' population under 15 an        5adoe                     ehia,idsra             r other programs which operate independently or
ithlao force in age 'group of 15-64 year'se..                                    as departranots of secondary institutions.
Fmily planning - acceptors, (cumulative, thou) - Ctueulative number of                 Adult literacy rate (5     - Idterate adults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices ':nder auspices of national family                    eantage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program oince inception.
Famiy plnnin  -  sers(9o  moriedwomen,) - Percentages of maried               Rousisc
wome  ofrhid-barin  ag  (1-hiyears) who use birth-control de-                Persons per ruoom  averae) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
vices to all married women in saneage group,                                                          dueveningsl in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.             I
Emoloyment                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied dwelling  without piped water (5) - Occupied conventional dwell-
Total labor force (tosn)-Economically active parsons, includi~ng                           ings in urban an d Mrura  areas without inside or outside piped water
armed ~forces and 'nemloyed but excluding housewives, students, eta.                     faciliisa        ecitg       falmuiddelrs
dofinitions it. various countries are not compa]rable.                                A       itins  as plercentM qrage of allioccupie   dwnell oaldeings.wt
Labor force in agriculture (9     - Agricultural labor force (in farmlng,-                 electricity in- lvn    quresapercent of total dwell-ings in urban
f-orestry, hunting and f      ishig  ats percentage.of total labor fm-ca                 and rural areas.
Use   1  ed oif labor force) - Unemployed are us.ually defined as periono                ERura dullncocnetdt           lcrct        9       optda       bv     o   ua
wli are ahle und willing to t.ake a job, out of a job on a given day,                    guofng       only.     dt      lcrciy()-Cmue                a   bv    o   ua
remained cut of a Job, a-d seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may sot be -omparable botween coun-                     Consumption
tries doe to differolit definitions of uner96loyed and source of data,                Rdoreceivers       erthouo) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
e.g., emPloYtoent office statistics, sample stutveys, compulsory omen-                   caststo generai pu      c  per thousad of population; excludes usmlicensed
p1oyr,ent insuxrance,                                                                    receivers in countries and in years then registration of radio sets eas
in effect; data for recant years may not be comparable since moet coun-
Income distribuition" - Percentage of prinats income (both is cash and                     trles ibolished licensing.
kind) received by- richest 5%, r-ichest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                 Passesecas          rthu       )-Psngrascopiemorassaig
40t of population,                                                                                 eih persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Distribution- of land owneship - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest                Eletr- IAnnual consumption of industrial, conne-
10% and poorest, 109 of land owners.                                                  -ciaIPuhi.        iiiitie eectricity' in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on prodtuction data;, without allowance for losses in grids
Health and NRutrition                                                                      but allowing far imports and exports of electricity.
POPulatio    er.   scian - population     div,ided by number of practicing-,             N-p jjtjkg0g mr          ca)-Prcpta annual consumption in kilograms
plqua       ea  ron a medical school at university level,                                     o  domestic production plus not 'impwrts of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974.- US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (M. constant prices)
US $ Mln.     %                             1960-65      1965-70     1970-73     1974
GNP at Market Prices           10,109    100.0                             6.6         3.8         3.0         3.8
Gross Domestic Investment       1,894     18.7                            11.0        -1.1         8.8        26.4
Gross National Saving 2/          310      3.1                              -           -            -          -
Current Account Balance 2/     -1,584    -15.6                              -           -           -
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,196     21.7                             5.0         1.9        (3/)        (3/)
Imports of Goods, NFS           3,823     37.8                             8.0         1.0        (3/)        (3/)
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added-                  Employment                 V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.                   Mln.                          US $          %
Agriculture                     3,187     34.2            4.21        46.6                757         73.4
Industry and Mining             1,933     20.7            1.15        12.7              1,681       162.9
Electricity                       123      1.3             .04         0.4              3,075       298.0
Construction                      345      3.7             .31         3.4              1,113       107.9
Distribution Sector             1,352     14.5            1.29        14.3              1,048       101.6
Services Sector                 2.389     25.6            2.04        22.6              1.171       113.5
Total/Average                9,329    100.0            9.04       100.0              1,032       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                   Central/Federal Government
($ Mln.)              % of GDP
19745/         1974         1969-71-/
Current Receipts                     2,926          31.6           21.3
Current Expenditure                  3.105          33.5           20.7
Current Surplus                       -179          -1.9            0.6
Emergency Fund 7/                    1,308          14.1            9.2
Capital Expenditures                 1,492          16.1           11.7
External Financing (net)               202           2.2           -0.4
1/  The Per Capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1975 World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
2/  Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
3/  Accurate constant price growth rates are not available due to insufficient information concerning
trade deflators.
4/ At current factor costs.
5/ Preliminary figures.
6/ 1969-71 current receipts and expenditures not comparable with 1974 data because of differences in
methodology.
7/  A Government account for special defence facilities and reconstruction, funded by Arab grants and
earmarked revenue receipts. The operations of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
-2-
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                          1971             972                            1974
(Million LB Outstanding  d Period)
Money and Quasi Money                           1,166           1,345           1,633           2,114
Claims on Oovernment                            1,342           1,469           1,656           2,038
Claims on Non-Government Sector                   549             553             531             788
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                36.0            39.7            44.9            53.2
Consumer Price Index (1966/67 - 100)             113.6 I/        117.4          122.4           135.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                              4.o 1/          2.8            4.3            10.0
Claims on Government                             13.6             9.5            12.7            23.1
Claims on Non-Government Sector                   5.0             0.7            -4.0           48.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-74)
1972     1973     1974                                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
RAw Cotton                       - 545    40.7
Exports of Goods              813    1,003    1,674            Yarns and textiles                 218     16.3
Imports of Goods            1,286    1.6602/ 3 4282/           Rice                                73      5 5
Trade Balance (deficit - -)   3       -657  -1,754             All other comnodities             502     37.5
Total                      1,338    100.0
Services, Net                   7        7-     170
Net Transfers                  295     727, 1.2582/             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account    -l7      77     -326
US $ Mln
Net MLT Borrowing                                                 Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed   2,760
Disbursements              417      362      522
Amortization               294      420      654
Subtotal                  1-2-3     -58     -132                                       3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
Other Non.-Monet,arr(tapital  21      -13       -53                                                      %
(net)                   -         -     -
Overall Balance (surplus +)   -27        6     -5)1               Public Debt Outstanding &'Disbursed   32.3
Gross reserves                              356
(end of year)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through JanuaX'l1973
'US $ 1.00 = B6E 0.435;-
1.00 = us j2.30
Since February 1973
US $ 1.00 .LE 0.390
1.00 = US $2.56
1/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis, figure refers to "fiscal" year 1970/71.
2/ Includes the market value of petroleum grants.
3t Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
EMNA Region
May 1, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31. 1976)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                            Less cancellations
Numbers          Year   Borrower   Purpose                      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR       1959     SCA      Suez Canal Expansion         56.5    --       --
Cr 181-UAR       1970    UAR       Nile Delta Drainage         --       26.0     10.4
Cr 284-UAR       1972    ARE       Railways                     --      30.0      3.7
Cr S-13-UAR_/    1972    ARE       Cotton Ginning Engr.        --        0.2     --
Cr 393-UAR       1973    ARE       Upper Egypt Drainage        --       36.0     28.3
Cr 412-UAR       1973    ARF       BOA                         --       15.0      5.8
Cr 423-UAR       1973    ARE       Cotton Ginning              --       18.5     10.1
Cr 437-UAR       1973    ARE       Population                  --        5.0      4.8
Cr S-15-UAR_/    19      ARE       Talkha Engr.                --        0.4     --
Cr 484-UAR       1974    ARE       Talkha Fertilizer           --       20.0     14.0
Cr 524-EGT       1974    ARE       Ag/Ind Imports I            --       35.0      5.6
Ln 1062-EGT      1974    ARE         "   "       "              35.0    --       20.0
Ln 1064-EGT      1974     SCA      Suez Canal Rehabilitation    50.0    --       50.0
Ln 1085-EGT      1975     ARE      Tourah Cement               40.0     --       36.9
Ln 1098-EGT      1975     ERO      Railways                     37.0    --       36.9
Cr 548-EGT       1975    ARE       Telecommunications          --       30.0     30.0
Cr 576-EGT       1975    ARE       BOA II                      --       25.0     25.0
Totals4/                                                      218.5    241.1    281.5
Of which has been repaid                                       56.5      0.6
Total now outstanding                                         162.0    240.5
Amount sold                                        7.4
Of which has been repaid                           6.0          1.4
Total now held by Bank and IDW3/                              160.6    240.5    281.5
Total undisbursed
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of April 30, 1976)
Amount in
US$ million
Year      Obligor                    Type of Business     Loan   Equity        Total
1976      Arab Ceramic Company5/     Ceramic Industry     4.25     .75         5.0
(plus .635     &.635)
contingency commitment)
_/  Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR.
2/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR.
3/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
4/ A loan of $45.0 million to the Alexardria Port Authority was approved
by the Executive Directors on 4/6/76 but is not yet effective.(1239-EGT)
5/ Approved by Executive Directors on April 22, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April 17,
1970; Effective Date: December 22', 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the Government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and to provide effective man-
agement.  The major problem facing this project up to the end of 1974--of lack
of local funds--was resolved by allocation under the 1975 national budget.
Adequate local currency is expected to be available for 1976. However, in spite
of the recent improvement in project implementation, it will not be possible to
recoup all the time lost-and project completion will not now be possible before
December 1979. Procurement is almost completed.
Cr. No. 284-UAR -Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February 9,
1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: (i) September 30, 1976,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.   Most of the pro-
curement contracts have been awarded, and the bulk of the credit has been com-
mitted. To allow the small balance of some $600,000 to be utilized for purchase
of spare parts for the existing locomotive fleet, the Closing Date for the first
part of the project, originally December 31, 1973, was extended for a third time
to Septemb'er 30, 1976.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972;'Effective Date:- June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June 8,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress on both the drainage and the bilharzia control components
of this project was initially slow, but is now reasonably saisfactory. How-
ever, project cost estimates have increased by about 20%, as a result of price
increases. Foreign exchange costs have risen by about 14% almost entirely
due to price increases of materials for bilharzia control.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Effective Date: November 29, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Almost the entire amount of the credit has been committed to sub-
projects. Disbursements which were only $2.3 million as of May 31, 1975, have
accelerated and stood at $7.8 million as of December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Prices of bids received in May 1974 for major equipment packages
were much higher than expected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost
is now estimated to be about $41.5 million. In January 1976, the Saudi Fund
for Development concluded an agreement to provide $25.6 million to finance the
cost overrun thus enabling implementation of the project as appraised. Awards
for most of the major contracts have been made and equipment delivery has
begun. However, due to the deteriorated condition of the buildings in one of
the nine ginneries to be rehabilitated and the unavailability of additional
power for another ginnery, two other ginneries have been substituted and the
project description amended accordingly in November 1975.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There were initial delays but following appointment in November 1974
of a new Coordinator and Executive Director, progress on the construction of
clinics has been reasonably satisfactory. The Consultant Architects have
produced a procedures guide, and design guidelines; executive architects have
been appointed for detailed design of the health clinics, and the family plan-
ning activities are underway. Sites have been selected and acquired; construc-
tion contracts are being awarded, and construction on some sites has started.
Progress on the program components of the project, which was slow, is now
expected to improve, and some are underway.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
A consulting firm, appointed as the technical advisors, did some of
the work covered by this credit and was paid by Egypt. The credit was refi-
nanced under Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of
June 24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The general contractor has been appointed and work on implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily. The fertilizer sector study began in November
1975. *The general contractor has prepared revised estimates of the likely
cost of equipment and civil works and it appears that a cost overrun of some,
$30 million including $23 million in foreign exchange costs would be incurred.
The Government and the project entity have approached the other lenders with a
view to mobilizing necessary additional funds.
Cr. No. 524-ECT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 21, 1976 (Credit) and
December 21, 1976 (Loan).
The bulk of the procurement actions have been completed and disburse-
ments are proceeding sati-sfactorily. Two of the six surveys of industrial
subsectors have begun and the rest are expected to commence shortly.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
No Bank funds have yet been disbursed, since the Canal Authority
wished first to use lower interest funds from other sources.    Progress to
date on project implementation has been good. Bid documents for items to
be financed by the Bank are now being prepared, and consultants have been
selected to carry out a study of the enlargement of the canal.
Ln.- to. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Bids for cement manufacturing equipment were opened according to
schedule on February 1, 1975. Consultants assisted in bid evaluation, and
the contract for the Bank-financed cement manufacturing equipment was awarded
in August 1975 some three months behind schedule. Bids for the electrical
equipment to be financed by the Arab Fund have been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Action on procurement progressed satisfactorily and bids for major
items have been awarded. Consultants for the transport sector survey have beer
selected.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contract awards are being made for cables and bids for telex equip-
ment have been invited.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1975; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The credit was appproved on July 15, 1975, signed on July 30,
1975, and declared effective on February 19, 1975. The first sub-projects
have been approved for financing under the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Prdject Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt.
Sub-Borrower:       Bank Misr.
Beneficiaries:      Ministries of Irrigation and Agriculture
Bank Misr
Nubariya Seed Production Company
Potato Growers' Cooperative
El Wadi Export Company
Nile Company.
Union of Producers & Exporters of Horticultural Crops
Other unidentified horticultural enterprises
Amount:              $50.0 million
Terms:               Standard Third Window
Relending Terms:     1.   The Government will lend to Bank Misr about
$34,200,000, at 8-1/2 percent per annum, to be
repaid over 15 years including 5 years of grace.
Foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Gov-
ernment.
2.   Bank Misr will relend to sub-borrowers at 10 percent
interest per annum. Repayment periods, including
grace of up to 5 years, will not exceed 15 years.
Project              The project is designed to increase the productivity of
Description:        the Borrower's horticultural sector, to satisfy growing
domestic demand, and to generate foreign exchange earnings
through import substitution of vegetable seeds and exports
of fruit and vegetables. The project consists of the fol-
lowing parts:
1/   Given as an indication:   The World Bank lending rate at the date of Board
approval will be used.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
Project Components:
A.   Vegetable Seed Components
Three components cover facilities for the production, supply and
certification of high quality vegetable seeds, with the aim of
meeting at least 50 percent of Egypt's needs of seeds for major
vegetable crops within five years, leading to complete self-
sufficiency in future. These components will include (i) estab-
lishment of the Nubariya Seed Production Corporation (NSPC) to
establish and operate a seed farm on reclaimed land to the west
of the Delta, in an area known as West Nubariya; (ii) assistance
to the Ministry of Agriculture's Seed Certification Agency; and
(iii) assistance to the Vegetable Research Institute to strengthen
research and breeding capacity for breeder and foundation seeds.
B.   Drainage Component
This component consists of (i) sealing the lining of the Nasr Canal,
the main irrigation canal in the NSPC area, and (ii) construction
of a 67 km drainage outfall in West Nubariya, to collect drainage
water from the seed farm project area and from the surrounding
reclaimed lands. About 450,000 fd is being reclaimed and developed
in the area, and of this about 180,000 fd is already cultivated,
much of it with horticultural crops. The whole area is suffering
severely from waterlogging and increasing salinity, and the
proposed outfall would serve the already cultivated 180,000 fd as
well as 100,000 fd of the remainder.
C.   Horticultural Development Components
Bank Misr would make loans from the proceeds of the project
for these sub-projects after making suitable appraisal. These
components, covering provision of storage, transport and pack-
ing facilities for four public sector institutions engaged in
production, import and export of potatoes, citrus fruit, and
other horticultural crops: (i) PGC, (ii) El Wadi, (iii) Nile
Company and (iv) UPEHC (see paragraphs 43-45 above).
D.   Agroindustries Credit Component
Funds would be provided for on-lending and for technical assist-
ance to Bank Misr, to enable it to establish an Agricultural
Development Lending Unit, for further investment in the sector.
Funds for all the revenue-earning components of the Project
will be on-lent through this Unit.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
Project Cost and Financing
Sub-                                    Foreign
World   bor-                  Bank               Expendi-
Bank    rowers      Govt.     Misr     Total     tures as %
of Total
Cost
(US$ Million)
A.  Vegetable Seed Component           14.28     6.78       0.08      7.64      28.78
1.  Nubariya Seed,Production-!     13.96    6.781"        -       7.64     28.38       49
2.  Seed Certification Agency        .05     -           .01       -          .06      80
3.  Veg. Research Institute          .27     -           .07       -          .34      80
B.  Drainage Component                 15.48      -        28.75       -       44.23
1.  Relining Nasr Canal              .88     -          1.63       -        2.51       35
2.  Nubariya Main Outfall          14.60     -         27.12       -       41.72       54
C.  Horticultural Development          10.86     3.68                 3.49     18.03
1.  Potato Growers' Cooperative-    4.18    1.45         -        1.64      7.27       57
2.  El Wadi Export Co. 2/           5.49    1.70         -        1.32      8.51       64
3.  Nile Company 2/                  .49      .17        -         .17       .83       59
4. Union of Producers and
Exporters of Horticultural                1/
Crops 2/                       .70     .36        -          .36     1.42       49
D.  Agro-Industries Credit Ccmponent    9-.39    3.81        _        3.84.   17.03
1. General Agro-Industries
Credit 2/                     9.32    3.81        -         3.82    16.95       55
2. Technical Assistance and
Training  2/                   .07     -           -         .02      .08       80
Total                                  50.00   14.27       28.83     14.97   108.07        46
Percent of Total                          46       13         27        14       100
1/   To be contributed by the Government as equity
2/   Bank Misr Components



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
Disbursement Schedule:
Fiscal Year          Cumulative Disbursement
US$ '000
1977                       5,388
1978                      16,604
1979                      29,266
1980                      40,983
1981                      47,933
1982                      50,000
Procurement          International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used
Arrangements:       for procurement of goods and civil works except as-
below. For contracts exceeding $250,000, Bank prior
approval of procurement procedures is required.
Procurement not following ICB:
1.  Completion and rehabilitation of the irrigation and
drainage network of the seed farm by local competi-
tive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
2.  Equipment and vehicles for NSPC, and civil works,
equipment and vehicles for Bank Misr's other project
sub-borrowers, where these cannot be grouped into
lots of more than $250,000 equivalent, either by
local competitive bidding in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank, or after quotations
have been invited from at least three reliable
sources of supply,
3.  Equipment for the Seed Certification Agency and the
Vegetable Research Institute after quotations have
been invite from at least three reliable sources
of supply.
Technical            Consultants for a total of 206 man-months will be employed
Assistance:         to assist as follows:
1.  NSPC in irrigation and drainage, farm management and
seed production and processing and the Project Unit
in overall design and supervision of irrigation and
drainage works. (174 man-months)
2.  The Vegetable Research Institute in vegetable applied
research for green beans, tomatoes, pepper and canta-
loupes production under plastic tunnels. (12 man-months)



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
3.  PGC in research for improving the traditional potato
storages (Nawalas). (8 man-months)
4.  Bank Misr to help set up an Agricultural Development
Lending Unit, training the staff and assist in pre-
paration of future agricultural credit projects for
IBRD consideration. (12 man-months)
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:    33 percent
Staff Project        Report No. 1181-EGT
Report:            Date:  May 1976
EMENA Region



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PRESIDENT'S' REPORT
EGYPT FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified: November 1972.
(b) Time taken by the country to prepare the Project:
One Year (June 1974 to June 1975)
(c) Agencies which have prepared the Project: The Ministry of
Agriculture and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
(d) Date of the First Bank Mission to consider the Project: July 1975
(e) Date of Departure of Appraisal Missions: October 1975
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: May 6, 1976
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August, 1976
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff, through frequent missions, will review progress made in
preparation of tender documents for the Nubariya Outfall, and for the commence-
ment of operations of NSPC.
Section III: Special Conditions:
1.   Conditions of effectiveness are as follows (paragraph 76):
(a) Ratification of the Project and Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
as appropriate;
(b) That NSPC has been duly and validly established in accord-
ance with the laws of the Borrower and has commenced
operations, the Borrower has made available to NSPC the
first installment of its contribution to NSPC's equity,
and that the land for the seed farm has been transferred
or leased to NSPC (paragraphs 49, 50, and 61);
(c) That NSPC has engaged the services of irrigation consultants,
and the Field Director, Irrigation and Drainage Director and
Vegetable and Potato Seed Director of NSPC have been appointed
(paragraph 49).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
2.   Provision by the Borrower of LE 210,000 as a contribution to
the share capital of UPEHC, and the formal issuance of UPEHC's
charter will be conditions of disbursement for UPEHC (para-
graph 56).
3.   Other special conditions are:
(a) Use of the parallel market rate to value in local ex-
change the foreign exchange costs of the project
investments financed through Bank Misr (paragraphs
59 and 60);
(b) The Borrower shall allow NSPC to set prices for its
produce in accordance with commercial practices
(paragraph 49).



IBRD10047
-{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*n,~e ,,-Y                                       ' U L 
--------'-.,  ,____  ,' - - ---                                    '--'
_{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ''"  ,"i  '
_ j ' -> _< / \ Re J S                                                          A   D
I           ,"""""~~~li'                                                     / ,- ' '''
--  *.;;                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A RA gI A
"C frARAB REPUBLIC OF
S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   . . . .uf:   .aQ 2-l   -W - -  ---f ------ 
~~\ -H<sdc s,fsMI ;.-.
( _5 silin enrl f- "






|Z::T)    CYPRUS  V ER,A_
ARAEB REPUBLIC        OF' E-GyP-           EBRUFRi 104 
Aft;2           ~FRUIT AND      VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENY           RJC
/          ~                 LOCATION OF THE 23,000 FEDDANS PROJECT AREA
|            ! W \W0ARAGIA  PROPOSEO MAIN  NI JAR IYA  OUTFAIL
|;  ARAR REPUBLIC \W.  \  \  l   . e  PROPOSEO ORAIN CONNECTION    R   SA   ME
ARAR REPUBLIC           ~ ~~~~~~~~~PRODJECY AREA BOUNDAR   OTUSNMTR
| T EGcm E\                    NU3ARIYA CANAL  VTLLAGE AREA
SUSAN                _                    J .IRR13ATJIO CANAL W{TH PUMP STATION  INTERFARM LIMIT
i {   -  -._  J  >>IMAIN PRAINS
BRANCH ODRAINS
MIEI
Mold Oa,k and IUOflDIU,,  0/0,11,  DI  IlIP~~~~M IN  D AIN 
Ps I                                )PS LOMETERS  U
MECHGOO FEDDANISEI,                 A    F A R
_ := FARM                      1A 30             F
I1E/~io Kr6 A751  --
MAE  CHAN~IESERD~I
FARM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJ
ARM 5B~~~~~~~~~~I,,E         OCID






29J3Vl                        3P{                                                                        7 . CYPRUS VAYR IAN
ARERUBMLIC
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                                           CRETE        N<     E
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                        APBROX
/t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEO MAP                                               ISRAEL:4,t
I///// PROJECT AREA (23,000 FEODAN SEED FARM)                                                                                                  !     >
\\\\\ RECLAIMED LAND
_.-   -LANDTOBE RECLAIMED                                                                                                                        ARABIA
F:UTURE EXTENSION Of NASR CANAL                                                                    
--~- EPROPOSED MAIN NUBARIYA OUTFALL                                                                                           FARAB REPUBLIC 
EXISTING CANAL AND PUMPING STATION
-   EXISTING DRAIN                                                                                                                L 4TR 
:BDUNDARIES OF RECLAIMED AND 'UNRECLAIMED FARM LANDS.'                    f-                                          i.                J 
g 0 ~CITI ES, TOINNS                                                   AL      A                                                 SDN g      
,ROADS                                                       /L WAUWR                                               .                      3CP L
- -i-s  RAILROADS/ _I.
ARE^5  FEflD^NSPFRIOD  AREAS  FEMfAN&./                   /     /sTt                                /    -    $      <       HMU
NOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
(iTNA.ARTR  3S.OCO  9E19S9-g  (O)NMCDA  22,0m  19r6-967s  /  '                            !fof r (l'  
03MARIUT  .2.000  19E7_1967  ( i)THANPA  . 25JAW 9j-19SS//\64-9 w>
t0                                                                             EL A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N LAEI DELTAft
KILOMETERSE                      E T                                       m~--_=vZ\>
The boundaries showm n UsnIhl ma/p do no}t                                                          X        > 
imp/v  enldorsement or aceeptonee b7y ElseSw 
World Bank and is sffia 5          29 1                                                      as-y                0



