Document of             !  RETURFN  TO
The World Bank                REP CiO ZT) T D T.. n
l iX  S JI   '! I,s
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY              ONE VWEE:- .
Report No. 1181-EGT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
May 12, 1976
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and Nortn Africa Regional Office
This document has a resrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. s contents may not otherwse be disclosed writhout World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQ1JIVAITS
Currency Unit         =         Egyptian Pound (EL)
US$1.00                         ELO.59 /l
EL1.000               -         US$1.69 illion /1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)           =         3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)      =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (mt)               1.000 kg.
1 hectare (ha)        =         2.47 acres
1 hectare (ha)        -         2.38 feddans
1 feddan  (fd)                  0 o.42 hectares
1 feddan  (fd)                  i 104 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
EAO                 Egyptian Agricultural Organization
LDCO                Land Development and Cultivation
Organization
IRO                 Land Reclamation Organization
IRPO                Land Rehabilitation and Agricultural
Projects Organization
NSPC                Nubariya Seed Production Corporation
PGC                 Potato Growers Cooperatives
UPEHC               Union of Producers and Exporters of
Horticultural Crops
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
/1 At parallel market exchange rate as at time of Appraisal (October/November 1975)



FOR OICI  USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY                                          i - xvii
1.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ..................................               1
I.  General .1..........                              ........         I
II.  Agriculture ...                                                    2
2. THE PROJECT    ..19
I. General ........ .                  .19
II. Vegetable Seed Components               ....20
A.  Nubariya Seed Production Corporation    . . .23
B. Seed Certification Agency            . . .33
C. Breeding Unit of the Vegetable Research
Institute ........ .                                   33
III. Drainage Component:
The West Nubariya Main Outfall.                                  34
IV.  Horticultural Development Component:
A. Seed Potato Cold Stores .40
B. Citrus Packing and Marketing .44
C.  Fresh Vegetable Packing and Marketing .47
V. Agro-Industries Credit Component:
A.  General Agroindustries Development Credit                    51
B.  Bank Misr Technical Assistance and Training                   52
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .53
I. The Project Cost .53
II. The Project Financing .55
4.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT          ..58
I.  General .............................................             58
II. Bank Misr .58
III.  The Nubariya Seed Production Corporation .67
IV. Nubariya Main Outfall .68
V. Potato Growers Cooperative PGC .68
VI. El Wadi Export Company .70
VII. Nile Company .71
VIII.  Union of Producers and Exporters of
Horticultural Crops (UPEH) .72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                    Page No.
5.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTArIN .....TA    ...........................              73
I.  Procurement ........... * ........... ...........                    73
II.  Disbursement . ............ . ................... * * * *            74
III. Estimated Cumulative Quarterly Schedule of
Disbursements  ...... . ...0 .... O.**...........**            74
IV.  Monitoring and Evaluation ............. .      ............          75
V.  Environment .. ...............        ....... .   .. .... ..... .    76
6.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ...............  . ...                76
I.  Financial Benefits ...        ........ . .... ...... . ... ...... .  76
II.  Economic Benefits . .. ....... .....  .... ........ ... .            77
III.  Irrigation and Drainage Works Cost Recovery .......                  80
7.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................      o     . ....... ........ ..         82
ANNEX
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP S
IBRD 12043
IBRD 12042



INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
I. Introduction
1.01      This Project was first identified by the IBRD Sector Mission which
visited Egypt in October/November 1972 and presented its findings in a Report
on Agro-Industries and Rural Development in Egypt in March 1973. The Project
was prepared by an FAO/IBRD CP Mission which visited Egypt in November, 1974
and March 1975. The Project was preappraised by an IBRD Mission in June 1975
and field appraised in October/November 1975. Detailed findings of the
Appraisal Mission consisting of Messrs. B. Merghoub, V. Bhargava, R. Hunt,
R. Stevenin (IBRD) and R. Dudley and M. Prins (consultants) are included in the
Staff Project Report.  The proposed Project was regarded by the IBRD Sector
Mission, which visited Egypt in January/February 1975, as one of the priority
projects for which the Government is seeking Bank financing.
II. The Agriculture Sector
2.01      The Egyptian Agriculture Sector is discussed in detail in the report
"Egyptian Agriculture, Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives"
(931b-EGT) distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1976.  Only
about 2-1/2 percent of Egypt's total land area, or about 2.53 million hectares,
equivalent to about six million feddans (fd), is cultivated. 1/ About 5-1/2
million fd. in the valley of the Nile and the Delta, known as the "Old Lands,"
is cultivated as is about half a million fd. of reclaimed land, almost all of
which is on the fringes of the Nile Valley and, especially, of the Delta. How-
ever, since two or more crops are grown each year on much of the land, the
cropped area averages about 10.8 mn fd. Egypt has virtually no rainfall, and
agriculture is dependent on the Nile: successive dammings have enabled almost
the whole of the Old Lands to benefit from perennial irrigation. The flat
topography and rich soil, and the long agricultural traditions, have also led
to a relatively high level of land productivity, although there is considerable
scope for further increases.
Present Situation
2.02      Agriculture accounts for approximately 30 percent of GNP and some 52
percent of exports of goods, and employs just under half the labor force; it
remains the dominant sector of Egypt's economy. Crops, as opposed to live-
stock, account for about 75 percent of agricultural output, with cotton,
maize, wheat, rice and berseem (a fodder crop) being the major crops, while
about 15 percent of output is from fruit and vegetables. Egypt's main agricul-
tural exports are cotton (LE 259 mn) accounting for 75 percent of agricultural
exports in 1974, rice (LE 40 mn), citrus fruit (LE 11 mn), and fresh and
processed vegetables (LE 15 mn). The main industrial exports, cotton yarn and
textiles based on domestic cotton, account for LE 116 mn or 37 percent of
1/   One fd. is equal to 1.04 acres or 0.42 hectares.



- ii -
industrial exports. On the other hand, there are substantial imports of food
and feed, including wheat and flour (about LE 296 mn in 1974), sugar, feed
grains and meat, altogether accounting for LE 338 mn or 27 percent of total
imports.
2.03      Agricultural Output.  Although Egypt's crop yields compare favorably
with those of other countries, these yields are low in relation to the coun-
try's exceptional good natural resource base. With higher inputs and relaxa-
tion of financial and institutional constraints, substantially higher yields
for certain crops would be possible. Agricultural output, which was in-
creasing at nearly 4 percent per annum between 1955 and 1965, had by the
middle of the last decade begun to falter: the growth in production has
declined to about 2/ per annum since then despite the expansion in peren-
nial irrigation, because of salinity, the rising water-table, and the con-
straints described below. Taking account of population growth, both food
production and overall agricultural production in per capita terms have
declined since 1965. The slowdown in agricultural growth has had an adverse
effect on Egypt's economic development: the needs of the increasing popula-
tion, together with an increase in domestic demand arising from increased
incomes, have necessitated a substantial increase in basic food imports,
while foreign exchange earnings from agricultural exports have not risen
appreciably. During the past three years the situation has become acute:
food import costs have risen sharply from about $250 million in 1972 to over
$1.25 billion in 1975. Government subsidy costs to supply basic foods in
urban areas have risen from $100 million in 1972 to $1.3 billion in 1975.
Despite these outlays, and price controls on cereals and other basic foods,
overall food prices have risen rapidly.
2.04      Land Tenure and Institutional Structure.  Following land reform
legislation in 1952, 1961 and 1969, land ownership in Egypt is widely distri-
buted: 57 percent of the cultivated land is in farms of less than 5 fd. The
maximum holding is 50 fd, or 100 fd for a family, and only 12 percent of the
land (owned by 0.3 percent of the farmers) is in family holdings of more than
50 fd. The three and a quarter million holdings in the Old Lands are grouped
into 4,000 cooperatives, administered by the General Agricultural Cooperative
Society, and the Land Reform Cooperative Society. This system is currently
under review, and proposals have been made for streamlining it and reducing
the number of cooperatives to about 700. There are also nine "vertical" or
specialty cooperatives, whose members are individual general cooperatives at a
village level. Each specialty cooperative exists to promote the production,
processing and marketing of one of nine specific commodities (including pota-
toes, rice, cotton, sugarcane, etc.). The general cooperatives act as part of
the administrative system of the Ministry of Agriculture, ensuring conformity
to the stipulated cropping pattern, working closely with    the agricultural
credit banks to ensure supply of the minimum inputs of seed, fertilizer, pest-
icides, etc., and buying from the farmers their required minimum quantities of
the basic crops.
2.05      In March 1976 the Ministry of Agriculture was put under a Minister
of State for Agriculture, reporting together with the Ministry of Irrigation to
a Minister of Irrigation and Agriculture. In addition to its responsibilities



- iii -
for agricultural production, the Ministry of Agriculture has been also respons-
ible for desert land reclamation and for developiag reclaimed land, while the
construction of irrigation works and the provision of field drainage are
responsibilities of the Ministry of Irrigation. The institutions within the
Ministry of Agriculture responsible for development of reclaimed land were
reorganized in late 1975 as part of the general policy throughout the economy
of decentralization of public enterprises. Autonomous companies have been
established in place of the General Organisation fer Land Reclamation, which
previously performed this function. Each company is responsible for develop-
ing the reclaimed land in its area, under the supervision of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Once developed, reclaimed land is farmed by publ4c sector
companies, or by smail farmers grou?ed into cooperatives under a third
cooperative organization, the General Reclamation Cooperative Society.
2.06      Agricultural Credit.  The official agricultural credit system is
widely established in Egypt. The Egyptian General Organization for Agricul-
tural and Co-operative Credit undertakes the central planning of agricultural
and cooperative credit within the framework of the Ministry's cropping policy,
and executes it through the 17 agricultural credit banks in the governorates,
raising funds for the purpose mainly from the commercial banks. The system
is organizationally weak, has a centralized bureaucratic structure, and
due to lack of capital and lending skills has mainly restricted activities to
short-term loans. District branches of the credit banks deal with the af-
fiiiated village-level rural cooperative societies, providing credit only for
cooperative members, mainly short-term, in cash or in kind, to finance each
farmer's basic inputs for his allocated crops, in amounts determined centrally.
The system's banking operations are inseparable from its non-banking operations
which include procurement and sale of agricultural inputs, and crop marketing:
agricult'ural credit banks at the district level manage about 1,050 grain and
input supply stores, and arrange for transport and distribution of agricultural
inputs. Despite the high centralization of agricultural credit, and the in-
tegration between credit banks and village cooperative societies, and between
credit and marketing operations, the performance of the credit banks is low
and the loan recovery rates are only of the order of 70 percent. The lack of
a development finance institution for agricultural and agroindustrial develop-
ment in Egypt is apparent.
Policies and Constraints
2.07      Since 1965 agricultural planning has been on a short-term basis.
Drafts of formal long-term plans have been discussed in the past, and a Five
Year Plan is under preparation as part of the overall plan. Nevertheless, there
are some generally accepted policy goals and guidelines. Agriculture should
supply much of the domestic food needs, and generate foreign exchange earnings
from exports to help meet Egypt's large import needs. To this end, and given
the policy aim of maintaining lo'; and satable domestic food prices, the Ministry
of Agriculture has maintained close control over agricultural production by
regulating the cropping patterns of all farmers, supplying them with agricul-
tural inputs at fixed, subsidized prices, and as their major market outlet, by



- iv -
buying allocated amounts of traditional crops at low, controlled prices. This
policy is now under review in the face of rapidly fluctuating international
commodity prices and the changing domestic economic policies, particularly the
"open-door" policy and the need for price flexibility. The low, administered
profit margins for traditional Eield crops tend to act as a disincentive to
the individual farmer, making it unprofitable for him to use the inputs
necessary for increased output of traditional crops. The regulated cropping
patterns also prevent switching to crops such as vegetables from which far
higher revenue could be obtained. Overall cropping patterns have in fact
remained relatively constant in recent years.
2.08      Investment.  Physical, financial and institutional constraints have
all contributed to the modest performance of the sector. Up to now the Gov-
ernment's investment strategy has been to place emphasis on easing the physical
constraints on agriculture through a program of horizontal expansion, i.e.,
desert land reclamation projects. This has been costly and slow to produce re-
sults. In recent years, investment in reclamation (as well as in large-scale
public sector poultry projects) have absorbed most of the relatively small
amount of Government funds allocated to agriculture, at the expense of invest-
ment needs elsewhere in the sector, including provision of farm inputs, re-
search and extension services, processing and marketing facilities and agri-
cultural credit. A decline, caused by salinity and the rising water-table,
in the fertility of the Old Lands, the basic source of Egyptian agricultural
wealth, also points to the need to allocate considerably larger funds to
public investment in the Old Lands.
Strategies and Priorities
2.09      The Bank has begun a dialogue with the Government on agricultural
policy on the basis of the recently distributed sector report. The report
describes the possibilities of substantial increases in agricultural output,
and the increased returns that can be obtained from an increased allocation
of public investment to the old lands, coupled with removal of agricultural
institutional constraints. Discussions are expected to continue in the
context of the forthcoming preparation of a basic economic report on Egypt
scheduled for completion in mid-1977, and in connection with ongoing and
future project and economic work. While the policy dialogue continues, the
Bank has continued to support essential projects to overcome physical problems,
such as the drainage projects, which are a precondition to future development
of the sector. The Government is aware of many of the shortcomings described
above, particularly of the physical constraints, and the need to improve
agricultural planning. It is reviewing policies accordingly. In the-context
of the preparation of the 1976-8) five year plan, a new policy of vertical
expansion is under consideration. This redirection of investment towards
increasing the productivity of existing arab-le land, particularly that which
is already reclaimed, is capable of producing substantially greater and
quicker returns. In addition, there has been in the past two years a slight
decrease in the area allocated to cotton production, in favor of cereals and
fruit and vegetables.  This policy requires constant review of relative prices
and market demand for various commodities; to improve resource allocation,
means should be explored of increasing its flexibility and sharpening its
responses.



2.10      Awareness of agriculture's institutional and financial constraints,
especially of the complex effects of the controlled pricing system, is some-
what limited outside the sector. While there is appreciation of the fact that,
to increase output, there is need to reduce physical constraints (especially
by improved drainage), greater attention needs to be directed to allowing the
farmer to respond to market forces. In addition to the need to improve the
existing services of research, training and extension, and to increasing in-
vestment in drainage, soil improvement, supply of quality seed and fertilizer,
it is important to increase production incentives to farmers by increasing
profit margins in the traditional crops, deregulating cropping patterns, or
both.
III. The Project
Project Background
3.01      The Government's basic objective in developing horticulture is to
generate foreign exchange by developing the already significant exports of
fruit and vegetables, as well as of increasing horticultural supplies on the
home market to meet the ever-growing home demand. To this end it seeks to
improve horticultural inputs, especially seeds, to improve processing and
marketing through agroindustrial credit development, and to strengthen insti-
tutions concerned with horticulture. About 8 percent of the cropped area is
cultivated with vegetables producing about 10 percent of total agricultural
output. Mlost farmers grow some vegetables, as part of the normal crop rotation.
Fruits account for about 5 percent of total output, and are grown on about 2
percent of the cropped area, mostly by larger farmers. While specialty coop-
eratives are responsible for some vegetable crops, a substantial part of fruit
and vegetable production is marketed privately. The biggest horticultural
export crop is citrus fruit, export of which in 1974 amounted to about LE 11
million. Potato exports (mostly to the UK) were about LE 6 million. Exports
of tomatoes together with smaller quantities of green beans, green peppers and
artichokes, amounted to about LE 5 million and appear to be fast increasing.
This compares with total non-processed agricultural exports of about LE 350
million. About 20% of the citrus and potato crops is exported, although
exports of other vegetables (apart from onions of which exports were about LE
8 million in 1974) are still small in relation to total production.
3.02      Vegetable yields are low in comparison to Egypt's high potential,
partly because of the poor quality of seed used. Only about 20 percent of
vegetable seeds (not including seed potatoes) are certified; most of these
are produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, either directly or under con-
tract by farmers. The rest of the requirements are met, inadequately,
either by farmers saving their own seed or by local dealers who produce
for sale. A ready market for imported seed exists at two or three times
the usual seed prices. Contract seed production is inadequate, and progress
has been slow. Because contract prices are low, farmers often prefer to sell
vegetables on the fresh market rather than to meet their contracts. The
Ministry lacks trained staff, equipment and the necessary control machinery to
supervise seed production, leading to low qual; y seed which growers reject.
The Ministry's Vegetable Research Institute, which breeds vegetable seeds,



- vi -
lacks equipment and facilities; also the Seed Certification Agency of the
Ministry of Agriculture lacks equipment and facilities to extend its activ-
ities to vegetable seeds. The project will support the steps the Government
is now taking to improve domestic vegetable seed production.
3.03      Potatoes are a major Egyptian field crop, and a traditional export
commodity. Potato production and marketing are the responsibility of one of
the most active of the specialty cooperatives, the Potato Growers' Cooperative
(PGC), which represents over 33,000 farmers through its membership of 392
village-level cooperatives. It is responsible for meeting their seed-potato
requirements, for which between 20 to 25 thousand tons are imported annually;
the cost of these imports varies, due mainly to international price fluctua-
tions. It was LE 2 million in 1976 and nearly LE 6 million in 1975. So as to
reduce dependence on imports PGC wishes to build cold stores so that domestic
seed-potatoes can be kept for use in the following year's crop.
3.04      Three public sector companies, the El Wadi Export Company, the Nile
Company and the Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
(UPEHC), handle the major share of four of Egypt's horticultural exports:
citrus fruit, potatoes, tomatoes and green beans. Although recent legislation
permits private farmers and others to export agricultural products, it is
likely that these three companies will maintain their pre-eminent position.
All three are attempting to improve their currently inadequate packaging,
transport and storage facilities.
3.05      All citrus exports are handled by El Wadi, a public sector company
with assets of LE 3.5 million, which also exports other fruit and some other
agricultural produce. Most exports of vegetable crops, including potato
exports for PGC, are handled by the Nile Company, a public sector company of
similar size to El Wadi, and by UPEHC, established by the Government in 1971,
as an additional export concern, which is being developed as a form of coopera-
tive organization, whose members are individual vegetable producers through-
out the country.
Project Objectives
3.06      The proposed project aims at increasing and improving horticultural
production and exports, reducing imports of seeds and seed potatoes, helping
to build institutions related to horticultural production and marketing, and
helping form the basis for a vegetable export industry, for which Egypt has
comparative advantages.  The major project components help make productive
use of the heavy capital costs invested in the already-reclaimed lands. In
addition, the Project helps develop the country's development credit system
through creation in one of Egypt's major commercial banks, Bank Misr, of a
unit for term-lending for agro-industrial purposes.
3.07      Project Components.  The project components can be grouped into four
categories described separately in this report:



- vii -
A.   Vegetable Seed Components
Three components cover facilities for the production, supply and
certification of high quality vegetable seeds, with the aim of
meeting at least 50 percent of Egypt's needs of seeds for major
vegetable crops within five years, leading to complete self-suf-
ficiency in future. These components will include (i) establishment
of the Nubariya Seed Production Corporation (NSPC) to establish and
operate a seed farm on reclaimed land to the west of the Delta, in
an area known as West Nubariya; (ii) assistance to the Ministry of
Agriculture's Seed Certification Agency; and (iii) assistance to the
Vegetable Research Institute to strengthen research and breeding
capacity for breeder and foundation seeds.
B.   Drainage Component
This component consists of (i) sealing the lining of the Nasr Canal,
the main irrigation canal in the NSPC area, and (ii) construction of
a 67 km drainage outfall in West Nubariya, to collect drainage water
from the seed farm project area and from the surrounding reclaimed
lands. About 450,000 fd is being reclaimed and developed in the
area, and of this about 180,000 fd is already cultivated, much of it
with horticultural crops. The whole area is suffering severely from
waterlogging and increasing salinity, and the proposed outfall would
serve the already cultivated 180,000 fd as well as 100,000 fd of the
remainder.
C.   Horticultural Development Components
Bank Misr would make loans for these sub-projects after suitable
appraisal. These components, cover provision of storage, transport
and packing facilities for four public sector institutions engaged
in production, import and export of potatoes, citrus fruit, and
other horticultural crops: (i) PGC, (ii) El Wadi, (iii) Nile Com-
pany and (iv) UPEHC.
D.   Agro-Industries Credit Component
Funds would be provided for on-lending and for technical assist-
ance to Bank Misr, to enable it to establish an Agricultural
Development Lending Unit.
Vegetable Seed Components
3.08      NSPC's Seed Production Farm would be created on an area of 23,000
fd net of reclaimed land in the southern part of the West Nubariya area to
the West of the Delta, irrigated by the Nubariya Canal. Climatic and soil
conditions are favorable for vegetable seed production, provided that



- viii -
waterlogging and salinity hazards are avoided. The area is part of the first
zone serviced by the Nasr Canal, a main subsidiary of the Nubariya Canal, and
is already provided with nearly completed irrigation and drainage facilities,
designed and constructed between 1968 and the present. Some works remain to
be completed, including lining of secondary and tertiary canals, excavation of
secondary and tertiary drains, and the construction of field drains, while
parts of the existing network need repairs. This component will include:
(a) Protection against waterlogging and salination hazards by
sealing and relining existing irrigation canals, comple-
tion and deepening of existing open drains, and provision
of field drainage.
(b) Completion of general infrastructure to ensure adequate
working and living conditions for the workers and staff
involved in the Project, including asphalting of about
23 km of roads, supply of water and power, and construction
of houses and offices.
(c) Provision of farm machinery, seed processing equipment and
vehicles.
(d) Provision of 174 man-months technical assistance to develop
NSPC management, and to train its staff.
3.09      Production by NSPC on a restricted area under its direct control
will ensure safer seed production, taking account of needs for rotation and
isolation and yield requirements. NSPC will be the nucleus of a vegetable
seed industry in Egypt. Benefits of modern production and processing tech-
nology will be better attained in the concentrated area, where management
coordination and mobility are assured, and where services and technical
assistance can be used efficiently, compared with the present scattered
production under contract in farms throughout Egypt. Seeds will continue to
be sold through the cooperatve organizations, NSPC's own outlets, and existing
private traders. A recent ministerial decree provided for NSPC's establish-
ment as a public sector enterprise, and its general manager has been appointed;
appointment of other key staff, provision of equity by the Government, the
fact that it shall have commenced operations, and the provision of a legal
opinion that it has been duly established as a legal entity, with the power to
borrow money and to carry on its operations, will be conditions of effective-
ness (Sections 6.01 and 6.02, Loan Agreement). NSPC will set its own prices
in accordance with commercial practices (Section 3.13, Loan Agreement). It is
believed that farmers will be ready to pay suitable prices, since vegetables
are sold mostly on the free market, and since imported certified seeds cur-
rently sell at a high price.
3.10      Some workers and staff already working on the farm area will be
transferred to NSPC, as will other appropriate staff from the Ministry of



- ix -
Agriculture. The seed farm project area will be transferred to NSPC, either
as owner or on a lease of at least 30 years on terms satisfactory to the Bank
as a condition of Loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.12 and 6.01).
Arrangements will be made with a commercial tomato processing company for
extracting tomato seed and marketing the pulp (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
3.11      The Seed Certification Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture would
be provided with laboratory equipment and transportation facilities, financed
from the project, which will allow it to expand its activities to include
control and certification of vegetable seeds.
3.12      The Ministry of Agriculture's Vegetable Research Institute would
receive funds to develop breeding programs of disease and pest-resistant
varieties of vegetable seeds. The funds would finance laboratory equipment,
greenhouses, and transportation facilities to facilitate communication between
research and production areas, as well as technical assistance to enable local
staff to benefit from international expertise in this field.
Drainage Component - West Nubariya Main Drain
3.13      The main objective of the West Nubariya Drainage Outfall subproject
is to solve the serious problems of waterlogging and salinity which have
arisen in the New Lands West of Nubariya since irrigation was introduced in
this area some fifteen years ago. Before irrigation the water table was
about 30 to 50 meters below ground level in the western part of the area, and
about 6 to 30 meters in its eastern part, depending on topography. Now it is
estimated that the groundwater level has risen quite close to the land surface
in the northern part of the area, and also in the Mechanized Farm near the
NSPC area, posing serious threats of waterlogging and salinity to the whole
of the area. The Nubariya Canal, which is the only source of irrigation, now
also acts as a drain collecting the saline return flow fram the already ir-
rigated 180,000 feddans, so that the irrigation water is becoming increasingly
saline. A key part of the proposed drainage program in this area would be the
construction of the 67 km Main Outfall, independent of the Nubariya Canal, to
collect the saline return flow and discharge it by gravity into the sea.
Without the construction of this drain, waterlogging and salinity problems
would become so acute that the Seed Production Farm output is likely to begin
to suffer seriously within five years, while development of the seed farm
would, since it is at the upstream end of the reclaimed land, add to the
increasing salinity and hence loss of production in the rest of the area. The
Main Outfall has been designed to allow for all tributary drains including the
drain of the Seed Production Farm, to discharge into it directly by gravity.
About 9 million m3 would be excavated in total, mostly in soft ground cohesive
enough to prevent caving in. Structures to be constructed along the Outfall
would include 19 road bridges, 1 railway bridge, 5 large siphons and 4 smaller
ones, 1 overflow spillway and miscellaneous less important structures. This
component will also include the sealing of the lining of the Nasr Canal.



Horticultural Development Components
3.14      The Potato Cold Stores Subproject would finance four fully equipped
cold stores of 6,000 tons capacity each to permit the Potato Growers' Co-
operative (PGC) to expand its potato storage, grading and marketing services
which currently serve 33,220 farmers throughout the country. The expansion
will permit implementation of the Government's plan to expand domestic produc-
tion of seed potatoes, so reducing dependence on imports by 20,000 tons out of
the present total of 25,000 tons. At 1975 prices this would represent an
annual saving of about LE 4 million ($6.8 million) in convertible currency.
Technical assistance would be financed to develop methods of improving tradi-
tional on-farm stores, known as nawalas, from which it is hoped to reduce
losses in these stores from 25 percent at present to 10 percent, adding about
LE 1.2 million to producer revenue. PGC's management is well experienced in
managing cold stores; no difficulty is anticipated in recruiting additional
staff. Its financial position, although currently satisfactory, needs to be
strengthened to handle the sub-project; PGC intends to do this through in-
creased share capital to be subscribed by its members, so as to be able to
borrow from Bank Misr. This component will be import saving, but may also
lead to increasing potato exports by improvement of seed potato quality.
3.15      The Citrus Packing and Marketing subproject would provide El Wadi
Company with four fully equipped citrus packing stations, with a total annual
capacity of 100,000 tons, including stores and handling equipment to upgrade
operations in existing packing plants, truck transport, and port storage
facilities, to improve its marketing operations. A small central laboratory
would also be financed for improved quality control. This investment should
allow a 50 percent increase in Egypt's citrus exports, and ensure the neces-
sary capacity through 1980/1981. The Company is efficiently managed and its
financial position is sound. The proposed activities under the Project will
be an extension of its on-going activities.
3.16      The Fresh Vegetable Packing and Marketing subprojects will furnish
export packing plants for tomatoes and green vegetables, new equipment to
upgrade export packing plants for potatoes and onions, refrigerated and un-
refrigerated storage, and transportation facilities. The investments will
be undertaken by the Nile Company and the Union of Producers and Exporters
of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC), which acts as a producer controlled link to
the export market. The investments will enable both concerns to improve
their present rather primitive methods of sorting, grading, and packing and
assembling for export, thereby adding to the quality and consistency of their
products to meet the standards of export markets, and reducing shipping costs.
They will also ensure that the necesary capacity to handle the projected
increases in export supplies of tomatoes and green vegetables is available
when required. The Nile Company has a sound financial position. Its present
organization is adequate for the proposed investment. UPEHC is institutional-
ly weak, because of its lack of capital and because, although it has been



- xi -
operating since 1972, Government has still to approve its charter. The
Government will provide UPEHC with a capital base of EL 210,000 equity and
approve its charter, enabling it to have independent staff, a separate capital
structure, and therefore financial autonomy (Section 3.02(b) and Schedule 1,
paragraph 4, Loan Agreement).
3.17      The El Wadi and Nile Companies and UPEHC are expected to find ready
markets for the additional exports which the project will generate. Egypt has
in recent years exported on average 200,000 tons of citrus fruit (mostly
oranges, of which about 75 percent were to Eastern Europe, under bilateral
trade agreements. About twenty percent has been to Western Europe, and the
remainder to the Middle East and Singapore, where prices are favorable.
Quality of Egypt's export oranges is high, and they are available earlier than
those of other countries in the region. Egypt now benefits from 20 percent
tariff reductions in the European Community, and its citrus exports are highly
competitive. With the support of the proposed project, and with the attention
currently being given by El Wadi to packing and grading, and its well-organized
export market system, Egypt stands a good chance of increasing its present 1
percent share of the EC market. The Mid- and Far-East markets are expanding
rapidly (taking as much as 20 percent of exports in 1974/5), while the share
of the Eastern European market is expected to be maintained. It is also
expected that the Nile Company and UPEHC will have exports of about 8,500 tons
of vegetables by 1980/81, mostly tomatoes and green beans. While this would
approximately double Egypt's current exports of these commodities, it is a
very small amount in the context of total Western European consumption: an
FAO study has estimated that Egypt could conservatively expect a share of at
least 10,000 tons of the increase in consumption in Western Europe during the
period.
Agro-industry Credit Component
3.18      Bank Misr will serve as the agricultural credit institution through
which the project funds will be onlent for NSPC and the horticultural develop-
ment components. In addition about $9.3 million will be provided to Bank Misr
as a credit allocation to help finance development in the horticultural sub-
sector by private, cooperative and public sector enterprises. This loan,
together with funds which Bank Misr would lend from its own resources, would
help develop processing, packaging and handling facilities in an area which
has long been severely constrained by lack of capital, especially foreign
exchange, and is expected to help some such enterprises enter the export
market. In view of the average size of investments in the agro-industrial
subsector, only 10-15 loans could be made over 5 years from this limited
allocation. The component would, however, be a start to a more comprehensive
program of modernization of horticultural production and marketing that Gov-
ernment intends to develop in the long run. Funds will be also provided to
Bank Misr for staff training, and to hire consultancy services for 12 man-
months to help develop its agroindustry development banking capability to
carry out its role in the Project. The technical assistance will have the
additional objective of enabling Bank Misr to help prepare further agricul-
tural credit projects for future consideration by the Bank or other sources
of external finance.



- xii -
IV.  Project Cost and Financing 1/
4.01      Total Project Cost is estimated at LE 63.8 million (US$108.1 mil-
lion) of which 46 percent or LE 29.5 million (US$50.0 million) would be
foreign exchange. Cost estimates are based on December 1975 costs, and
include an average 13 percent physical contingency for civil works and an
estimated 29 percent overall price contingency for the five year implementa-
tion period. Estimates are based on the parallel market exchange rate for the
Egyptian pound in effect at the time of appraisal of LE 1 = $1.69.  In February
1976 the rate was changed to LE = $1.56, which is close to the free rate pre-
vailing in the Port Said Free Zone.  The effect of the change is to increase
total project cost, measured in terms of Egyptian pound, by about 4 percent,
and the local currency equivalent of the foreign exchange component by nearly
9 percent.  (The dollar equivalent total cost is reduced by about 4 percent.)
The change does not significantly affect the financial and economic rates of
return. Detailed project costs are shown in Table 1 below.
4.02      The Bank loan would finance 46 percent of the Project Cost, or US$50
million equivalent, representing 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The
Government would be the Borrower. The Bank loan would be made on standard Third
Window terms. Government would use about US$15.5 million of the loan proceeds
to finance the Nubariya Main Outfall and sealing the Nasr Canal, and $0.3 mil-
lion for the Seed Certification Agency and the Vegetable Research Institute.
The Government would onlend to Bank Misr about US$34.2 million, at an interest
rate of 8.5 percent per annum and for a period of 15 years including 5 years
grace; the Government would bear the exchange risk (Schedule 4, Loan Agree-
ment). Bank Misr would in turn lend these funds to NSPC, PGC, El Wadi Com-
pany, Nile Company and UPEHC and to other agroindustrial investors for fruit
and vegetable investments, under terms given in paragraph 64. These sub-
projects were appraised by the Bank using the parallel market exchange rate,
and shown to be profitable at that rate. The parallel market rate in force at
the time of disbursement will be used to establish the amount of the loans to
sub-borrowers by Bank Misr, and to Bank Misr by the Government, in respect of
disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan (provided in a supplemental
letter). The use of the parallel market rate for these purposes marks a small
but significant step towards realistic pricing of imported equipment. About
US$66,000 would be used by Bank Misr to finance the technical assistance which
would help it set up an Agricultural Development Lending Unit to promote and
implement a medium- and long-term lending program in the agricultural sector.
1/   Because the parallel market exchange rate for the Egyptian pound,
LE 1 = $1.69, in force at the time of the appraisal mission, November
1975, was used to appraise this project, all conversion between
Egyptian pounds and dollars in this part of the Report are made at
that rate.



- xiii -                               TABLE 1
Project Cost and Financing
Sub-                                     Foreign
World   bor-                  Bank                Expendi-
Bank    rowers      Govt.     Mier      Total    tures as Z
of Total
COst
(US$ Million)
A.  Vegetable Seed Component            14.28    6.76        C.08      7.64      2373
1.  Nubariya Seed Productionz'Y    13.96    6.735/         -       7.Q4      28.33       49
2.  Seed Certificaticn Agency         .05     -           .01       -          .C0       80
3.  Veg. Research Institute           .27     -           .07       -          .4       a0
. Drainage Component                   15.48     -          C. 75       -       44.23
1.  Relin-ing Nasr CGnal              .88     -          1.63       -         Z.31       35
2.  Nubarita Hain Outfall          14.60      -         21.2        -         '.2        54
c.  EortUicultural Develapment           0. .O.86    3.68              .-49      IS,3
1.  Fotato Growers% Cooperative   i4.18   .145            _        l e6       7.27
2. El Wadi Expcrt Co. 2/             5. 4 SI   1.70       -                   8.51
3. Yile Company 2J                    e49     -.7                     Z 2.7    .83       59
4.  !Jnion cf Producers asd
Exporters .f Horticult=a                   11
Crops Z/                        .7o     .36                    _ 36    1o4,2      49
D.  Agro-Industries Credit Commonant   9.39    3.61                     3.84   21..03
1. General Agrc-r.dustries
Credit 2J                     S.32    3.81                   3.82 /6.95
2.  Techzical Assistance and
Training  2/                    .07    _                      .2        0 8C
Total                                   50.00   14.27       28.83      14.97   !O8.S7        46
Percent of Total'                          46       13         27         '4       ,.C
1/   To be contributed ty the Government as ecuity
21   Sank Misr Components



- xtv -
4.03      The Government would contribute a total of LE 21.2 million (US$36.0
million) to the local exchange cost of the vegetable seed components, to con-
struction of the Nubariya Main Outfall, and to funding of UPEHC. Bank Misr
would contribute about LE 8.8 million (US$15 million) and individual subbor-
rowers LE 4.2 million (US$7.2 million) from their own resources to cover the
local exchange cost of their respective investments. The detailed financing
plan is given in Table 1. The contribution by the Government of LE 1.2 mil-
lion equity to NSPC is a condition of effectiveness, and contribution of LE
210,000 equity to UPEHC a condition of sub-loan disbursement (Sections 3.02
and 6.01 and paragraph 4 to Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). The Government will
ensure that interim financing is available for NSPC until the equity is
subscribed.
V.  Project Organization and Management
5.01      The Government would be responsible for the organization and manage-
ment aspects of the Seed Certification Agency and Vegetable Research Institute
under the Vegetable Seed Production subproject. In addition it has established
a Project Unit within the Ministry of Irrigation to be responsible for the ex-
ecution of the drainage and irrigation civil works under the project in the
West Nubariya area. This would include in particular construction of the
Nubariya Main Outfall, relining of the Nasr Canal, and assisting NSPC in other
irrigation and drainage activities in the Seed Farm area. The Project Unit
would coordinate its work with the Ministry of Agriculture and NSPC. It will
be assisted by the technical consultants to be employed by NSPC for drainage
and irrigation works, and to be financed under the Project. The Unit would be
dissolved on completion of the project works and its responsibilities regarding
maintenance and operation of the completed infrastructure would be assigned to
the Ministry of Irrigation, the Ministry of Agriculture and to the NSPC as
appropriate.
5.02      Bank Misr would lend funds to the sub-borrowers under the NSPC,
Horticultural Development and Agroindustrial Credit components (see Table I),
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement (Section 2.01 and
Schedule 1). Bank Misr was established in 1920, and is the largest of Egypt's
four commercial banks, all of which are publicly owned. The Bank appraisal
mission found it to be a financially strong, well managed and efficiently run
organization, with a large network of branches.  Until the Banking Law was
changed in 1975 its loans were limited to terms not exceeding one year.
Therefore its loan portfolio Ls mostly for commercic' and trading activities:
the overall quality appears to be good.  Bank Misr nas been successful in
mobilization of deposits, particularly from the private sector. Between 1971
and 1975 it was designated as the bank for the agricultural sector, and de-
veloped close ties with the sector through commercial activities and lending
directly to farmers and to the Credit Banks. Under the Project, Bank Misr
will embark for the first time in agricultural development term financing.



- xv -
Although it has some experience in analysis of investment proposals, it will
need technical assistance to develop an Agricultural Development Lending Unit,
and will receive funds under the project for that purpose and for overseas
training of a few of its staff members.
5.03      Bank Misr will on-lend Bank funds, as well as make local currency
loans, both for development purposes and working capital, to the five identi-
fied sub-borrowers under the project. Through its Agricultural Lending Unit,
it would have a coordinating, supervision and financial responsibility for
these sub-loans, rendering assistance in project preparation as necessary.
For the Agro-industries Credit component of the Project, it would assume
complete responsibility. It will appraise all sub-loan applications under
this and the Horticultural Development Component on the basis of economic
viability (including marketing prospects), technical feasibility, financial
soundness and satisfactory organization and management arrangements. Bank
Misr would extend such technical and managerial assistance to its borrowers
as may be necessary. It will seek prior Bank approval for subloans in excess
of LE 150,000 ($250,000). On-lending interest rates under the Project will
be not less than 10 percent per annum for foreign exchange sub-loans, and not
less than 7.5 percent per annum for local currency (Schedule 1, Project Agree-
ment) The proposed interest rates are respectively 3 percent and 1/2 percent
higher than currently charged on loans to public sector companies. Repayment
periods will not be in excess of 15 years, including grace periods, in ac-
cordance with projections of beneficiaries' cash flow and repayment capaci-
ties. Sub-borrowers will be required to contribute at least 20 percent of
sub-project costs. World Bank funds would be used to meet the foreign ex-
change component of sub-project costs. The foreign exchange risk will be
borne by the Government.
VI. Project Implementation
Procurement
6.01      Major civil works for NSPC ($14.3 million total cost), including
sealing of the Nasr Canal, building of offices, stores and houses and con-
struction of tile drains, would be procured by NSPC, with the technical advice
of the Project Unit, on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to Bank Guidelines. ICB would also be used by the Project Unit for
civil works for the Nubariya Main Outfall ($41.7 million) including structural
construction.
6.02      Procurement for completion and rehabilitation of the irrigation net-
work of the seed farm ($9.4 million) would be by NSPC on the basis of local
competition according to local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These small
and varied works, scattered throughout the Project area, are not suitable for



- XJ'i -
international competition, and would more be effectively implemented by local
contractors. Equipment, farm machinery and vehicles for NSPC, PGC, El Wadi,
Nile Company and UPEHC, and civil works for PGC, El Wadi Nile and UPEHC, would
be procured by the subborrowers. Where possible items would be bulked in lots
of over $250,000 to attract wide international competition: procurement for
these lots would follow ICB. Lots under US$250,000 equivalent would be pro-
cured by the subborrowers locally or abroad after quotations have been invited
from at least three sources of supply. It is expected that about $22.3 mil-
lion of these items would be under ICB, while $18.5 million would be in the
second category. Equipment for the Seed Certification Agency, and the Vege-
table Research Institute, totalLing about $400,000, of which not more than
US$250,000 is expected to be committed in any year, would be procured by these
agencies after quotations have been invited from at least three sources of
supply. Consulting and engineering services under the Project, totalling $1.5
million, would be hired by the agencies concerned in accordance with the
Bank's procedures.
Disbursements
6.03      Bank disbursements would extend over five years.  Disbursement will
be on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditure, except (a) for equip-
ment, vehicles, etc. procured locally (either imported or locally manufactured)
for which it will be 70 percent of total expenditures, and (b) for the few
civil work contracts in which local and foreign expenditures cannot be
separately identified, 35 percent of total expenditures.
VII. Project Benefits and Justification
7.01      Financial rates of return calculated for the major sub-projects
(apart from the Nubariya outfall), range from 15 percent for NSPC to 48 per-
cent for citrus and vegetable packing plants. These rates of return are
sufficiently high to make the proposed investment in each of the sub-projects
attractive even after allowing for the effect on the cost estimates of the
change in the parallel market exchange rate.
7.02      The proposed Project is expected to generate substantial benefits in
terms of production and institution building. Taken as a whole the proposed
project components are expected to generate an annual net increment in produc-
tion of about LE 52 million ($88 million) including  . increase of about 10%
in annual vegetable production in Egypt from use of the improved vegetable
seeds produced by NSPC. Direct net incremental annual export earnings from
the export earning components would be about $3 million. In addition there
would be import savings from the vegetable seed and potato cold store projects
of about $7 million annually. NSPC's production of tomatoes and peas for seed
would as a by-product also contribute to full utilization of existing idle
processing capacities for tomatoes and peas. The Project would contribute



- xvii -
significantly in institution building throughout the horticultural subsector,
by creating an efficient basis for a modern seed production industry, promot-
ing research and laying the base for a more efficient agricultural development
credit system in Egypt.
7.03      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 38 percent for the
Seed Production component, the cost of which is $31.3 million, 19 percent for
component Nubariya Outfall costing $41.7 million, and 35 percent for the
horticultural and agro-industries components, costing $35.0 million. The
overall economic rate of return is estimated at about 33 percent.
Employment and Farm Incomes
7.04      The proposed project is expected to generate a total of about
10,000 to 15,000 new jobs at full development. Approximately 5,000 jobs will
be created on the seed farm. In addition, small increases in employment are
likely to be generated by the other horticultural sub-projects, while the
Nubariya Drain, by increasing fertility of the reclaimed lands, will permit
further agricultural development and thus increase employment.  The vegetable
seed and potato components will aid production and hence, since vegetable
production is widely spread, farm incomes throughout Egypt (FAO estimated
agricultural income per capita at about LE 30 or $75 at the official exchange
rate in 1970). Also the extra production will help utilize a significant part
of Egypt's currently underutilized vegetable processing capacity.
Environment
7.05      The Nubariya Drain component will have a substantial positive envi-
ronmental effect, in reduction of waterlogging and salinity of the reclaimed
lands, and improvement of the water quality of the Nubariya Canal. The pro-
ject will not create environmental problems, apart from the possible spread of
bilharzia In the Seed Farm. Bilharzia is a concomitant of irrigation in Egypt,
and the Bank is supporting the Government 's program of bilharzia control,
through a component of the Upper Egypt Drainage Project. The Government will
monitor the risk of bilharzia in the West Nubariya area, and undertake neces-
sary preventative measures within the framework of its overall program.






CHAPTER 1 - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
I. GENERAL
1.01      Location.  Egypt, located at the Northeast corner of Africa, oc-
cupies an area of about 100 million hectares of which approximately 2.7 mil-
lion are cultivated. Physically the country is divided into four regions,
the Delta, the Nile Valley, the Eastern Desert and the Sinai, and the Western
Desert. The cultivated area is restricted to the Delta and Nile Valley
Regions and some relatively small areas reclaimed on the borders of these
regions.
1.02      Population.  In 1974 the population was 37.4 million and the annual
growth rate was 2.5 percent. This gives an average density of almost 14 people
per hectare of arable land. Almost two thirds of the population lives in the
Delta Region (including Cairo), one third lives in Upper Egypt (the Nile Valley)
and about 1 percent lives in the Desert Regions. While the population is
becoming increasingly urbanized, it is still heavily rural. In 1960 the rural
population share was 62 percent, this was reduced to 50 percent in 1970.
1.03      Climate.  The climate is moderate; winter temperatures range from a
maximum of 20o C to a minimum of 60 C in the North (Delta), and a maximum of
240 C to a minimum 50 C in the South. In summer the temperatures range in the
North is from 360 C to 190 C and in the South from 400 C to 220 C. Of course the
variation is much less, about 100 C, in any given location. While some rain
does fall in the North it is negligible with respect to plant nourishment.
Rain does not occur in the South. Consequently, with the exception of a few
ground wells, the Nile River is the sole source of water in Egypt. While
frost is quite rare it can be expected to occur in January or February at a
rate of once every 3 to 5 years. There is therefore a partial risk of frosts
to horticultural crops grown at this time.
1.04      Soils.  Some 75 percent of the soils of the Delta and Nile Valley
Regions are deep, black, medium textured and alluvial, They were formed from
deposits of clay and fine sand carried down the Nile, by the annual flood,
from the highlands of Ethiopia and the Victoria plateau in East Central
Africa. These are highly productive soils being rich in Potassium, Calcium,
Magnesium, Iron and Phosphates. Three other minor soil types are found in
cultivated areas. Marine alluvial soils are found in the vicinity of the
northern lakes of Mariut, Idku, Burrulus and Manzala. These are similar to the
Delta alluvials but are much more recent and are saline. Residual calcareous
soils are found in the Delta Region along the Mediterranean coast and in Fayoum.
These are similar in origin to the alluvial soils of the Delta but less pro-
ductive. Finally gravelly-sandy soils (desert soils) are found in the Eastern
and Western Deserts on the fringes of the Delta Region and in Fayoum. These are
the remains of a series of gravel terraces which appear to have been formed by
the Nile River during the downward erosion of its channel.  They consist of a



8-16 cm top soil layer of fine sandy loam over-lying a coarse sand-gravel
subsoil which is occasionally loamy. The soil horizon is calcareous through-
out and gypsum is frequently present in the subsoil. They lend themselves to
reclamation via irrigation projects, but do require substantial development
before cultivation due to their low levels of plant nutrients and organic
matter.
II. AGRICULTURE 1/
1.05      Place in the Economy.  Agriculture dominates the economy of Egypt.
It accounts for 30 percent of the GNP, and directly or indirectly 75 percent
of its exports. It employs 46 percent of the Egyptian labor force and the
entire rural population depend on it directly. In the centrally planned
economy of Egypt agriculture continues to play two major roles, to supply much
of the food for domestic consumption and to generate foreign exchange earnings
used to finance development in other sectors, particularly in industry. Un-
like in many other countries horticulture in Egypt is not a separable and in-
dependent subsector. All crop rotations generally include common horticultural
crops, although in Egyptian agriculture they may be termed field crops. The
small size of holdings and dense rural population not only permits but encour-
ages these crops to be incorporated into the general agriculture rather than
restricting them to a speciality subsector. Consequently policies and problems
affecting conventional agriculture are also fully reflected upon horticultural
activities. Because of this integration, horticulture is not considered inde-
pendently here. As seen in Table 1 Egyptian agriculture output continues to
grow in both volume and value. In 1973 production was valued at EL 1,392
million. The rate of growth was quite rapid during the sixties (4 percent) ex-
ceeding population growth by 1.5 percent. This is attributed to the substan-
tial reorganization of Egyptian agriculture which took place in the late fif-
ties and early sixties. Land reform gave rural workers a vested interest in
increasing output while the Gcovernment implemented central organization of the
sector througoh the cooperative movement contributed markedly to the increase
in inputs use (credit and fertilizers), transfer of improved technology, im-
proved marketing and more professional management via the centralization of
crop rotation planning. Stable international priced during the sixties great-
ly facilitated the Government's success in central planning and management of
agriculture, by maintaining low input prices and permitting substantial real
growth in earnings from increased exports.
1/   This section draws on material presented in Contemporary Egyptian Agri-
culture, Ford Foundation Jan. 1974. Egyptian Agriculture: Development
PrrhleTnq Conntrqints And Alternatives, IBRD 1976 and Report on Agro-
Industries and Rural Development in Egypt, IBRD March 23, 1973.



- 3 -
-Table 1: SELECTED EGYPTIAN AGRICULTURAL DATA
YEAR                 1960   1965   1969   1970    1971  1972   1973   1974
It em
Value of Output
(EL=mill)                559    797    966   1040    1123  1223   1392    -
Costs of Inputs
(EL=mill)                147    190    241    262        306   318    373    -
Value Added
(EL= mill)               412    606    725    778        817   905   1019   -
Indices of Total
Agricultural Production
FAO (1961-65=100)           84    107    123    123        127   129    130   132
USDA (1961-65=100)          -      106    114    113        117   118    119   121
Indices of Per Capita
Agricultural Production
FAO (1961-65=100)           88    102    105    102        102   101       99    97
USDA (1961-65=100)          -      101      99      96      97    96       95    94
Indices Total Food
Production
FAO (1961-65=100)           85    105    124    125        130   132    134   136
USDA (1961-65=100)          -      103    113    113       119   120    122   127
Indices of Per Capita
Food Production
FAO 1961-65=100)            90    100    105    104        105   103    101   100
USDA (1961-65=100)          -       98      98      96       99    98      97    99
Exports: (US$ mill)
Total Merchandise Trade 480.8  601.2  744.7  761.4   789.3 825.2 1,110.7  -
Food & Agricultural
Products                364.0  429.7  510.4  512.4   557.4 509.5   702.8  -
Imports: (US$ mill)
Total Merchandise Trade 700.0  933.5  637.7  770.2   919.8 898.8    -            -
Food & Agricultural
Products                233.5  297.2  217.1  209.6   309.5 283.5   310.7  -
Index of Interna-
tional Inflatior.
(IBRD 1973=100)            62.0   64.4   68.2   73.1    77.8  84.6   100  121.7



1.06      Towards the end of the decade growth in production declined sub-
stantially and failed to increase in the seventies, while rapid international
price inflation., not enjoyed by traditional Egyptian exports, reduced the
growth in real export earnings to almost zero. Outstripped by population
growth, per capita production declined. Stagnation in volume of inputs to-
gether with an inflexible central control system, whose weaknesses are highly
visible in a time of rapid price change, and poor allocations of restricted
investment in agriculture, all contributed to the decline in the performance
of the sector. Coupled i4th its dominance in 'the economy and the key roles
assigned to it in the deVelopment of the country this stagnatidn of agricul-
ture confronts Egypt with serious challenge and some hard policy decisions.
1.07      Planning, Strategies and Priorities.  Since 1965 the Egyptian system
of centralized agricultural planning has been on a short-term basis. Formal
long-term plans and goals prepared by the Ministry of Planning have been dis-
cussed by the Government but never officially adopted. Nevertheless, there
are some generally accepted policy goals and guidelines. The core of agricul-
tural policy is to use export products to reduce the imbalance of payments to
the maximum extent possible. Here cotton, rice, onions, fruits and vegeta-
bles are considered of greatest importance. Aligned with this is the aim of
ensuring production of raw materials to meet the existing industrial proces-
sing capacity. Again, of importance, here are cotton, fruits and vegetables.
On the domestic side self-sufficiency in beans, sorghum and sesame and 30 per-
cent self-sufficiency in cereal crops, mainly wheat and maize, are the major
goals.
1.08      Land Use and Cropping Patterns.  Arable land in Egypt totals about
6.3 million feddans all of which is cultivated. This amounts to 3 rural
dwellers per feddan. Annual field crops and vegetables comprise 98 percent
of this cultivation while the remaining 2 percent is under permanent crops,
mainly citrus orchards.  Arable land is the single most scarce physical
resource in Egyptian agriculture and as such is a serious constraint on
output.  It is estimated that 40,000 feddans of cultivated land are lost to
construction annually, with the vast majority of this located in the Delta
region.  This loss is offset by land reclamation activities totalling 726,000
feddans of cultivated land from 1952 to date.  According to the 1961 general
agricultural census cultivated land totalled 5,974 million feddans. Assuming
a 3 year development lag for reclaimed land the following cropping data and
intensities emerge:
Year                      1952    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
ha '000                            .
Area Cropped            9,308  10,745  10,750  10,750  10,743  10,837  10,880
Cultivated Land /1      6,294   6,386   6,402   6,396   6,401   6,401   6,363
Cropping Intensity        1.48    1.68    1.68    1.68    1.68    1.70    1.71
/1   This figure may be biased upwards by 2 to 3 percent in recent years as
some of the incremental reclaimed land may have been cultivated pre-
viously rather than have been virgin desert land.



- 5 -
This illustrates the continued effort to intensify cultivation but at the
same time displays the effort which must be made to maintain the area of
cultivated land through costly reclamation efforts.
1.09      Crops are divided into two kinds, traditional and non traditional.
Traditional crops are those which are now a major source of domestic food sup-
ply and/or foreign exchange earnings. These include wheat, rice, sugar, cot-
ton, onions, potatoes, garlic, sesame seed, groundnuts and citrus. As part of
the central planning process the Ministries of Supply, Finance and Trade in
conjunction with the Ministry of Planning determine the domestic and export
production required of Egyptian agriculture in the light of the feasible al-
ternatives provided to them by the Ministry of Agriculture. These requirements
are then implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture through its rural agents,
the cooperative societies. The required cropping patterns, input volumes and
prices of both inputs and outputs all emerge from this plan and are designed
to produce the predetermined required output. As a result farmers are faced
with few if any production choices and a predetermined margin of profit, leav-
ing no incentive to use their own initiative.
1.10      To illustrate the lack of incentive permitted the individual and
the inflexibility of the centrally planned agriculture, the area and relative
share of its major crops for selected years is given in Table 2. From this
table, it is seen that the cropping pattern has remained virtually unchanged
over a period of 14 years despite substantial changes in the international
prices of these commodities.



EGYPT
Table 2:  AREA AND SHARE OF MAJOR CROPS 1961 and 1971-1973
1959/60       1964/65      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73
CROP                  OOOfed %       OOOfed %    OOOfed %      OOOfed %    OOOfed %
Cotton                 1,873  18    1,900  19   1,525  15   1,552  15   1,655  16
Maize                  1,821  18    1,450  15   1,522  15   1,501  13   1,531  14
Sorghum                  453   5       501   5      494   5      483   5      487   5
Beans                    377   4       433   4      288   3      365   4      302   3
Rice                     706   7       848   9   1,137  11   1,146  11        997   9
Wheat                  1,456  14    1,144  11   1,349  13   1,229  12   1,248  12
Lentils                   85)           88)          65)          67)          74)
Finugreek                 43)           37)          33)          28)          30)
Lupins                    13)  3        12)  3       10)  1       10)  2        9)  2
Chickpeas                 11)            9)          10)          10)           8)
Barley                   148)          125)          70)          91)          84)
Onions /1                 49)           51)          37)          32)          27)
Vegetables               484   5       608   6      707   7      740   7      799   8
Berseem                2,413  24    2,493  25   2,770  27   2,819  27   2,874  27
Sugar Cane               111   1       129   1      193   1      202   2      198   2
Fruit                    131   1       178   2      249   2    (250)  2    (255)  2
TOTAL /2              10,174        10,006       10,419       10,535       10,578
/1   Winter Onion only, probably 50% of total.
=/2   Simple sum of indicated area.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.
1.11      The 1966 Agricultural Act, Law No. 53/1966 legislates for central
control over agriculture by empowering the Ministry of Agriculture, among
other things, to assign or deprive certain regions crops or crop rotations,
to consolidate rotations at any desired level (village, district, etc.), and
to regulate cultivation and marketing practices and schedules. These Ministe-
rial decrees are implemented at the village level by the local cooperatives
which are linked back to the Ministry of Agriculture.
1.12      Land Distribution and Tenure.  Structurally agricultural land in
Egypt is divided into three types, Old lands, comprisThg about 60 percent of
the total, Reformed lands with 30 percent and Reclaimed lands with 10 percent.
Old lands are those whose ownership has been unmodified by land reform laws
while Reformed lands are those, mainly large estates which have been expro-
priated, divided and distributed to the landless. Both are located in the
Delta and Upper Egypt Regions. Reclaimed lands are the result of Government
investment in irrigation an drainage schemes and are mostly located on the
fringes of the Delta and Upper Egypt Regions.



-7-
1.13      Land ownership in Egypt has been altered by three Agrarian Reform
Acts, 1952, 1961 and 1969. These successively limited private land ownership
to 200, 100 and 50 feddans respectively, with the final act permitting family
ownership of up to 100 feddans. Extension of families resulted in relatively
little additional effect on land distribution. These acts had the effect of
increasing the number of land owners from 2.8 million in 1952 to 3.2 million
in 1965. Since then about 400,000 new land owners have been created through
distribution of both appropriated and reclaimed lands. Holdings constituted
from Reclaimed lands and Reform lands appropriated under the Agrarian Reform
Laws range in size from 3 to 4 feddans, the individual holding size being
determind according to the productivity of the land at the time of distribu-
tion. The remaining holdings known as old lands make up the majority of both
cultivated land and holdings and are distributed as follows:
Size (Feddans)                  No. of Holdings           % of Total
Less than 1                        1,000,460                 43.0
1 to 5                             1,094,226                 47.0
5 to 10                              148,021                  6.5
10 to 15                              44,648                  2.0
15 to 25                              21,819                  1.0
Greater than 25                        12,882                 0.5
All old Lands Holdings             2,322,056                100.0
1.15      Security of tenure is not a serious problem in Egypt as the many Old
lands tenant farmers are legally protected by the Agrarian Reform Laws. These
limit land-rent to seven times the assessed land tax. Increases in rent, at
maximum, can only equal increases in land taxes, which are revised every 10
years. Continuity is provided for by a minimum three year tenancy period and
non-payment of rent is the sole ground for eviction. However, fragmentation
of holdings, mainly through inheritance, but also sales, is a problem. A novel
solution within the framework of the centrally planned agriculture has been de-
veloped, whereby each holding is allocated in the form of three non-contiguous
pieces of land based on the major crop rotation of cotton, winter legumes/
summer cereals and winter cereals/summer cereals. This permits the redistri-
buted expropriated land to be worked in large blocks as it was before thus
continuing to avail of scale economics. This type of arrangement originally
developed for reform lands, continues to be extended throughout the Old lands,
under decrees issued by the Minister of Agriculture.
1.16      Agricultural Cooperatives.  The agricultural cooperative system is
the heart of the central organization of agriculture in Egypt. Every farmer
in Egypt is required to be member of a cooperative at the local level and the
hierarchical structure provides a link between him and the Undersecretariat
for Agricultural Cooperation in the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the
supervisory and regulatory arm of the Ministry of Agriculture for the coopera-
tive movement. This linkage is shown in Chart WB 15482 which outlines the
cooperative structure. At the head is the Agricultural Cooperative Central
U"nion a consultative body comprised of representatives of the different na-
tional cooperative societies. It acts as the generul liaison between the



- 8 -
Ministry and the cooperatives. The General Reclamation Cooperative Society
and the Agrarian Reform Cooperative Society oversee the local cooperatives in
reclaimed lands (300 cooperatives) and Reformed lands (700 cooperatives), res-
pectively. The'General Agricultural Cooperative Society, known also as the
Old Lands Cooperative, oversees all cooperatives in the Old lands. At present
it has 4,000 member cooperatives. Between these three types of cooperative
societies and the local or village society are the Governorate Societies which
are area wide coordinating bodies formed from similar but smaller Regional So-
cieties which in turn are composed of groups of Local Societies. The Specific
Societies are also composed of 'Local Societies, but they are organized to pro-
mote the production, processing and marketing of one of nine specific commodi-
ties /1. Since there is much specialization in crop cultivation by region not
all Specific Societies are represented in all regions.
1.17      The local cooperative society is the focal point of agriculture in
each village. It provides all the major inputs required for traditional crops
except seed potatoes, which are supplied by the Potato Growers Cooperative,
one of the 9 specific societies. The local cooperative, also acts as a branch
bank for the General Organization for Agricultural and Cooperative Credit, in
this role it does channel the short term credit, required for the purchase of
the seed and other needs to its members. Each local society manager is an
agricultural engineer; both he and the chief clerk are appointed by the over-
seeing society at the national level while their salaries are paid in part by
the Government. They ensure that the Government plans for agriculture are
followed bv their members. This involves supervising the implementation of
crop rotations, use of recommended inputs and delivery of output quotas to the
cooperative. To this end farm business records for each farm are maintained
by the local society. It is generally conceded that there are too many local
cooperatives. Only 45 percent are profitable and many are financially very
weak. Less than one quarter of the Old Lands cooperatives own their own
buildings, the remainder rent. In many areas the Old Lands and Reform Lands
cooperatives overlap so that the two exist side by side in the same village.
This division of the local resources leaves two weak institutions. To reduce
this the General Agricultural Cooperative Society now insists on having one
cooperative per 1,500 feddans. The cooperatives are also poor in managerial
skills. The manager, as an agriculturist is adequate in his joint responsibi-
lity as the local agricultural extension agent, but having to wear two hats
results in his being unable to develop his skills as manager or to devote
sufficient time to transferring his knowledge as an extension agent.
1.18      Irrigation and DrairLage.  Because of negligible rainfall all water
used in Egyptian agriculture is applied via irrigati(n. The original system
was "basin irrigation" involving inundation of dryland basins with the annual
flood waters of the Nile, permitting one crop per year. Progressive damming
of the Nile permitted retention of flood waters in increasing amounts, making
possible a system of controlled irrigation via canals and enabling intensive
1/   These commodities are potatoes, flax, rice, oilseeds, sugarcane, onions,
garlic, cotton, fruit and vegetables.



- 9 -
cultivation to take place. Nevertheless, until completion of the Aswan Dam
seasonal water shortages occurred, farmers developed a system of over-irriga-
tion to compensate for the "dry season" somewhat comparable to fallowing in
dryland agriculture. Since there are no direct charges for water in Egypt
this practice of over-irrigation was costless to the farmer and resulted in
its being widespread and persistent.
1.19      The completion of the Aswan High Dam has resulted in a constant and
increased supply of water for irrigation. Coupled with the now outmoded tradi-
tional practice of over-irrigation and inadequate and poorly maintained drain-
age systems, the increased water supply has resulted in a rapid rise in the
groundwater level throughout the Old Lands. As a result large scale drainage
of these lands and an overhaul of the irrigation practices are required. This
is a relatively new situation but requires speedy remedial action. In the
short run the situation requires immediate action by the Extension Service to
create an awareness of the problem by the farmers and to persuade them to
adopt more appropriate irrigation practices. A direct charge for water would
undoubtedly hasten this adoption. In the longer run, unless the Government
investment pattern in agriculture alters to include this drainage to an even
greater extent than at present, the productivity of these lands will continue
to deteriorate. The Bank is already assisting in this through two large scale
drainage projects in the Delta and Upper Egypt. Already onion production, a
major traditional export crop in Upper Egypt, has declined drastically due to
the spread of White Rot, a fungus disease, via the raised water table. Since
this was the only area suitable for production for export of dry onions, the
loss is a serious one.
1.20      Production and Exports.  The composition of Egyptian agricultural
production is heavily weighted towards crops. Total crop production accounts
for about 75 percent of output. Of this, 50 percent is from field crops 10
percent from vegetables and 5 percent from fruit. Animal production, account-
ing for 25 percent of output, is mainly meat and dairy products (Table 3).
The increases in production are generally the result of increased yields since
changes in the cropping pattern were marginal.



- 10 -
Table 3: PRODUCTION OF MAJOR CROPS AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS 1960-1974
CROP                          1961        1965        1971        1973        1974
-------------      thousand tons-----------------
Cotton, unginned               999       1,501       1,417       1,368       1,285 /1
Maize                        1,617       2,141       2,342       2,507       2,850
Sorghum                        631         806         854         853         860
Beans                          161         344         256         273         290
Rice, paddy                  1,142       1,788       2,533       2,274       2,501
Wheat                        1,436       1,272       1,838       1,838       1,884
Lentils                         34          61          61          61          53
Fenugreek                       24          37          23          23         -
Lupins                           9          12           6           6
Chick Peas                       S           9           6           6
Barley                         133         130          96          96          95
Onions                         469         670         435         435         550
Vegetables                   3,424       4,636       5,778       5,778       5,800
Sugarcane                    4,195       4,747       7,349       7,349       7,350
Citrus Fruit                   -           482         923         923         950
Dates                          -           386         380         380         375
Other Fruit                    -           352         515         515         525
Livestock- Products
Meat                           215         -                       -           360
Milk                         1,11'5        -                       -         1,600
Poultry Meat                    7L         -                       -           110
Eggs                            32         -                                    55
/1   Estimated.
Source: Ministry of Agriculturie.
1.20      The major agriculturaL exports are cotton, rice, oranges, onions,
potatoes and garlic, the remaining exports comprise groundnuts and a variety
of vegetables, principally tomatoes. All other production is consumed do-
mestically. Exports of cotton, accounting for 70 percent by value of Egypt's
1973 agricultural commodity exports, peaked at 348,000 tons in 1966 now have
stabilized around 300,000 tons. Rice exports reached 772,000 tons in 1969 but
have since plummeted to about 300,000 tons due to the ressure of domestic
demand and poor growth in yields. Onion exports also declined drastically as
a result of disease via over irrigation in Upper Egypt. Exports of garlic
and potatoes have both increasel substantially. The increase in exports of
oranges has been dramatic and ii 1973 they accounted 6 percent of the value
agricultural commodity exports. Among the minor exports only tomatoes are
seen to be increasing significantly.



- 11 -
1.22      Inputs and Yields.  To ensure the planned output under this con-
trolled output price system it is necessary for the Government also to provide
inputs at a controlled price and to make the necessary supply available. The
supply of fertilizers is the responsibility of the Agricultural Stabilization
Fund (ASF) of the Ministry of Agriculture. It imports fertilizers or pur-
chases them locally according to availability, and operates a price stabili-
zation fund.   The General Organization for Agricultural and Cooperative
Credit is the agent used to transfer the fertilizers from the ASF to the local
cooperatives. Normal application rates are established by the Ministry of
Agriculture for each crop and region. These are minimum rates and are the
minimum which farmers are required to use. While the farmgate prices of fer-
tilizers have been held constant since 1960 the application rates are still
very low in comparison with those of other countries with similar intensive
agricultures. Total consumption reached 2 million tons in 1966/67 and is now
still under 2.5 million tons. The principal reason for this appears to be the
lack of financial incentive afforded to the producer rather than any lack of
supply.
Comparison of Fertilizer Application Rates (1970)
(Kg of Nutrients Per Hectare of Cropped Area)
Japan                                                   331
South Korea                                             257
Belgium                                                 307
Netherlands                                             282
D.R. of Germany                                         280
Czechoslovakia                                          223
Egypt (1972 figures)                                     94
Source: FAO Fertilizer Handbook, 1970.
Looking at individual fertilizers proves even more disturbing as the rates of
use for potash and phosphate fertilizers are extremely low, (zero with respect
to phosphate application to wheat and corn) and Government projections show
only a very minor change for potash and none for phosphates.
1.23      Credit, both short and medium-term, in agriculture is supplied al-
most exclusively through the State owned Agricultural Credit System. The
volume of credit in current terms peaked at EL 86.4 million in 1966/67 then
stagnated. In constant terms, the volume is declining. Ninety-five percent
of the loans are to supply annual operating capital. The constant 4.5 percent
interest rate further reflects the Governments low and stable input price pol-
icy. Medium-term loans are mainlv for livestock, principally draught animals.
In absolute terms Government expenditure in agriculture has similarly stag-
nated and the outlook for the future is for this to continue, implying a dec-
line in relative terms. Much of existing investment continues to be directed
towards horizontal expansion, i.e.land reclamation and irrigation. There is



a constant demand by private farmers for high quality tractors and machinery
to replace draught animals and increasingly scarce and expensive labor. The
major sources of tractors are domestic production and imports from Comecon
countries as part of bilateral trade agreements. But these are unpopular
with farmers due to their reputed inferior quality and high price. Tractor
imports from Western (hard currency) countries remain severely restricted due
to balance of payments considerations.
1.24      Egypt's crop yields compare favorably with those of other countries
with intensive agricultures. But, when set against the low input levels, it
is seen that the natural resources of the country are largely to be credited
for these. In view of the excellent natural resource base yields should be
far greater.
EGYPT
Table 4: YIELD OF MAJOR CROPS 1960-1973
(kg/feddan)
CROP                             60/61       70/71       72/73     Growth Rate %
(1961)     (1971)      (1973)
Seed Cotton                        502         929         855          6.5
Maize  t                         1,009       1,539       1,515          3.5
Sorghum                          1,379       1,729       1,753          2.0
Beans                              490         880         904          6.8
Rice paddy                       2,126       2,228       2,281          0.5
Wheat                            1,038       1,283       1,473          2.9
Lentils                            540         763         829          3.5
Finugreek                          590         727         763          2.2
Lupine                             640         642         641          -
Chickpeas                          650         755         726          1.0
Barley                           1,099       1,080       1,140          0.3
Onions                             469         490         435         -0.6
Sugar Cane (tons/feddan)            38          39          37          _
Source: Ministry of Agriculure.
1.25      The progress in yield increases is seen in Table 4 to be generally
sustained but ranging from unspectacular to negative. It is definitely below
what could reasonably be expected of a country as adv.-iced as Egypt. For the
major cereal crops it is quite poor. The quantum jump in the 1973 wheat
yield was the result of additional nitrogenous fertilizer and illustrates
the potential response existing.
1.26      Research and Extensions. The research and extension services of
the Ministry of Agriculture are well established and in existence throughout
Egypt. While actively engaged in improving all facets of agriculture these
services do have definite short:comings. The highly centralized and heavily
bureaucratic organization has tended to stifle individual initiative, while



13 -
a shortage of transportation and equipment has severely limited overall ef-
fectiveness, particularly of the extension services. A lack of communication
between the two services delays transmission of research results and isolated
researchers from production problems. Finally and most serious is the over-
burdening of the village agent with the management of the affairs of the local
cooperative. These issues are recognized by the Government and efforts are
underway to improve the services.
1.27      Prices and Returns.  Producer prices for all major traditional crops
are announced annually by the Government. They are determined in view of the
Government's current policy of transferring as much income as possible from
agriculture. To achieve this, prices equalize the per feddan return over
variable cost with the annual rental cost. As seen in Table 5, these policies
are reflected in the major crop price trends. Because the public sector is
dominant in the marketing of traditional crops, net returns are low by compari-
son with fruit, vegetables and livestock where either marketing, or both mar-
keting and prices are free of Government control (Table 6). Despite this, no
major shifts in production are seen (Table 2), illustrating the effectiveness
of Government control over cropping patterns. In the absence of an alterna-
tive system, such as a rural savings and loan market, for transferring income
from agriculture it is difficult to foresee any change in the current agricul-
tural price policy.



- 14 -
Table 5:  FARM GATE PRICES OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS 1965, 1970-1973
CROP                       1965         1970          1971         1972         1973
-----------------------EL/Ton-----------------------
Wheat                      30.2         39.28         35.35        34.68        38.18
Barley                     25.73        34.31        41.98         32.48        39.23
Maize                      25.06        29.98         28.20        34.84        43.41
Rice                       21.25        28.42        27.46         26.84        28.17
Beans                      49.79        47.40        57.40         54.63        53.79
Cotton                     99.60       115.38       115.64        125.97       123.69
Peanuts                    90.77        86.64        87.17         88.37        91.17
Sugarcane                   2.82         2.91         2.89          3.22         4.06
Onions, Winter             11.6         14.0          15.5         13.7         18.9
Onions, other              14.3         13.7          15.6         14.4         17.1
Vegetables
Winter                     17.36        24.34        22.41         26.15        38.54
Summer                     14.60        17.66        18.98         30.90        22.42
Nile                       21.10        24.46         25.38        37.24        40.51
Fruits
Citrus                     22.99        24.09        24.32         26.22        30.86
Dates                      25.00        25.00         25.00        28.00        30.00
Other                      43.25        39.10         48.40        50.44        52.27
Livestock Products
Milk                       50.00        57.70         62.70        65.80        73.00
Cattle Meat               382.00       487.00       483.00        502.00       550.00
Poultry Meat              356.00       326.00       389.00        401.00       446.00
Eggs                      212.50       262.50       275.00        315.00       345.00
Sources: Agricultural Research Center, Ministry of Agriculture.



- 15 -
Table 6:- NET RETURN PER FD TO FARMERS INCLUDING RENT AS A COST, 1973
FIELD CROP (1973)                                                      EL/FD
Wheat (6 months)                                                          14
Cotton (7-8 months)                                                       29
Beans (4-5 months)                                                        12
Rice (6 months)                                                           13
Maize (6 months)                                                          21
Sugar Cane (12 months)                                                    69
Forage, Fruit and Vegetables (1974)
Permanent Berseem (7 months)                                             101
Short Season Berseem (3-4 months)                                         60
Oranges                                                                100-250
Grapes                                                                 100-150
Tomatoes (4 months)
Traditional method (Bush)                                              150
Wire method (Trellis)                                                  200
Watermelons (4 months)                                                   100
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.
Note: Cotton occupies the land from 8 to 10 months per year; wheat, corn and
rice roughly 6 months.
1.28      Price Policies and Marketing.  The major agricultural markets in
Egypt are characterized by the Government's use of the marketing system to im-
plement its central policy of extracting the surplus earnings from agriculture.
This is achieved via mandatory deliveries to the Government and the replace-
ment of the natural price making forces with a system of dictated prices. The
cooperative system acts as the principal Government marketing agency, a role
shared with the public sector agri-business firms such as the Nile and El Wadi
companies. Farmers are required, under penalty, to deliver to the cooperatives
all of their output of nonfood crops and a minimum quantity per unit area grown
of food crops. Purchases by cooperatives on behalf of the Government are pro-
cessed by state owned companies and sold domestically, in stores operated by
the Ministry of Supply, together with imported food, or, exported by the public
sector companies. In the past this permitted the Government to exert signifi-
cant control over domestic food prices and to transfer surplus earnings in
agriculture to other sectors. But now, due to increasing demand and tight
supply, domestic prices are increasing.
1.29      Prices paid to the farmers are established at a level designed to
bring forth these estimated required supplies. This supply is the volume of
export crops calculated to produce planned export earnings and the volume
of basic food crops, such as cereals and field beans needed to operate the



- 11 -
domestic food program featuring low and stable prices. This program is aimed
primarily although not exclusively at those with low incomes. These producer
price levels are low, probably the minima concomitant with the required supply
in order to minimize direct domestic food price subsidies and to maximize
Government earnings from agricultural exports.
1.30      Operating parallel to this public marketing system is a private sys-
tem where farmers may sell their surplus production of food crops having ful-
filled their legal quotas. This market caters to the needs of all but the
very low income groups. The long queues and consequent delays at the Ministry
of Supply food stores tends to equalize cost of food in the public and private
markets to those with a positive opportunity cost to their time thus restrict-
ing their patrons to those with low incomes. The service charges of profes-
sional queuers also equalizes the costs. The private marketing system is
widespread in that private sector operations in processing wholesaling and
retailing of agricultural products are common. They are not constrained by
the official output price system, but, because of the Government's need to
acquire supplies they are often discriminated against. As an example, dur-
ing the rice harvesting/marketing season at the end of 1975, in addition to
an increase in price paid by cooperatives, private rice mills were required
to close down their operations for the duration of the marketing season in
order to encourage farmers to deliver their rice to the cooperatives. At
the same time the Government announced that the penalties against farmers
for non-delivery of their legal quota would be strictly enforced.
1.31      This constant pressure on the producers to market via public sector
institutions and difficulties in acquiring capital militate against expansion
of private sector operations. Together with a general suspicion of profiteer-
ing by the private firms, this results in their maintaining low profile, in
that they do not actively seek to enlarge their volume for fear of further dis-
crimination. Nevertheless, since they pay higher prices than the Government
and operate an informal grade-price system, producers rationally prefer to
deliver as much as possible to the private market channel, especially the
higher quality output. Because of regulated cropping patterns to ensure pro-
duction of the Government's needs, farmers are unable to divert land to the
more lucrative crops. Over 60 percent of the area cropped is under regulated
crops. This in combination with the low producer prices for these crops en-
sures low earnings in agriculture; which in turn restricts incentive to in-
crease efficiency and output and allows for little or no private investment
in agriculture.
1.32      For non-traditional crops, particularly nop-'itrus fruits and vege-
tables, domestic marketing is generally through the private system and the
private dealers are more visible. Both they and the specialty cooperatives
handle the crops and transfer them to retail markets via daily auctions. To
handle exports of edible crops the Government established two public sector
concerns El Wadi and the Nile Company. These were designed to compete with
each other at the farm gate level, however, after the establishment of the
Nile Company they came to a de facto agreement whereby El Wadi would handle



- 17 -
all citrus exports together with minor amounts of the other products, while
the Nile would handle the remaining products, mainly rice, potatoes, ground-
nuts, onions, tomatoes, other vegetables and herbs. In an era of promotion
of planned specialization these monopolies received the tacit consent of the
Government. As a result, these firms have profited, but , as their balance
sheets show, these earnings are transferred to the Government.
1.33      Under pressure from the producer organizations the Government
established a third export concern in the form of a cooperative organization,
the Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC), under the
auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, in 1971 to counteract the monopoly in
vegetable exports. Although drastically under capitalized, it has carried
out a relatively successful export operation, albeit a very low level. Pri-
vate firms also export crop products but have been restricted to handling
non-traditional crops. Citrus producer cooperatives are now endeavoring to
break the El Wadi monopoly on citrus exports by acquiring their own packing
plants. Recent legislation (Law No. 118/1975) now permits greater freedom to
Egyptians to export, in that private firms and individuals may now export
traditional as well as non-traditional crops although only for local currency
rates. However, the Minister of Trade is empowered to restrict or prohibit
export of certain commodities or place certain conditions on their exports.
1.34      Development Constraints, Strategy and Priorities.  Progress in the
agricultural sector is faltering under the heavy burden of having to finance
both its own development and that elsewhere in the economy. The constraints
to growth in Egyptian agriculture are seen to be both physical and financial.
Physical constraints are the quantity and quality of cultivated land available
and existing yield coefficients. The financial constraints lie in the low
profit margins for traditional crops coupled with the regimented cropping
patterns giving low returns per holding. Up to now the Government's strategy
has been to resolve the quantitative physical constraint through a program of
horizontal expansion, i.e., land reclamation projects. This has been costly
and slow to produce results, as the reclaimed land requires much development
to make it fertile. Recently the approach has been reviewed in order to spur
faster growth in agricultural production. It is now proposed to embark on a
program of vertical expansion involving increasing the productivity of ex-
isting land, including that already reclaimed. It is agreed that this will
involve increases in both the quantity and quality of inputs used, but, no de-
tails are as yet available on how this is to be brought about.
1.35      In selecting and reviewing investment and price policies the plan-
ners should be more concerned with the cost effectiveness of these. The use
of such a criterion would undoubtedly have long ago reduced desert land re-
clamation activities in favor of improvement of existing land as a means of
efficiently increasing output. If the indirect costs such as the loss of
potential output through lack of price incentives were also included, the
criterion would cast serious doubt as to the wisdom of the method presently
used to achieve Government's current objective to transfer earnings from
agriculture.



- 18 -
1.36      Thus it becomes essential that the planners perceive the input
needs of the sector in terms of the more complex financial incentives as well
as simple physical inputs. There is no doubt that output will increase as
long as the physical constraints are reduced but, in view of Egypt's need for
rapid progress in this area, it is essential that any revision in the ap-
proach to this problem gives serious consideration to providing an opportu-
nity to the farmer to respond to the demands of the market place to a greater
degree than at present. Continued stress on increasing output through phys-
ical planning as is done now will involve an even greater policing effort
on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture than have before to ensure that
planned crop rotations are carried out, that the regulation level of inputs
are applied and that required crop quotas are delivered to the Government
stores. Even with such an effort, progress is likely to continue to be slow
and faltering due, to a lack of reward for the individual throughout the
process.
1.37      It is axiomatic that public inputs, such as research, training and
extension, must be improved together with increased investment in drainage,
soil amelioration and seed and fertilizer improvements, if yields are to in-
crease in the long run. But, in the short term it appears to be of immediate
necessity to increase production incentives by either increasing profit mar-
gins in the less profitable crops or deregulating cropping patterns or a mix-
ture of both if Egyptian agriculture is to continue to fulfill its functions.



- 19 -
CHAPTER 2 - THE PROJECT
I.  GENERAL
2.01      The Project aims essentially at generating foreign exchange earn-
ings and increasing agricultural productivity in the horticultural subsector,
in the New Lands as well as in the Old Lands. The Project adheres closely
to Government stated agricultural development objectives which are: (a)
vertical expansion in the newly reclaimed and old lands of the Nile Valley
and the Delta; (b) provision of necessary capital base and technical as-
sistance to the processing and marketing institutions of horticultural
crops in Egypt; (c) development of research, extension and training in the
horticultural subsector; (d) development of medium term credit to agroin-
dustries and (e) establishment of more effective and autonomous institu-
tional and production structures commercially oriented and committed to en-
suring high productivity and financial viability.
2.02      The above objectives would be achieved through subprojects including:
(a) Vegetable seed production in already reclaimed land of West
Nubariya, on about 23,000 feddans. This subproject would pro-
duce within five years about 50% of the national requirements
vegetable seeds of about 11 species;
(b) Provision of funds for research, breeding and seed certifica-
tion in fruit and vegetable subsector to benefit vegetable
producers all over the country;
(c) Construction of 67 km drainage canal in the West Nubariya area
to collect drainage water from about 280,000 feddans, of which
about 180,000 feddans are already cultivated with fruit and
vegetable crops. Such investment would alleviate and help
solve in the long run the water logging and salinity problems
presently encountered in the already cultivated 180,000
feddans where the proposed seed production subproject would
take place;
(d)  Construction of potato cold stores, with a total capacity of
24,000 tons to enable Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC), assembling
about 33,220 members, to purchase certified seed potatoes grown
locally and to store them for the following season. This would
reduce Egypt's annual import of seed potatoes from about 25,000
tons to about 5,000 tons;
(e) Construction of citrus packing stations and provision of trans-
port facilities for Government owned El Wadi Export Company for
increasing citrus export from 200,000 tons to about 400,000 tons
within five years;



- 2C -
(f) Provision of vegetable grading and packing stations, cold stores,
and transportation facilities for the Government owned Nile Com-
pany and for the Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural
Crops (UPEHC). These investments would help Egypt fulfill its
export program to free currency countries in the Middle East and in
Europe;
(g)  Provision of a general agroindustries credit allocation, and
technical assistance for Bank Misr for development of credit to
agroindustries in fruit and vegetable subsector, and setting up
of medium- and long-term credit unit for agriculture production
within Bank Misr.
II. VEGETABLE SEED COMPONENTS
General
2.03      Production:  The total seed requirements, the amounts of seed pro-
duced locally by Egyptian Agricultural Organization (EAO) under contract with
farmers and the amounts imported indicate a large deficit (80%) between the
amounts required and the amounts available. The only exception is watermelon
for which self-sufficiency is a'lmost attained (70-80%). The deficit for the
other seeds is met either by farmers or by local dealers, who themselves often
produce seed for sale. By this method of production, varieties tend to dete-
riorate quickly. A ready market for imported seed exists at two to three
times the domestic seed prices.
2.04      Organization:  The responsibility for the production of vegetable
seeds at present is as follows: breeders' seed and basic seed (both founda-
tion and registered seed) are produced by the Vegetable Research Institute,
while certified seeds are produced by the EAO.
(i)  Production of breeders' seed:  The Institute produces these
at its main station in Cairo and at its substations at Kanatar,
Sabahia, Nubariya, Kaha, Sids, Gemeza, Bahtim and Bebal-el-Asfar.
No records are given of the amounts of breeders' seeds produced
by the Institute and its stations, but the amounts are small.
Facilities and equipment, both in the field and in the labora-
tories are poor, and oroduction of better varieties slow, despite
the large number of staff available. In reccnt years a wilt-
resistant watermelon variety (Giza 1) has been developed by the
Institute. It is now grown in most of the watermelon area. A
bean variety (Giza 3) resistant to the bean fly has also been
developed and now occupies about 50% of the bean areas. Varietal
trials are being carried out and plant breeders are working to
produce new types of better quality vegetables, which have also
resistance to diseases and pests.



- 21 -
(ii)  Production of basic seeds:  Basic seeds are grown at the research
stations, and the quantities produced seem to vary from year to
year. For many varieties, imported certified seeds are used as
basic seeds. The availability of reliable basic seeds, in
adequate quantities, is a problem, due to lack of facilities
and equipment and a regular production schedule. Facilities
for processing basic seeds are scarce, old, and not well
adapted. Recently the Institute has purchased a high capacity
airscreen cleaner (5 tons per day of large seed), and a gravity
separator (5 tons per day). Storage facilities are poor. A
newly-built air-conditioned and dehumidified store of about 150
cubic metres was to be added to the Institute facilities. This
was not yet realized in November 1975.
(iii)  Production of certified seeds:  Certified seeds are produced by
the EAO through contracts with farmers (peas, cowpeas, beans,
tomatoes and partially cucumbers), and Government farms (all
other species, excluding peppers and eggplants). Peppers and
eggplant seeds are produced by the Vegetable Research Institute
at its stations. Certified seeds are produced in several dis-
tricts (e.g. Kanatar, Kaha, Sids, Bahtim and Gemeza). Water-
melons and other cucurbits are only produced in North Tahrir and
in Mariut by the Land Development and Cultivation Organization
(LDCO). A general problem faced in contracting with private
growers is that they often sell the produce to the fresh vege-
table markets, rather than deliver the seeds to the EAO accord-
ing to the terms of the contract. For roguing and inspection no
trained staff or funds or transport are available, and the EAO
has to borrow some of the specialists from the Vegetable Research
Institute, but their numbers are not sufficient for proper super-
vision. Nine officers from the EAO have had some training in
vegetable seed production, but in general staff are inadequate to
execute the recommendations of the Vegetable Research Institute.
The necessary machinery for seed extraction and processing is not
available either. This results in poor looking seed with low
purity and germination, from which growers turn away, preferring
to grow their own seeds, while those who can afford it, buy im-
ported seeds.
2.05      Marketing:  Marketing of vegetable seeds is the responsibility of
the EAO, which has a network of branches through which sales are arranged.
There are no promotion or advisory services. Seed prices are calculated on
the basis of the price paid to the contract grower, then a percentage for
processing, handling, storage and marketing is added. No breakdown of this
percentage has been given or worked out. Salaries of staff employed in EAO
are not charged in the calculation of costs of seeds. Government gives an
annual subsidy to the EAO but this subsidy is supposed to be used for the
field crops only.



-  2 -
2.06      Seed testing and certification.  There is a seed testing laboratory
in the Ministry of Agriculture, but there is no legislation for vegetable seed
and no proper facilities for testing the purity or freedom from diseases and
pests. Thus, although seeds offered for sale are required to be tested and
officially labelled by the Ministry, no real certification exists.
2.07      Training.  There are no programs in universities for training in
seed production or in other aspects of seed technology. During the past de-
cade a few staff members of the Vegetable Research Institute received training
abroad, and some technicians have been trained in vegetable seed production
and processing, but the need to have many more persons trained remains acute.
Government Policy for Vegetable Seed Production
2.08      Government is now taking steps to improve vegetable certified seed
production domestically, both Ln quality and quantity, and has decided on the
following actions:
(i)  Strengthening of research and breeding capacity and facili-
ties to create and produce breeders and foundation seed of
new and better varieties;
(ii)  Strengthening and equipping of the Seed Certification Agency,
of the Ministry of Agriculture, to execute legislation for cer-
tifying vegetable seeds, according to international standards,
including decontrol of certified seed prices to promote produc-
tion of certified seeds;
(iii)  Strengthening and expanding the production of high quality
certified seeds, to cover the requirements of at least 50% of
the area under important vegetable crops within a period of
five years, leading to complete self-sufficiency in future.
This would be done by devoting 23,000 feddans of the West
Nubariya area of the New Lands to the production of vegetable
seeds. In future, the remaining 50% can be produced either
on contract with farmers in other parts of Egypt, or through
expansion of the West Nubariya area. In view of the risk for
disease contamination,it is advisable not to produce more
than 50% of the seed requirements on the same area. The
Ministry of Agriculture believes that concentrated production
on land under control will ensure safer production in view
of rotation, isolation and yield requirements. Furthermore
the organizational and technological know-how of a vegetable
seed industry will have to be built up, completed and the
forming of a "large nucleus" of a seed industry on the New
Land, as a start to full coverage of seed requirements, is
considered reasonable and practical. Experience in management,
organization, techncilogy of production and processing could
be better attained wEen exercised in a concentrated area, where
good mobility is assured, and where services and technical as-
sistance could be used efficiently.



- 23 -
2.09      The project aims at assisting the Government in implementing the
above policies in the recognition that seed production in the New Lands will
be costly and that the development of the West Nubariya area for this purpose
will involve high overheads; that expensive general infrastrucure and equipment
have to be provided, and that seed yields in the initial years will be low.
The alternative of continuing the present system of production on contract in
scattered areas, though cheaper, has over many years proved inadequate and
progress has been slow. The New Lands on which so much has been spent should
be developed, because their suitability for seed production from a climatic
and isolation point of view give them advantages, as does the centralization
of production in a compact area.
2.10      The West Nubariya area has been chosen as climatic conditions are
good for seed production and soil conditions suitable, provided soil fertility
can be built up and salinity hazards avoided. The West Nubariya area is also
one of the few areas where about 6,000 feddans could be made available for
vegetable seed production within a reasonable rotation requiring over 20,000
feddans. An independent public owned Seed Company, would be in charge of the
production of basic and certified seeds as well as the processing, handling,
quality control and marketing of certified seeds, while assistance would be
given to strengthen the Seed Certification Agency and to strengthen the
Breeding Unit in the Vegetable Research Institute at Dokki.
A. Nubariya Seed Production Corporation (NSPC)
Subproject Area
2.11      A map of the subproject area is attached.  The Seed Production Farm
would be created on a 31,400 feddan gross area in the shape of a rectangle 9
km wide by 13 km long, located in the New Lands west of the Nubariya Canal.
Geographical limits are the Desert Highway between km 66 and 74 1/, the Nasr
Canal, the Mechanized Farm Canal or Hidia Canal and the Gianaklis Farm.
Ground elevations are about 30 m above sea level on the high side--the Desert
Highway--and about 15 m on the low side on the Gianaklis limit. Water supply
is pumped from the Nubariya Canal into the Nasr Canal by 3 electrical pumping
stations (existing) and is distributed through a network of open canals by
gravity. Net area is 23,000 fd after deducting the villages -- 2,500 fd --
the rocky soils -- 550 fd -- the strips used by canals and drains, large or
small -- 5,350 fd. Climate is hot and arid. Average data at Damanhour in-
dicates for July and January: temperature 260C and 130C, respectively, re-
lative humidity 70 and 69; evaporation 5.8 and 2.8 mm/day (annual 1,700 mm).
1/   Measured from Alexandria.



- 24 -
Rainfall is about nil from April to October, monthly maximum in December with
21 mm, total average 99 mm per year. The soils are mostly sandy, high in
calcium carbonate; sodium is not excessive and agricultural potential should
be satisfactory once the organic matter content is increased by a few years
of preliminary cultivation of green manure. Transportation is easy at about
70 km of Alexandria and 140 km of Cairo by the Desert Highway. The subproject
area is also bisected by the Gianaklis Road connecting the Desert Highway to
Damanhour inside the Nile Delta.
Present Irrigation and Development
2.12      The subproject area is a part of the first zone to be served by
the Nasr Canal and it is already provided with nearly complete irrigation
and drainage facilities, of which design and construction were carried out
from 1968 to the present. The Ministry of Irrigation was responsible for
the major works: Nasr Canal, pumping stations, main and branch canals and
drains --whereas the Ministry of Agriculture, through two different organiza-
tions 1/, carried out the equipment of the tertiary units--of 60 to 100
fd--land leveling and land amelioration by alfalfa cultivation during 2 to 4
years. About 190 km of tertiary irrigation canals need still to be lined
and canal regulating structures and intakes which do not permit an adequate
checking of water distribution should be replaced.
2.13      Nasr Canal.  The existing Nasr Canal gets its supply from the
Nubariya Canal by pumping. It has been designed to serve eventually 300,000
feddan gross with a total length of 150 km. Its first stretch, 20 km long up
to the Desert Highway, was constructed, with Russian assistance, between
1968-1971. It is concrete lined and three large electrical pumping stations
lift the water from about 6 meter level in the Nubariya Canal up to 30 eleva-
tion near the Desert Highway. The Nasr Canal main features are the following:
Initial discharge:                    10 million m3/day or 116 m3/s. 2/
Width at full supply level.:          32 m
Depth:                                4.10 m plus 1 m free board
The pumping stations are each Equipped with 12 units, including two standby.
Total installed power is estimated at 60,000 KVA tentatively for a total
geometric head of about 25 m. Four public sector civil contractors carried
out the canal excavation and lining. The pumping plants were built up by
three other contractors also of the public sector.  The pumping units and
1/   (i)  Land Rehabilitation and Agricultural Projects Organization:  LRAPO,
to plan, design, supervise construction and initiate cultivation for
building up soil fertility; and (ii) Land Reclamation Organization:
LRO, to carry out construction through the public sector con-
tractors.
2/   Presently, only 10 to 15 m3/s are necessary.



- 25 -
ancillary equipment was imported from IJSSR.  The Nasr Canal which runs against
the natural slope of the lands is deeply excavated on the suction side of each
pumping station and raised above ground level on the delivery side. Its con-
struction is presently completed up to the bridge of the Desert Highway.
2.14      Major Irrigation Canals.  The subproject area is served by gravity
by four main canals with a total length of 46 km. Each main canal feeds 2 or
3 branch (or secondary) canals, irrigating sectors of 1,500 to 2,000 feddan
--600 to 850 ha; subsectors are sometimes served by smaller branch canals.
Alignments are broken at right angles in order to divide the land into rec-
tangular tertiary irrigation quarters, also called team units or "ocha".
Main branch and sub-branch canals are trapezoidal, skirted by an earth track
6 m wide and concrete lined with some exceptions. Canal sections and slopes
are designed for the conveyance of a peak water duty (July) of 60 m3/day per
feddan--equivalent to 1.66 1/s/ha--allowing for 15% conveyance and operation
losses and 40% field losses. I/ Main and branch canal intakes are controlled
by simple steel slide gates and discharges are adjusted manually according to
the differences of levels upstream and downstream. Canals are divided into
several reaches, where downstream water level is controlled by a static
regulator. Excess flow is discharged only at the tail of the canal through a
glory hole escape; there is no intermediate safety structure along the canal
to cope with operational errors and overflow.
2.15      Major Drains.  Excess water from the subproject area is collected
by a system of branch and main drains discharging into a General Drain No. 6
which follows the land dominant slope, almost parallel and at mid-distance to
both the Mechanized Farm Canal and the Gianaklis Road. After entering the
Gianaklis Farm, Drain No. 6 turns to the right, eastward, crosses the Nasr
Canal (large reinforced concrete flume) and discharges into the Nubariya
Canal at about two km upstream from the Nasr Canal intake. This surprising
layout was designed as a temporary measure to increase the dilution of the
salts contained in the drainage water (para 2.44). MIajor drains were excavated
by hand, with trapezoidal cross sections.  The specific drainage discharge,
used as a design criterion is a decreasing function of the size of the drained
area, from 2 I/s/ha for areas of 100 fd down to 0.33 1/s/ha for 100,000
feddans. This latest value is equivalent to 12 m3/fd/day i.e., 40% of the
corresponding water duty. Depths adopted for the drains are 3.50 m for
Drain No. 6, 3 m for the main drains and 2.50 m for the branch or secondary
drains.
2.16      Tertiary Irrigation Canals.  The land is divided into tertiary
units, locally known as "team units" or "ocha". Each ocha covers about 50
to 80 feddans with a standard width of 300 m and an average length of 900 m.
Tertiary canals are those which serve one, or sometimes two ochas. These
1/   Assuming that field irrigation efficiency is 60%.



- 26 -
canals branch off from the secondary canals by means of a double-baffle dis-
tributor. Tertiary canals, tertiary drains and on-farm development works are
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture as indicated in para 2.12.
Surface irrigation is applied by the border strips or furrows methods: to
this end, the land was leveled plot by plot. Standard size of each plot is
150 x 300 m, i.e., 10 feddans or 4.2 ha: there are 5 to 8 plots in one ocha.
Tertiary canal is designed for 160 lls, allowing for 10 1/s losses, and can
deliver simultaneously 50 l/s to three adjacent plots which are irrigated and
cultivated together, as required by farm mechanization.
2.17      Tertiary Drains.  Each ocha is bordered by the tertiary canal on one
of the long sides and by a tertiary drain on the other. Then tertiary drains
discharge in the secondary or branch drains and their designed depth was 1.80
to 2.00 m. They are skirted by a farm track built up with the soil. The ter-
tiary drains are generally spaced by 300 m and sometimes by 600 m when the
tertiary irrigation canal serves one ocha on either side.
2.18      Existing Farms.  The project area is divided into several farms of
net area ranging from 1,500 to 3,000 feddans. The farms after being equipped
with the irrigation network by the LRO and first cultivated during 2 to 4
years by the LRAPO are handed over to a third organization of the Ministry of
Agriculture: the Land Development and Cultivation Organization (LDCO). Area
of each farm and progress of development are shown in an Annex in the Project
File. Presently, about 70% of the subproject area has been handed over to
LDCO and the remainder will be during 1976.
2.19     Present Situation of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure.  In-
side the subproject area, some works are not entirely completed, namely as
regards the lining of secondary and tertiary canals, the excavation of sec-
ondary and tertiary drains and the construction of field drains. To date some
design standards have not been satisfactorily complied with, therefore, ad-
ditional works are still necesary. Furthermore, part of the existing network
needs important repairs. Modifications and additions to the irrigation canal
equipment should also improve the system efficiency and safety. Because of
the partial completion or of damages already caused to canal linings and struc-
tures and of the necessity to improve water distribution, the mission has re-
commended that a package of rehabilitation and completion works should be
undertaken under the subproject. A main drainage outfall independent of the
Nubariya Canal has also to be built (paras 2.50-2.53).
Necessity of Improving Irrigation and Drainage Network
2.20      Waterlogging and Salinity.  Experiences of prolonged irrigation in
the neighboring areas--Mariut, North Tahrir, Mechanizo. Farm for instance--
have shown the occurences of waterlogging and salinity. Before irrigation
was developed in the West Nubariya area, groundwater was relatively deep and
flowing to the southwest, into the Wadi Natrun depression. During the last
decade, because of intensive irrigation, the water table rose considerably
causing severe waterlogging and salinity to areas adjacent to the proposed
23,000 feddan Seed Production Farm. Groundwater is saline--2,000 to 3,000 ppm
with prevalence of sodium chloride--and may have a direct adverse effect on



- 27 -
cultivation, if close to the ground. Besides, it is likely to contaminate
the Nasr Canal water by seepage in those sections where the canal is deeply
incised into the ground. Similar effects have been experienced in the Mecha-
nized Farm Canal for several years.
2.21     Solutions to this waterlogging problem are twofold:  (i) reducing
percolation losses mostly by improving irrigation efficiency by better dis-
tribution control and (ii) field drainage to prevent the saline aquifer from
spoiling the root zone. The reduction of percolation loss would impose the
lining of all irrigation canals, including the tertiary canals. The improve-
ment of irrigation efficiency would be achieved by the Project through a
triple action: (i) construction of more reliable and accurate distribution
structures at the intakes of the canals; (ii) a careful water management, with
accurate scheduling of water requirements, the enforcement of continuous
irrigation 24 hours per day during the peak season; and (iii) careful field
irrigation practices, using small borders or shorter furrows, applying small
doses of water applications in line with the small field capaciy of the sandy
soils and their high intake rate. 1/
2.22      Field drains would collect the surplus underground water and pre-
vent its rise into the soils top layers. Percolation losses are presently
estimated at 3 mm/day and cannot realistically be expected to get lower than
2 mm/day with surface irrigation. Therefore, the rise of the aquifer close to
ground level will soon follow the development of intensive irrigated cultiva-
tion: the land natural slope, about 1 m per km, is quite insufficient to
allow for natural drainage through the underlying porous layers. Field
drains would be designed to intercept the rising water table at a level ac-
ceptable for plant growth. These field drains would consist of the tertiary
drains deepened at 2-2.50 m below surface level--and where necessary under-
ground pipes placed at right angle to the tertiary drains and discharging into
them. Field data concerning hydraulic conductivity and the thickness of the
underlying pervious layers, are still insufficient and would be surveyed be-
fore starting implementation. However, an estimate of the maximum and mini-
mum spacings of 1.80 m deep field drains would be 300 m and 75 m, respectively.
If the larger spacing is found adequate, tertiary drains having the same
spacing would properly check the water table. Wherever the tertiary drains are
600 m apart, they should be supplemented by tile drains. Tile drains would
also be used wherever field drainage is required at less than 300 m spacing.
Production Program and Targets
2.23      The Program.  The seed production program would cover all essential
aspects, so that an efficient, well equipped organization with well trained
staff could be built. The initial five years of the project would be used to
1/   Future use of sprinkling irrigation is contemplated in the adjacent area
yet to be reclaimed. The mission could not recommend sprinkling in the
23,000 area which is already fully served by open canals with tertiaries
at 300 m spacing.



collect experience and knowledge for the safe, reliable, efficient and conti-
nuous production of quality seeds, so that the achievement of 100% of require-
ments, in a following phase, could be made easier and safer. For this reason
the number of vegetable crops is restricted to three large groups--legumes,
solanaceous crops and cucurbits, plus a popular Egyptian leaf vegetable,
mallow or Mulukhiya. The crops selected and the phasing of the percentages
of the targets are listed below:
Crops                       years:      1        2       3        4        5
 ______________   %___________
1.  Peas                              10      10       20       35      50
2.  Cowpeas                           10      10       20       35      50
3.  Tomatoes                          10      10       20       35      50
4.  Peppers                           10      10       20       35      50
5.  Eggplants                         10      10       20       35      50
6.  Cucumbers                         10      10       20       35      50
7.  Watermelon                       80       80       80       80      80
8.  Sweetmelon                        10      10       20       35      50
9.  Squash                            10      20       40       60      80
10.  Mallow                            10      10       20       35      50
11.  Potatoes                           4      10       12       20      30
As indicated earlier, for safety reasons a maximum of 50% of annual needs
will be produced within the 23,000 feddans. Farmers are expected to continue
growing seeds for themselves, the percentage of which is estimated at 20% of
total needs. Thus only 80% of the total annual need would be sold in the
market and of which probably 10-20% would still be imported.
2.24      Targets for Certified Seeds.  For all seeds except watermelon and
squash, the phasing is 10% for the first two years followed by 20% in year 3,
35% and 50% in years 4 and 5 respectively. For watermelons more than 50% is
already produced, while for squash experience on some larger scale exists, so
that phasing can be speeded from year 2 onwards. The amounts of seed to be
produced in years 1 to 5 and the corresponding areas required by kind of crop
are given in table 4 of the Project File. At full developmment the Project
would produce about 923 tons of vegetable seeds including 400 tons of peas,
210 tons of cowpeas, 115 tons of watermelons, 50 tons of squash and 40 tons of
tomatoes. It is assumed also that green beans seed would continue to be
produced under contracts in the Nile Delta, and would reach about 580 tons by
1981 bringing the total vegetables seed production of Egypt at about 1,600
representing about 60% of Egypt's total requirements. These amounts are based
on the above percentages of total annual requirements, and on a phasing of
seed yield per feddan in years 1 - 5. The total area allocated for certified
seed production in the Project area at full development would be about 5,500
feddans (excluding the 2,850 feddans of potatoes) within a total rotation area
of 22,800 feddans. The 6,000 feddans allow for some spare land in case some
crops give a lower yield increase than anticipated. In a Phase II of the
Project other crops could be included in the rotation (cabbage, cauliflower,
lettuce, okra, radish, turnips, parsley etc).



- 29 -
2.25      Basic Seed Targets.  The total area needed for basic seed produc-
tion at full development will be about 200 feddans, and would produce about
50 tons of basic seeds. Basic seeds would be produced one season before the
certified seed is due for production.
Crop Rotation Requirements
2.26      The net area as measured from recent maps is 22,965 feddans.  For
the purpose of this report however a net cultivable area of 22,800 feddans has
been assumed, to divide in 8 farms. Each farm will be cropped along the same
rotation-scheme. Two rotations are proposed, each comprising 1,425 feddans per
farm, or 11,400 feddans in total. The first is based on tomatoes, the second
on potatoes. Alfalfa is included for three years out of twelve in each of the
rotations. After 12 years the land allocated to the potato rotation would be
allocated to the tomato rotation to provide an additional safeguard against
disease spreading.
2.27      The cropping pattern has been based on the following consideration:
(a) that the major aim of the development is the production of
certified vegetable seeds and certified potato seeds;
(b) that within 5 years the Project area would (i) produce 50% of
Egypt's requirements of certified seed of peas, cowpeas, to-
matoes, peppers, eggplants, cucumbers, watermelons, sweet melons,
squash, mallows and beans; (ii) produce about 19,000 tons of
certified seed potatoes to replace a large part of imported
seed;
(c) that tomatoes and potatoes should occupy the land only once
every three years;
(d) that alfalfa and berseem should be included in the rotation
to help build up both the fertility and the structure of the
sandy and the loam-sandy soils of the area; no farm yard
manure will be included for any of the crops, at the request
of plant protection specialists in Egypt;
(e) that prevention of salt intrusion into the irrigation water
will be effective, and that the installation of field drains
will stop groundwater rise. Because of the nature of the soil,
however, yields in the initial 2 years would be relatively low.
2.28      Experience on the Mechanized Farm adjacent to the Project area indi-
cates that a large number of crops are adaptable to the soils and climatic
conditions of the West Nubariya area. Although no controlled experiments
have been conducted, farm records indicate good growth of potatoes, tomatoes,
peas, watermelons and wheat and reasonable growth of cowpeas.



- 30 -
2.29      Seed potatoes and vegetable seeds will be the main crops in the
rotations. Climatic and soil conditions are suitable and yields of six tons
per feddan of potatoes and eight tons of tomatoes are now achieved at the
Mechanized Farm with limited inputs. Watermelons and other cucurbitaceous
crops in general grow well and their marketing is assured.
2.30      All tomato fruits, for seeds will be sold to the Edfina Processing
Company at Alexandria, which Company has undertaken to buy them by contract,
if regular supply during the summer season can be guaranteed. Also at reg-
ular supply Edfina guarantees the exclusive employment of their lines to
NSPC for tomato seed- extraction to avoid contamination with other tomato
varieties. Edfina is also prepared to increase at their own expense, the
number of tomato lines to meet the capacity of fruits to process. NSPC will
wash and dry the seeds by mobile washers and dryers directly after extraction
at the Edfina Company compound or near to this area, to solve the risk of
premature germination of the seeds during summer season. Tomato fruits for
processing only can be sold also to Edfina or to other processing companies as
most of them are short of supply.
2.31      Wheat is included as part of the rotation because of the promising
results obtained at the Mechanized Farm and the equally promising ones obtained
from newly reclaimed fields within the Project area. Yields of 1.3 tons per
feddan have already been obtained and no serious diseases have been noted.
Peas grow well and can be harvested either green or dry. When casual labor
for handpicking green peas becomes a limiting factor, dry peas can be harvested
mechanically. Sales of green peas do not present any particular problem, as
existing processing plants of the Food Industries Organization are running
well below capacity. This Organization has undertaken to buy all the green
peas the Project can produce. Work on broad beans and cowpeas at the Mechanized
Farm has been limited. Both crops are in great demand in Egypt. Project re-
turns at full development are based on an anticipated yield of 0.8 ton per
feddan for broad beans and 0.6 ton per feddan for cowpeas, which can be
achieved with the proposed fertilizer and plant protection inputs. Alfalfa is
included as a green manure crop for improving soil texture and fertility for 3
years of the 12 years total rotation-cycle. During the nine years intervals
berseem will be planted once in each rotation, to insure soil build up. In
the Project it is proposed to sell baled alfalfa hay as the demand for live-
stock fodder is high. Export to neighboring Libya seems also feasible. In
addition three years alfalfa growing gives a fair opportunity for cleaning up
the land of weeds. At full development yields of 6 tons hay/feddan are
anticipated. During 1975 and early 1976 the LDCO which is now responsible for
farming the area will complete the planting of alfalfa on about 11,000 feddans
to help speed up soil improvement. Berseem has to be included as a green
manure crop within both rotaticns, as no farmyard manure would be used. To
allow for timely planting of a second crop berseem would stay in the ground
only until mid March then it is ploughed under. Therefore only one or two cuts
for forage would be made under these circumstances. The average yield of
berseem, at full development, would be about 1 ton hay per cut per feddan.



- 31 -
2.32      Anticipated yields for each of these crops are in Table 8 of the
Project File. The yield projections are made on the assumption that yield
increases will be obtained mainly through better farm management and further
through the gradual improvement in physical and chemical soil conditions. In
order to help build up fertility, the inputs required at full development
will be applied from the first year; also the residues of all crops will be
ploughed in.
Subproject Detailed Features
2.33      Land Development Investments would include works for
(i) Rehabilitation and commpletion of the existing irrigation infra-
structure consisting of the following works (Annex 6 in the
Project File):
(a) repair of concrete lining;
(b) rehabilitation of structures;
(c) completion of lining along about 190 km of tertiary canals; and
(d) progressive modification of regulating structures, involving
the installation of the following components:
- lateral escapes;
- new regulators with long-crest weirs or automatic
gates; and
- new distributors.
(ii) Protection Against Salinization Hazards. To prevent saline water
intrusion into the Nasr Canal, the proposed works are the fol-
lowing:
(a) sealing the existing lining along the stretches where Nasr
Canal is deeply cut in the ground (about 7 km long in total)
by a new strong and watertight reinforced concrete layer
laid over the first layer; and
(b) digging in the canal berms two shallow open drains to inter-
cept and carry off the grounwater seeping above the canal.
(iii) Protection Against Waterlogging would be ensured by:
(a) Control of the deep percolation of irrigation water at field
level which require works permitting the control of water
discharges delivered to the field namely, the repair or
improvements of plot turnouts;



- 32 -
(b.) Field drainage works would be implemented by stages. The
Project includes (i) the deepening of the existing tertiary
drains--those serving the "ochas" at a spacing of 300 m or
600 m; (ii) the installation of tile drains--buried plastic
pipes 1/--at 1.80 m depth, 150 m spacing in 30% of the area,
about 7,000 feddans along the northwest boundary on the Me-
chanized Farm side, (iii) the installation of tile drains
over the remainder of the area with the same spacing and/or
(iv) the doubling of the tile drainage, making up a spacing
of 75 m, in the first 7,000 feddans. Tile drains under (iii)
and (iv) would be carried out in Project years 4 and 5 only
if the monitoring of the water table and the crops growth
have shown such necessity. However, the relevant costs
are included in the Project cost estimate;
(c) Completion and deepening of the existing open drains;
(d) The Main Nubarlya Outfall, a regional drainage channel,
is also necessary to collect the saline return flow and
to discharge it into the sea instead of doing so in the
Nubariya Canal. Without construction of this drain, water-
logging and salinity problems would become so acute that
the NSPC's output would begin to suffer seriously within
five years. Financing of the Main Nubariya Outfall is
thus included in the Project, under a separate subproj-
ect.
2.34      Completion of the General Infrastructure.  To meet the new develop-
ment objectives, in particular to ensure efficient living and working condi-
tions for the personnel involved, the Project includes: asphalting about 23
km of roads, completion of water and power supply lines and distribution, and
establishment of wire and wireless communication systems. The Project will
also provide funds to ensure that the available supply of offices and houses
will be increased to meet the needs of the Project.
2.35      Farm Machinery, Seed Processing Equipment and Vehicles.  The Proj-
ect would provide all necessary farm machinery equipment for developing
23,000 feddans. This would include in particular; 110 tractors, 14 combines,
40 balers, 13 vineseed harvesters and 2 graders. The Project would provide
for seed processing equipment which, among others would include: seed ex-
tracters, washers, dryers, conveyers, moisture testers, laboratory equip-
ments and packing material. NSPC would also be proviled with vehicles in-
cluding 2 forklifts, 14 trucks, 21 four-wheel driver, 13 minibuses, 15 cars
and 115 motorcycles.
1/ Or sulphate resistant cement or clay pipes, if plastic pipes are not
available.



- 33 -
2.36      Training and Technical Assistance.  The Project provides for the
training abroad and on the job of a large number of Seed Production Company
staff. Technical assistance should also be provided for the initial four
years of the Project. It would include (i) 48 man-months of irrigation and
drainage expertise to help design standard water level control and water dis-
tribution structure according to modern irrigation techniques; prepare inter-
national tender documents; and supervise field tests and interpret drainage
data. This expertise would be provided by consultants whose appointment
constitutes a Condition of Effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan; (ii) 48
man-months of a seed production expertise and (iii) 48 man-months of farm
management expertise.  NSPC would, in addition, dispose of 30 months of con-
sulting services in engineering, and in particular crop production and crop
protection fields, that might be used as particular problems arise. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that NSPC will be hiring consultants
for seed production and farm management within 120 days after the Bank Loan
Effectiveness.
B. Seed Certification Agency
2.37      This Agency has to be fully independent from the seed producing and
sales organization on the one hand, and also from the Vegetable Research In-
stitute on the other hand. The Agency would be a Division of the existing
Seed Certification Department of the Ministry of Agriculture which has pre-
sently the responsibility of seed testing and artification. The Department
would continue to provide the Agency with the staff, office facilities and
laboratories necessary to carry out its horticultural seed certification
activities. It is estimated that a staff of about 5 professionals (1 Di-
rector, 2 laboratory officers for vegetable and potato seed and 2 field
officers for vegetable and potato seed) and 5 assistants would be required
during the first five years. The Project would provide about EL 40,000 for
laboratory equipment and transportation facilities.
C. Breeding Unit of the Vegetable Research Institute
2.38      An effective seed production program should be based on the avail-
ability of good seed varieties. Although research work is in progress and
reasonable knowledge and staff capacity exist in the Institute, there is a
need to strengthen the program mainly through the provision of adequate
facilities and equipment both in the field and the laboratories. Breeding
for resistance is a major part of the program, provision of green houses
with isolation rooms and laboratory equipment is therefore required. To
facilitate communication between research and production areas, transporta-
tion facilities would be also provided at a rate of 8 ten-seater buses, one
for each research station. For potato research no additional investments have
been allocated as research is being supported through an annual grant of EL
100,000 from the Ford Foundation for a period of 5 years.  The Project would
provide also for 12 man-months training abroad for local experts and 12 man-
months consulting services in vegetable applied research specially for green
beans, tomatoes, pepper and cantaloupes production under plastic tunnels.



- 34 -
III. DRAINAGE COMPONENT: THE WEST NUBARIYA MAIN OUTFALL
General
2.39      The first program of Land reclamation of the Western Desert lands
started in 1952, i.e. before the construction of the High Dam. This program
was then known as the Mudiriet El Tahrir Project, including two areas both
west of the Nubariya Canal, the first South Tahrir area located at about 50
km from Cairo, the second North Tahrir area at about 50 km from Alexandria.
Investigations have indicated that the water resources available at that
time, with saving on water use that could be made in other areas, would per-
mit reclamation of about 200,000) feddans of Desert lands, by the Nubariya
canal downstream of km 50 (see Map IBRD 12034).
2.40      The construction of the High Aswan Dam much increased the avail-
able water resources. A soil survey indicated that in the North Western
Desert 500,000 feddans of soil are suitable for reclamation through irriga-
tion. Thus the 1952 Reclamation Project has taken a new dimension. Beside
the North Tahrir area others have been irrigated: Nahda, Mariut, Mariut ex-
tension, Thawra, Hidia (Mechanized Farm) covering a total of 152,000 feddans
(64,000 ha). The entire North Western Desert Lands Reclamation Project de-
pends on the supply from the Nubariya Canal, which belongs to the Nile diver-
sion system. The water level in. the canal is about 5 to 6 m above Mediter-
ranean sea level. Since the Desert lands west of the canal rise gradually to
50 m elevation above sea level, all the water for irrigation has to be lifted
by stages by several pumping stations. Over relatively short distances, dif-
ferences in ground level of several meters have to be overcome and some
reaches of the canals connecting the pumping stations are deeply cut into the
ground. Some of these canals are concrete lined.
2.41      The North Western Desert Lands Reclamation Project 1/ will ultimate-
ly serve about 450,000 feddan gross (190,000 ha) including the area to be de-
veloped for vegetable seed production by NSPC, and is implemented by stages.
Areas already irrigated are:
1/   To note that other desert lands are also being reclaimed in the Mudiriet
El Tahrir 70 km further south, along the Nubariya Canal upstream.



- 35 -
Reclamation
Area/Feddan            Period
(i)  North Tahrir                       36,000                1954-59
(ii)  Mariut                             42,000                1962-67
(iii)  Mariut Extension                    17,000              underway
(iv)  Nahda                              22,000 /1             1964-67
(v)  Thawra                             25,000                1964-66
(vi)  Mechanized Farm (Hidia)            10,000                1964-67
(vii)  Nasr Canal - First Part /2                               1968-71
(a)  Gianaklis Farm                 6,000                    -71
(b)  Project Area for              23,000               1970-75
Seed Production
(c)  East Nasr Area                 8,000               1971-75
Subtotal /3                 189,000
/1   Another part of Nahda Sector extends on the right bank of the Nubariya
Canal.
/2   20 km long running from the Nubariya Canal to the Desert Highway, and
including 3 pumping stations.
/3   Acreages are tentative figures only, a mix of net or gross areas.  In
most cases, actual development is not fully completed.
2.42      The next stages would include the construction of the Second Part
of Nasr Canal, about 20 km long up to the pumping station No. 4 and would
irrigate the following areas in feddans:
(i)  Extension of East Nasr Area               10,000          1977
(ii) Extension West of Desert
Highway upto PS4                       32,000           1978
Subtotal                             42,000
Further stages, still under investigation, would include the extension of the
Nasr Canal to a total length of more than 150 km as far west as El Alamein
on the Mediterranean coast, with 1 or 2 more pumping stations to serve a to-
tal gross area of 300,000 1/ feddans including the 79,000 feddan mentioned
above. Therefore, the total reclamation program west of Nubariya Canal would
cover about 450,000 feddans gross tl90,000 ha).
2.43      Sources of Water:  The Nubariya Canal.  The Nubariya Canal is a
large waterway which is a branch of the major canals--Beheira and Khatatba
Canals--diverted from the Delta Barrage on the Nile. The Nubariya Canal was
constructed before the turn of the last century and has been widened several
1/ Specifically known as the West Nubariya Project.



- 36 -
times. Its present capacity at the intake of the Nasr Canal exceeds 250
m3Is. Recently the Nubariya Canal has been fitted with locks and extended to
Alexandria to be used as a navigation canal from Cairo to Alexandria. Three
locks located at km 60 near Gianaklis Road, at km 100 near Nahda Road at the
arrival to Lake Mariut and the last one opening into the sea in Alexandria
harbor can handle 4 barges totaling 2,000 tons. The water level of the
Nubariya Canal at the intake of the Nasr canal, is about 5 to 6 meters above
Mediterranean sea level, and only 3 meters at km 100 (Nahda Road) where the
Nubariya Canal joins Mariut Lake of which level is 2.8 below Mediterranean
sea level.
2.44      Water Quality.  The Nile River water is of very good quality--200-
250 ppm total salts. No information was available on the evolution of the
Nile water quality since the High Dam is in operation, however, these should
be no serious deterioration 1/. The Nubariya Canal water salt content is still
low--400-450 ppm depending on the season--at the intake of the Nasr Canal and
is therefore quite good for irrigation. However, saline seepage into the sup-
ply canals of the New Lands contaminates irrigation water and the Nubariya
Canal itself collects the saline return flow of part of the New Lands and its
salinity increases as it flows downsream (para 2.47).
2.45      Topographical Features.  The New Lands located west of the Nubariya
Canal are higher--elevation 10 to 50 m above Mediterranean sea level-- than
the Nubariya Canal level and they are served by canals and sets of pumping
stations which make up for the .iifferences in ground level. These canals are
the Mariut Canal, the North Tahrir Canal, the Thawra Canal, the Hidia Canal
(Mechanized Farm) and the most Lmportant and most recent, the Nasr Canal (para
2.13).
2.46      Geology.  Four major Eormations dipping to the northeast have been
identified in the subsoil of the New Lands, west of Nubariya, as follows, from
bottom to top:
(i)  impervious fluvio-marLne deposits, at the base;
(ii)  alluvial sand and gravel-about 50 to 100 m thickness--
which is the main aquifer of the region;
(iii)   lagoonal deposits of Lntermingled sand, calcareous loan
and gypsiferous clay;
(iv)  aeolian coarse to fine sand in the top layer.
2.47      Groundwater Level Rise.  In the fifteen years or so since irrigation
was introduced on the New Lands, serious problems have cropped up. Before
irrigation, the water table was about at sea level. This means that in the
western part of the Project area it was 30 to 50 meters below ground surface
1/   The Government with US technical assistance, has set up a program of
investigation in order to )ptimize the Nile water use.



- 37 -
and in the eastern part 6 to 30 meters depending on topography. After irriga-
tion started in 1959, the water table gradually rose. In some areas, like
Mariut, North Tahrir, the Mechanized Farm the ground water level has risen
quite close to the land surface causing harmful waterlogging. The Desert
Institute of the Egyptian Ministry of Land Reclamation has prepared in Februa-
ry 1974 some significant contour maps of the groundwater level; they show up
that two distinct mounds have builtup--one in Mariut and one in the Mechanized
Farm, and are now tending to merge. Before irrigation, the general groundwater
flow was toward the Wadi Natrun depression in the southwest. A reversal of
the flow direction is now observed and part of it is flowing toward the
Nubariya Canal instead of away from it as before. The rise of the water table
and the reversal of the groundwater flow are all the more a problem because
the groundwater is saline. The Nubariya Canal which is the only source of ir-
rigation water is now acting as a drain collecting the saline return flow.
Furthermore, the aquifer deep underflow towards the northeast may also develop
a dangerous situation in the Nile Delta. Comprehensive investigations with UN
assistance have been undertaken to better identify causes and remedies to
these serious problems, on a wide regional basis. Saline water from the
watertable is also seeping into the supply canals of the New Lands where they
are deeply in cut, and tends to spoil the irrigation water. For instance,
the Mechanized Farm Canal water gets saline up to 3,000 ppm during part of
the irrigation season and thus part of the farm is going out of cultiva-
tion.
2.48      This deteriorating situation has caused the Government to take
temporary measures and to design and undertake the construction of an effi-
cient drainage system. The key part of the proposed drainage would be the
Main Nubariya Outfall, a large channel independent of the Nubariya Canal,
which would collect the saline return flow and discharge it by gravity into
the sea. The Government requested Bank financial assistance in the construc-
tion of the Nubariya Outfall in order to speed up its completion. Such an
assistance by the Bank would follow-up the recommendation formulated by the
recent Bank sector mission, to rehabilitate lands already cultivated.
2.49      Main Drainage.  As indicated in para 2.41, about 189,000 feddans--
almost 80,000 ha--are presently irrigated from the Nubariya Canal: total
peak discharge pumped for the New Lands is estimated at 80 m3/s and the return
flow at a rate of 0.33 1/s/ha should be about 26 m3/s. When the New Lands
are fully developed the total area draining in the direction of the Nubariya
Canal would be 280,000 feddans--118,000 ha--involving a return flow of 39 m3/s
tentatively. Thus, at a concentration of 2,000 ppm, the total quantity of
salts diluted in the drainage water would be about 6,700 metric tons per day,
during the peak irrigation season. Presently, a large part of the return
flow is discharged into the Nubariya Canal, another part is seeping back
into the supply canals, and the remainder is collected by an existing drai-
nage channel. This channel was constructed a few years ago, as an emergency
measure to reduce the inflow of saline drainage water into the Nubariya Canal:
it skirts the Nubariya Canal, for about 20 km between the Thawra tributary
drain and the sea lock near Lake Mariut. Then, this channel outflows into the
Mariut Lake. Its depth and capacity are still insufficient and it should be
deepened, as provided for by the proposed Main Nubariya Outfall project,
described below.



- 38 -
The Main Nubariya Outfall
2.50      Since the existing main drainage channel, as above mentioned,
is insufficient and does not intercept or collect all the saline return flow,
the Nubariya Canal is still used as a drainage channel and its water, good
upstream of the Nasr Canal intake, gets more and more saline as it flows
downstream: concentrations of more than 1,000 ppm 1/, unsatisfactory for
irrigation, are already recorded, mostly during the peak irrigation season
when the discharge of fresh water is minimal. The extension of irrigated
areas see para 2.41, or more intensive cultivation would dangerously add to
this critical situation. The Nubariya Outfall has been designed to collect the
drainage flow of an area which would ultimately be 280,000 feddans 2/ and to
take it by gravity into the Mediterranean Sea. It would skirt the Nubariya
Canal 3/ as does the existing main drain already mentioned which would be
deepened and extended upstream up to Gianaklis Road and downstream down to the
sea. Total length of the Outfall would be 67.5 km. The outlet into the
Mediterranean Sea would be located at 15 km west of Alexandria. No pumping
would be required: the full water supply level in the Outfall would be 4.30 m
above sea level at its origin near the Gianaklis Road and 4.10 m at 64.5 km,
at the confluence of the Main Drain 6 which collects the drainage flow of the
proposed 23,000 feddan Seed Farm. At the Nahda Road, next to the Nubariya
Canal sea lock, km 28 of the Outfall, its FSL would be about 1.85 maximum.
Water line slope would vary from 0.0001 to 0.00003 from upstream to downsream,
allowing for a flow velocity of 0.5 to 0.3 m/s depending on discharges. Water
depth would be 2 m maximum at origin and 3.50 m at the sea outlet and bottom
widths respectively, 5 and 18 mi, maximum discharges would be respectively 6
and 61 m3/s. This later figure includes 22 m3/s for an emergency overflow of
the Nubariya Canal into the outfall at the sea lock. This disposition would
reduce the water inflow in the Mariut Lake and thus the discharge to be pumped
out by the El Mex Pumping Station.
2.51      Description of the Proposed Outfall.  The longitudinal profile of
the Outfall has been designed in order to allow for all tributary drains:
North Nasr, Mariut, Thawra, Nour and Drain 6 to discharge into it directly by
gravity. The Outfall would be therefore deeply in cut with a trapezoidal sec-
tion. Most of the Outfall would be excavated in soft ground, however, cohe-
sive enough to prevent caving in: the major quantities would be about 10 Mm3
of excavation in soft ground, 1 Mm3 in limestone rock. The structures to be
constructed along the Outfall would include 19 road bridges, 1 railway bridge,
5 large siphons and 4 smaller ones, 1 overflow spillway and miscellaneous less
important strucures. 4/
1/   1,000 ppm equivalent to one gram per liter.
2/   Including the 23,000 feddar Seed Production Farm.
3/   Minimum and maximum spacing between the outfall and Nubariya Canal would
be 65 and 115 m, respectively, as required by topographical conditions.
4/   At the time of Loan negotiations, three civil work contracts amounting
to EL 4.0 million had been awarded for the excavation of the downstream
7.5 km of the main drain. They represent about 1.8 Mm3 of excavation
in ground, of which about 1.0 Mm3 is in limestock rock. Some of the
works under the first contract in execution since January 1976, for the
2.3 km of the drain from the sea outlet, have been completed (25%).



- 39 -
2.52      Status of Engineering.  The Ministry of Irrigation is responsible
for planning, design, execution through contractors, supervision of construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of this type of major works. The Regional
Directorate of Irrigation, located at Damanhour, started in 1972 the field
surveys and preliminary investigations of the Nubariya Outfall. This preli-
minary design--completed and approved in 1973--is based on 1 : 25,000 scale
contour maps and on a strip topographical survey 200 m wide along the pro-
posed center line: land acquisition maps have been prepared for the lowest 27
km; longitudinal profiles and cross sections have been drawn up as well as the
provisional bill of quantities and cost estimates. An alternative route for
the lower part of the Outfall is being studied with a tunnel across a rocky
ridge. This would reduce the length of the canal, however, it still seems
that the open canal even though longer will cost less and will be easier to
maintain. A drilling contract to study the soil bearing capacity and the see-
page rate of infiltrations has been awarded to Government owned Sad El Aali
Company (High Dam Company) to undertake 25 boreholes of 40 meters each across
the rocky ridge. The investigation is expected to be completed by October
1976. If the layout through the Rocky Ridge proves economical, the Project
Unit would submit to the Bank a complete justification for modification of
the design. The cost estimates for Nubariya Main Outfall as shown in this
report are based on the open drain layout. However, detailed designs will be
made by the Project Unit to arrive at more precise cost estimates required
for international tendering. Provision has been made in the cost estimates
to provide engineering services and equipment for field investigations to the
Project Unit for the purpose. Reconnaissance drillings should be made wher-
ever the Outfall would be away from or much deeper than the Nubariya Canal.
Where the Outfall would skirt the Nubariya Canal, ground conditions may be
similar and drillings may not be necessary. The outlet into the sea would be
designed after laboratory tests to determine waves and current actions likely
to erode or silt up the outlet. It is estimated that about six months would
be required to complete field investigation, supplementary design and prepare
tender documents for international bidding for the first lot of works to be
undertaken up to Km 28. Another six months would be needed to complete the
design and prepare the tender documents for the remaining part of the Drain.
The Damanhour Office of the Ministry of Irrigation which is presently respon-
sible for the overall irrigation and drainage works in the Nubariya area has
undertaken the broad design of the Outfall, and has already awarded 3 civil
work contracts to Egyptian bidders for the first 7.5 Km of the Drain from the
sea outlet. These 3 contracts would not be financed by the Loan proceeds.
Tender documents for the remainder of the Drain constructions, have to be re-
viewed and approved by the Bank before being issued for international bidding.
A Project Unit (para 4.34) has been set up within the Ministry of Irrigation
(Damanhour Office) to complete the design, prepare the tender documents, and
supervise the civil works. The Unit would be assisted in its task by the Ir-
rigation and Drainage consultants that NSPC would be hiring (para 2.36). In-
vestigations concerning the control of waterlogging and salinity on a wide
regional basis are presently underway under a UNDP sponsored project. First
conclusions of these investigations should be arrived at by the end of year
1977, however, the basic necessity for a large collector of the saline return
flow of the New Lands west of Nubariya would not be questioned, neither should



- 40 -
its location nor its essential features. The cost estimates for the construc-
tion of the Drain were based on comparable most recent cost for similar works
proposed under the three contracts recently awarded for the 7.5 km of the
Drain from the sea outlet. To take into account the possibility of any cost
overrun because of uncompleted detailed design 20% of physical contingencies
were added to the cost estimate.
2.53      Schedule of Construction.  The construction works of the Outfall
can be carried in three full years. There are no climatic constraints and
expropriation procedures that would impede the timing of construction. How-
ever, the selected contractor's heavy excavation plant would have to be suf-
ficient to cope with 9.2 million m3 of earthmoving. The list of equipment
to carry out the works is presently estimated to consists of 25 draglines--aver-
age output 20,000 m3 per month--assisted by as many scrapers, bulldozers and
motorgraders. For the transportation of the spoil, about 70 to 100 dumpers
or heavy trucks, assisted by loaders and miscellaneous machinery would also
be necessary. In order to allow for the unforeseen the mission has estimated
a construction period of 3 1/2 years starting mid 76 and ending December 79
according to the following schedule:
Excavation           Construction    Period of
Sectors of Outfall            Quantity   Length    Duration        Construction
Mm3         km       months
Sea outlet to km 7.5 (con- /1
fluence of North Nasr Drain)        1.8         7.5          32         1/76 -  8/78
From km 7.5 to km 28 (overflow
structure of Nubariya Canal
near the sea lock)                  3.9        20.5          30         1/77 -  7/79
From km 28 to km 45.7 (Tahrir
Canal) /2                           2.8        17.7          24         6/77 -  6/79
From km 45.7 to km 67.5
(Gianaklis Road)                    2.5        21.8          24        10/77 - 10/79
11.0       67.5
/1 Under contracts to be completed by August 31, 1978.
/2   This corresponds approximately to the existing main drainage channel
which has to be enlarged and deepened.
IV. HORTICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
A.  SEED POTATO COLD STORES
Background
2.54      Potatoes are a major vegetable crop and a traditional export crop
in Egypt. Just under 100,000 feddans are cultivated annually, mainly in
three Governorates in the Delta Region. There are two crops per annum; the



- 41 -
Summer crop planted in December/February and harvested from March through
June, and the Nili crop which is planted in September/October and harvested
from December through February. Seed for the Summer crop is imported, and
the crop is used for domestic consumption, export and as seed for the Nili
crop. The Nili crop is used mainly for domestic consumption.
2.55       Egypt generally imports 20 to 25 thousand tons of certified seed
potatoes annually for the Summer crop. This amounts to 55 percent of the
Summer crop seed requirements, and 25 percent of total annual potato seed
requirement. Such large imports impose a heavy and rapidly rising exchange
rate burden on Egypt. In 1975 this amounted to EL 5.8 million while in 1974
it amounted to EL 2 million, which was 35 percent of the value of potato
exports for that year. In addition, there are often problems in mobilizing
this foreign exchange when it is required. These seed potatoes are presently
imported at the time of planting and so require no storage. It is now pro-
posed by the Government to reduce seed imports to 5.5 thousand tons by 1980
and to produce the certified Summer crop seed requirements locally from these
imports. This will meet the aim of conserving scarce foreign exchange and
ensuring that seed potatoes of the desired variety will be available in suf-
ficient quantities and when they are required. Since it is technically in-
feasible to produce satisfactory seed potatoes from the Nili crop, it will be
necessary to store the seed from one Summer crop to the next, a period of 6
months. The Government also wishes to increase the output of this important
crop to meet increasing domestic demand and to increase exports. This is to
be accomplished in part by increasing the area cropped but also by improving
the traditional type of mud brick storages (nawalas) where losses in storage
are now extremely high, and where valuable seed for the Nili crop must now be
stored.
Objectives
2.56      The major objective of this component is to increase the volume of
cold storage available for seed potatoes, thus facilitating this section of
the expanded seed potato production program. Technical aid in the form of a
storage research consultant will also be supplied to assist in upgrading the
nawalas.
Detailed Features
2.57      The PGC whose members are 392 local cooperatives, is one of the 9
specific commodity cooperatives.  It is responsible for meeting the seed
potato requirements of 33,220 producers cropping about 100,000 feddans annual-
ly.  They also provide storage, grading and marketing services for these
producers.  PGC owns 6 cold stores with a total capacity of 12,000 tons, and
one 6,000 ton store under construction. Private sector cold storage for seed
potatoes totals 10,600 tons.
2.58      Quantification of the needed extra storage is based on the Govern-
ment policy to (a) stabilize Summer crop production on 45,000 feddans and in-
crease Nili crop by 1980 to 65,000 feddans; (b) gradua.ly reduce imports of
potato seed from the present 20-25 thousand tons to the 5.4 thousand tons that
would be needed to produce the certified seed requirements domestically; and,



- 42 -
(c) reduce losses and damage that occur in nawalas. While the private farmers
will continue to grow seed on contract, the proposed NSPC will furnish 60
percent of the additional seed required to replace the imported seed. Imports
of seed potatoes will be reduced to basic seed stock from which certified or
improved seed for commercial crops will be obtained.
2.59      Current projections for 1980 call for 33,000 tons of locally im-
proved seed for Summer crop planting which would need cold storage. In addi-
tion, the Government would like to store 9,000 tons for Nili crop planting,
making a total of 42,000 tons of cold storage capacity in the public sector.
Existing and in-progress capacity is 18,000 tons in seven locations, leaving
24,000 tons of additional cold storage being needed by 1980. This component
will assist in financing the construction and equipping for the PGC of 4 potato
cold stores of 6,000 tons capacity each. These stores will be constructed at
a rate of one every year and will be located in potato growing areas of the
Delta region, specifically near the towns of Damanhour, Quailubiya and Giza,
and near NSPC farm in West Nubariya. Each store will comprise a fenced 6-
feddan site with buildings and equipment, as described in Annex 10 in the
Project File. The single storey design of these cold stores, together with the
mechanized handling system, is a radical departure from the design and opera-
tion of existing cold stores owned by the PGC, including the one under con-
struction. The existing stores are all 3-storey buildings with stairways as
the only connection between floors. Each floor contains a single room with a
long lobby outside. The stores are loaded manually, and potatoes are gene-
rally contained in weak palm crates which are prone to breakage. The general
result is one of poor storage practice where stores are overloaded, and loose
potatoes from broken crates lie in the corridors and side aisles. The crates
are densely packed with no space between the layers or between the bottom
layer and the floor, thus restricting cold air circulation and promoting spoil-
age. The single storey stores have significantly lower construction costs.
The increased land requirements are offset by improved yard layout so that a
net saving in cost is involved. In addition, the single story system per-
mits mechanical handling without costly elevators. The specially designed
pallet boxes promote orderly stcring and improved air flow, thus reducing
spoilage. They also permit easy identification and retrieval.
2.60      The PGC derives revenue from commissions on sale of imported seed,
the sale of locally produced certified seed, and charges to members for
storage and grading of potatoes. The production of certified seed is done by
selected private farmers on contract to the Cooperative. They are supplied
with best quality imported seed and are subject to the technical supervision
of the staff of the Vegetable Research Institute in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and of the Potato Growers Cooperative. Contracts for seed production
covered 700 feddans in 1971 and rose to over 2,500 in 1974. These contracts
call for the delivery of four to five tons per feddan of potatoes of 28-65 mm
diameter. In practice, farmers have been delivering three tons only to the
Cooperative. Part of the remainder which is suitable for seed they sell to
other farmers at higher prices than the Cooperative's. Due to the highly
regarded quality control aspect of the PGC seed production program, the
incentive to contract to produce seed for this program is high since yields
are often up to 10 tons per feddan, leaving producers up to 7 tons per feddan
for sale in the private market.



- 43 -
2.61      Nawala storages.  These are small privately owned potato stores un-
refrigerated constructed from mud, bricks and roofed with leafs or straw.
Total storage capacity of these stores is estimated to be about 300,000 tons.
Financing is included for equipment and materials to facilitate the work of
the nawala consultant to be employed by PGC in improving nawala storages.
While a number of uses could be made of these research funds, a major part of
it would be used to upgrade about 15 small nawala storages in outlying areas
in Behera, Menufiya and Gharbiya Governorates as demonstration units to show a
large number of interested people what can be done to improve this type of
seed potato storage. Because of scarcity of private capital, this research
should concentrate on low cost techniques such as home-made ducting and
electric fans to force air through the ducts. There are a number of preser-
vatives and sprout inhibiting chemicals and treatments which should be ex-
perimented with in nawala storages. In addition, methods and materials for
partial insulation need to be identified as well as methods, and equipment for
ventilating and dehumidifying them. The handling techniques into storages and
during the storage period need to be optimized. Due to the uniqueness of the
problem, it is difficult to identify the precise qualifications for this
consultant. Ideally, he should be an agricultural engineer with experience in
potato handling and storage (not necessarily confined to storage for seed).
Potatoes for chipping, for instance, have peculiar storage requirements
offering similar challenges in proper handling and in quality control. It
would be preferable if some of the proposed consultant's experience has been
in Egypt or other countries with similar climatic conditions and storage
problems. Most of the consultant's time will be spent out in the field. He
should be responsible also for determining the choice of items to be devoted
to nawala storage research, particularly after the first year. A total of 8
months has been budgeted for the nawala consultant (3 months in year 1, 2
months in year 2, and one month each in years 3, 4 and 5).
Markets and Prices
2.62      While the volume of seed potato imports has remained relatively
constant, the price of these has risen dramatically. The c.i.f. price for
King Edward, the most popular variety, has gone from El 40/ton in 1970 to
EL 200/ton in 1975. Other varieties have shown similar price trends. This
is due to a decline in the production of seed potatoes in Western Europe due
to a decline in the per capita consumption of potatoes in Western European
countries. Despite this decline in European per capita consumption, the out-
look for Egyptian potato exports is good. Two factors ensure this: first
the fact that Egyptian exports are off-season exports reaching the European
markets in early spring, at a time when there is no domestic production and
end of season stocks are declining; in addition, being "new" potatoes they
are distinctly different from ex-store potatoes and as such command a premium.
Secondly, the structure of demand for potatoes is changing. Once regarded
as a staple food with low income and price elasticity, they now appear to
have moved to the role of a vegetable so that their alternative uses have
expanded. This appears to have increased their price elasticity of demand,
which will have the effect of reducing future price fluctuations and so
enhancing the outlook for more stable export earnings. Over 70% of Egyptian
potato exports are to the UK and prices received in this market have been
rising steadily from EL 42/ton in 1970 to EL 72/ton f.o.b. in 1974.



- 44 -
2.63      In the domestic market the demand for potatoes continues to rise.
Despite the Government's efforts to control prices, consumer prices have
risen rapidly from 3.8 piastres/kilo in 1970 to 6.0 piastres/kilo in 1974,
and the 1975 price is likely to average close to 7.0 piastres/kilo. Govern-
ment determined producer prices also increased during this period from an
average of EL 23.1/ton in 1970 to EL 36.02/ton (or 2.3 piastres/kilo to 3.6
piastres/kilo). The substantial price margin of 65% for a product which
requires no processing is the reason why many Egyptian farmers have reduced
their deliveries to the public sector in favor of marketing directly in local
markets. Recently, this has caused problems to the public sector export com-
panies in reaching their assigned export market targets. However, the
Egyptian Authorities believe that planned production increases will overcome
the current tightness in supplies.
B. CITRUS PACKING AND MARKETING
Background       -
2.64      In Egypt citrus and oranges are virtually synonymous illustrating
the dominant position of oranges. This dominance is not limited to citrus
but extends throughout the fruit subsector.  Oranges amount to 40% by weight
of all fruit production and occtupy 132,300 feddans which equals 50% of all
orchards which in turn account for almost 2% of arable land. In 1973,
exports of oranges earned EL 15.8 million, this comprised 94% of all fruit
export earnings and 43% of all fruit and vegetable export earnings. In ad-
dition to being an important cash crop for farmers and a valuable contributor
to foreign exchange earnings, harvesting and packing of the orange crop is a
significant source of seasonal employment in rural areas. At present, net
output of oranges is about 900,000 tons and exports are about 200,000 tons,
by 1981 production and exports are expected to reach 1,050,000 tons and
360,000 tons respectively. Currently, available export processing capacity
by 1976 is for a maximum of 235,000 tons so that over 100,000 tons of addi-
tional processing capacity will be required by 1981.
Objectives
2.65      The objective of this component is to improve the export capability
of the Egyptian citrus industry by assisting in financing, (i) the construc-
tion and equipment of additional citrus export, packing and storage plants,
(ii) the development of citrus transportation facilities, (iii) upgrading
ancilliary equipment in existing packing plants, and (iv) equipment for one
small centrally located laboratory for citrus quality control.
Detailed Features
2.66      The El Wadi Company, a public sector company organized under the
Ministry of Commerce, is responsible for the processing and marketing of all
citrus exported from Egypt. The: Company owns the nine existing citrus pack-
ing plants in Egypt which have EL maximum seasonal output capacity of 92',00u
tons. Two more plants are under construction and these will increase the



- 45 -
output capacity to 280,000 tons by the end of 1976. This capacity assumes
that the plants work for 24 hours per day which many of them do at present.
The company wishes to reduce this to not more than 20 hours per day to permit
time for regular-maintenance thus reducing delays through breakdowns. This
reduces effective plant capacity to 235,000 tons leaving an additional capa-
city requirement of 125,000 tons. The El Wadi Company now exports oranges
through the Port of Alexandria. Ship loads of oranges are stored in its
Alexandria yards about 2 kilometres from the docks. These oranges are located
in open sided sheds to protect them from the sun. Due to the congestion and
high port charges in Alexandria, it is now proposed to resume export opera-
tions from Port Said. To permit this, storage sheds similar to those in
Alexandria must be constructed.
2.67      This component proposes to assist in financing the construction and
equipping of 4 citrus packing plants, of 25,000 tons capacity each, at a rate
of 1 every 15 months beginning in 1976. The 25,000 tons shortfall in capacity
is designed to protect against over capacity in case the export supply projec-
tions are overly optimistic. However, the plants will be ready to expand to
a capacity of 35,000 tons each, if needed. The component will also assist
financing construction of an open sided shed in Port Said. It will have a
capacity of 3,000 tons of oranges in boxes and cartons and will facilitate
staging of ship loads of oranges at this port. Oranges are transported from
the packing plants to Alexandria by truck. At present, El Wadi hires all of
its transport requirements on an ad hoc basis. As a result of increasing
difficulties in acquiring transportation when needed and faced with increasing
transport requirements, the Company is faced with the necessity of at least
partially supplying its own truck transport requirements. The component will
therefore assist El Wadi purchase 30 truck tractors and 60 trailers. At
Project completion, about one third of El Wadi's requirements will be supplied.
It is gauged that the Company's year round transport requirements are such
that these vehicles will be fully employed throughout the remainder of the
year. The quality of Egyptian oranges suffers greatly from too much phy-
sical handling. Each container is handled about six times between the packing
plant and the ship. This results in a high rate of damage to the fruit
requiring a significant repacking operation in Alexandria. To reduce this
damage, it is proposed to move to a more mechanized system of handling in-
volving pallets and forklift trucks. These will automatically be incorporated
into the equipment of the plants to be constructed, but the component will
also assist in financing their incorporation into the existing plants which
are presently without them. Finally in a continuing effort to improve fruit
quality, the component will assist in financing the equipment for a small
laboratory to be housed in El Wadi's existing facilities and used for quality
ccntrol purposes.
Markets and Prices
2.68      In the past Egypt has directed about 75% of its orange exports
to Clearing Agreement countries (Eastern Europe and the USSR) as part of
bilateral trade agreements. The remaining 25% was divided between Western
Europe, 20% and the Middle East and Far East (Singapore), 5%. Exports to
Eastern Europe and the USSR have flourished under bilateral trade agreements
and are financially very favorable for El Wadi by comparison with those of



- 46 -
Western Europe. El Wadi is paid in Egyptian currency for these exports and
the prices-received are 10% higher than in Western Europe. Prices received in
the Middle East and Singapore are even more favorable being nearly 40% above
those received in Western Europe. From a country point of view, trade with
Eastern Europe and the USSR was less attractive than with the oher two markets
as payment was nonconvertible currency and the goods which Egypt accepts in
return from those countries, particularly fertilizer, are priced well above
their international price level. As a result, the El Wadi Company is now
committed to diverting orange exports away from this area to the extent that
the overall market permits. However since this market accepts the lower grade
of export oranges in a large volume, it is likely to remain an important
outlet in the forseeable future. Also renegotiation of these trade agreements
has now resulted in payment in convertible currency by two Eastern European
countries and ongoing negotiations with the rest are expected to bring about
similar arrangements within about 18 months.
2.69      Western Europe is the world's largest import market for oranges.
The overall outlook for this market in the medium-term is for a supply demand
imbalance, causing a 3% decline in the average market price in constant terms
between 1976 and 1980, after which the price is expected to stabilize. Be-
cause it does not take seasonality into account, this fails to reflect the
true situation facing Egypt. For Egypt the seasonal price peaks in the
October-December quarter as the early season oranges enter the market. While
the general price level is seen as declining in real terms, the peak price
does not appear to follow this trend, consequently, reducing the possible
decline in Egyptian export earnings in this market. Egypt is climatically
the most favored country in the region for the production of early oranges
and avails of this advantage by shipping much of its exports at this time.
In an effort to increase these early shipments, the El Wadi Company is instal-
ling degreening facilities to hasten to ripening and so further increase its
earnings.
2.70      Exports are in two grades, the highest one for the exchangeable
currency markets. This highest grade is considered now to be as good as any
imported into Western Europe. But, the variation in quality within shipments
has caused them to be discounted in price. El Wadi has now embarked on a
serious program to remedy this by improved carton packaging and even more
selective grading. This year, it has established a small packinghouse in
Alexandria expecially, for repacking any damaged containers prior to shipping.
It has also entered into a contract with a US consulting firm, whose members
have much experience in this field, to assist it in all phases of its opera-
tion but with particular emphasis on improving the quality, packaging and
marketing of the oranges. This improvement in quality can only improve the
prices received by El Wadi, particularly, in the highly competitive and
quality conscious Western European market. A recently negotiated furher EEC
import tariff reduction of 20% can only assist El Wadi by improving its
competitive position. Finally, in terms of EEC market shares, Egypt's orange
exports are quite small, less than 1%, so that any alteration in the volume of
their exports to this market will have a negligible effect on the market
price. Egypt's newest and most lucrative export markets for oranges are
in the Middle East and Singapore, and Egypt's aim is to rapidly increase
exports to these markets both oy diversion and expansion. Sales to these



- 47 -
markets increased by almost 300% from 1973/74 to 1974/75, and from 6 to 20%
of Egypt's orange exports at a price of US$275 per ton compared to 1974/75
price of US$210 per ton. This will reduce exports to Western Europe to about
18,000 tons or 7 1/2% of exports, while the remainder 60%, will go to Eastern
Europe and to USSR. This is a substantial alteration from the past pattern
of 5% to the Middle East, 20% to Western Europe and 75% to Eastern Europe
and the USSR. This trend is expected to continue.
2.71      The El Wadi Company's export market system is well organized.  It
has a distinct export marketing department in charge of market analysis and
development and maintains offices for this purpose in Rotterdam and Singapore.
These act in general as extension agents for the head office export marketing
department and are responsible for customer relations distribution and ad-
vertising and quality conrol in their regional markets. They also implement
regional market investigation and development activities under the general
direction of the Cairo office. These efforts are expected to be strengthened
substantially by their recent association with a US consulting firm; and also
generally coordinated with the Company's overall effort in product improvement
thus, enhancing the competitive position of Egypt's citrus exports.
C. FRESH VEGETABLE PACKING AND MARKETING
Background
2.72      Vegetable production in Egypt is an important activity on private
sector farms. It provides food for direct consumption for the farm family as
well as being a valuable cash crop. While generally grown as the winter crop
rotation dominated by traditional field crops, because of its superior finan-
cial returns it has now become the dominant crop in areas where markets are
readily available, such as those close to cities and large towns. The produc-
tion of traditional Egyptian export vegetables, potatoes, onions and garlic
are regulated by the Government and tend to be produced mainly in areas with
particularly suitable climatic and soil conditions. The total area cropped by
vegetables has increased steadily from 484,000 feddans in 1960 to 800,000
feddans in 1974 and the marketed portion accounts for 12% of the value of all
agricultural production. Export earnings are about EL 20 million. The bulk
of this (EL 15 million) is from potatoes, garlic and onions while tomatoes,
fresh haricot (snap) beans, green peppers and artichokes constitute much of
the remainder. Developments now underway, particularly the seed component of
the project, point to further increases in production and exports, leading to
the need for investment in export processing, packaging and transportation.
While production has increased, yields have not. This has resulted from the
insufficiency and the poor quality of inputs. The lack of extension agents,
low quality seed and inadequate fertilizer use due to lack of access to
seasonal credit have effectively combined to restrict increases in yields.



- 48 -
The breaking of export production contracts by farmers in favor of selling on
the domestic market is common in the case of tomatoes, particularly in March.
Because of increasing domestic demand exports have stagnated despite
production increases. An actual decline has occurred in the case of tomatoes
in 1974. This seems to be a temporary phenomenon. The Government has how-
ever begun to remedy the situation, in view of the importance of off season
vegetable exports as a foreign exchange earner. The Government is in the
process of strengthening the horticultural extension system (partly with the
aid of the first component of the project), increase vegetable production on
large state farms in the reclaimed lands, and adopt a more liberal price
policy for contract vegetable production for export, permitting the public
sector to compete more favorably with the domestic market for available
supplies. In the medium run the Government, (with also the aid of the first
component of this project) will have developed domestic production of high
yielding vegetable seed making adequate supplies available to all growers,
many of whom can now only obtain very inferior domestically produced seed.
Together with the improved input package (seed, fertilizer, training and
technical advice) these efforts will enable the producers to meet both do-
mestic and export demands.  The improved seed alone is expected to increase
tomato yields by 50%.
2.73     About 30% of fresh vegetable exports are in the hands of two public
sector concerns, the Union of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
(UPEHC) and the Nile Company. While many private firms are listed as ex-
porters a relatively small number are responsible for about 70% of Egypt's
fresh vegetable exports. Their supply sources are deliberately concentrated
in the hands of a few large farmers to simplify supply management. Because of
accusations of profiteering they maintain a low profile. This together with
problems of lack of access to working capital and the unreliability of many
growers leaves them without the wish or ability to expand their export activi-
ties. Consequently the task of marketing the incremental production of vege-
tables for export is left to UPEHC and the Nile Company.
Objectives
2.74      This component will assist in financing the construction and equip-
ping of plants for grading, sorting, packing and storing tomatoes, green
beans, green peppers, potatoes and onions. It will also assist in financing
the development of a small transportation system for a vegetable exporting
concern. In doing so it will directly aid the Government's policy of in-
creasing foreign exchange earnings from increased fresh vegetable exports
at little or no opportunity cost.
Detailed Features
2.75      UPEHC was founded uncder the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture
in 1972 as a result of pressure from producers dissatisfied with the prevail-
ing contract terms and the pooI- performance of other export firms. This was
the first of the Government's steps to redevelop the fresh vegetable export
industry. Its management has discovered that there is substantial potential



- 49 -
among its members for expanded production for export of vegetables. Because
of the cooperative ownership, the members do commit themselves to their con-
tracts knowing that profits will be returned to them. UPEHC supplies high
quality (imported) seed and fertilizers to its members on a partial credit
basis and provides technical assistance and training to members in cooperation
with the Government Extension Service. The technical input of UPEHC is both
of a high calibre and dedicated. It also acts as a strict supervision service
and this continuous contact helps to limit the number of broken contracts.
This type of contract has brought in many applications for membership and has
evidenced a potential for increased export production of vegetables, in areas
which are not restricted to specific crop rotations, in areas which do not
have ready access to urban markets and by farmers who wish to expand produc-
tion of vegetables within the limits of assigned crop rotations. Ismailia
Governorate is a very good example. Without an urban market nearby and where
production was totally disrupted by war, UPEHC contracted tomato production
is now making an important contribution to the redevelopment of the area.
Ismailia is now beginning to contribute substantially to the renewed vegetable
export effort and being a frost free area it is able to meet the export demand
for very early winter vegetables.
2.76      To date, UPEHC has deliberately restricted its activities because,
in addition to a severe lack of capital, it has been exploring and developing
export markets. It now feels that it is ready to expand and requires invest-
ment financing to permit expansion. This component will assist UPEHC in fi-
nancing the construction and equipping of 4 tomato packing plants, 4 green
bean/pepper packing plants. The construction of a central store in Cairo, a
small cold store (250 tons) at Cairo Airport and a small airconditioned store
(250 tons) in Alexandria are also included to facilitate export shipments by
air and sea. It will also assist in financing the purchase of a small trans-
portation fleet for transport from the field to the packing plant and from
there to the port. Vehicles for personnel transportation are also included.
Details of the physical investment are contained in Annex 12 of the Project
File.
2.77      The Nile Company, has mainly exported traditional vegetables such
as potatoes and onions, as well as rice, groundnuts and medicinal herbs. It
too has found a potential for increased vegetable production among its growers
similar to that of UPEHC, particularly in the light of the more liberal grower
contract price policy which the Government now permits it and provided the
required inputs, technical assistance and training are supplied. With the
provision of this package, the Company anticipates an upsurge in their
throughput of green beans, tomatoes and green peppers. As the country's
major exporter of potatoes, the Nile Company also anticipates an increase in
its export volume as a result of the Government's plan for increasing produc-
tion and exports of potatoes under the project and so requires enlarged
capacity to handle the increase. Some storage is also required to facilitate
staging of export shipments by air and sea.  The Com,any's onion packing plant
is antiquated and involves much manual labor resulting in too high handling



- 50 -
damages to the crops. While the available volume of onions for export dec-
lined due to disease in the traditional onion growing area (Upper Egypt), it
is now recovering due to the development of varieties suitable for other
areas of the country. As a result, the Company needs to replace and upgrade
its onion packing equipment. This component will assist the Nile Company in
financing the construction and equipping of 3 tomato packing plants and 1
green bean/pepper packing plant and in upgrading and expanding. One potato
packing plant and 1 onion packing plant. Financial assistance for the con-
struction and equipping of a 50 ton cold store in Cairo airport and a 3,000
ton airconditioned store in Alexandria to facilitate air shipments of toma-
toes, green beans and sea shipments of potatoes.
2.78      The component contributes indirectly to increasing output by sup-
plying long term capital to UPEHC and Nile Company thus increasing the amount
of short and medium-term capital they can make available to their producers
from their own resources. This is very important when reviewed in the light
of the severe shortage of credit available to vegetable producers. Vegetable
production fits well into the traditional crop rotations and rotations are
technically necessary. Also vegetables are commonplace in the domestic diet
so that in the absence of domestic production they would be imported. As a
high value product both domestically and internationally 1/ vegetables have a
negative opportunity cost.
Markets and Prices
2.79      Projected incremental exports of fresh vegetables (excluding pota-
toes and onions) by these two companies between 1975/76 and 1980/81 will total
8,500 tons. These are mainly tomatoes and green beans, which will be marketed
in Western Europe. A detailed investigation of this market by FAO conserva-
tively estimated that Egypt could expect to market remuneratively 10,000 tons
of fresh vegetables in the Western European market by 1980/81, consequently
there appears to be no marketing problem facing this component. The component
is expected to increase the quality of the exports by improving the grading
systems, reducing the variability in quality of shipments and reducing the in-
transit damage through improved packaging thus enhancing the competitive po-
sition of the vegetables.
2.80      Exports have generally been in f.o.b terms and prices have been in-
creasing steadily. In 1974, the average f.o.b price for tomatoes and green
beans was EL 172 per ton and El, 150 per ton for green peppers. Both UPEHC
and Nile Company officials estimate that in 1975 prices are expected to
increase by 15%. Also since both UPEHC and the Nile Company are altering
their sales system from an fob basis to one of selling on consignment or by
1/   On the international market 1 ton of tomato is equivalent in price to
2.5 tons of wheat. In Egypt tomatoes grown on trellises yield 25-30
tons per feddan (35-40% exportable) and bush tomatoes yield 10-12 tons
per feddan (15% exportable); wheat yields 1.5 tons per feddan.



- 51 -
direct delivery, they expect to capture more of the marketing margin and in-
crease their returns. It also permits follow through of the product to the
point of marketing allowing control over quality and final sale price, thus
encouraging improved marketing tactics and better prices. This is expected
to be paid back to the producer to ensure adequate production for export.
V. AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT COMPONENT
A. GENERAL AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
2.81     The Project would provide a general credit allocation for financing
development of agroindustries in the horticultural subsector by private, co-
operative and public sector entrepreneurs. This credit allocation, which
would be disbursed over a 5 year period, would be onlent by Bank Misr. It
would help develop processing, packaging and handling facilities of a subsector
which has long been severely constrained by lack of capital, especially for-
eign exchange. As a result not only has expansion been effectively constrained
but also the subsector has been unable to modernize and re-equip itself. The
lending under this component would contribute to achievement of the Govern-
ment's objective of renewal, replacement and utilization of productive facili-
ties in agroindustries. The credit allocation would also provide necessary
capital funds and technical assistance to the processing and marketing in-
stitutions of horticultural crops in Egypt, in line with the stated agricul-
tural development objective of the Government.  The allocation will help meet
the demand for development credit arising out of increase in the production
of the horticultural subsector by at least 10% over the present level through
availability of improved seeds, as expected under the Project.
2.82     The agroindustries credit allocation is expected to help mostly the
many small private entrepreneurs and specialized cooperative societies now
engaged in handling of fruits and vegetables in the domestic market, to enter
the export market. They are estimated to be handling about 70% of total
horticultural output in Egypt. The recent Agriculture Sector Survey report
by the Bank indicates that the Land Reform Cooperative Organization is plan-
ning several agroindustries projects for processing of vegetables in the
small farm cooperative sector. Several private entrepreneurs have shown
interest in investing in modernization, expansion and setting up agroindus-
tries in horticultural subsector.  These potential investors have suffered
in the past the most from the lack of credit facilities. In view of the
average size of investments in the agroindustrial subsector it is expected
that about 10 to 15 loans could be made over 5 years, from the allocation
of funds under the Project.  These loans would finance cold storages, refri-
gerated warehouses, grading, sorting and packing stations, transportation
facilities and other miscellaneous processing facilities for fruit and vege-
tables. These facilities would be similar to those proposed for PGC, El-Wadi
Compagny, Nile Compagny and UPEHC. The technical features of these facili-
ties were evaluated by the Appraisal Mission, and their financial viability
was assessed and presented in chapter 6 below. This agroindustries credit
allocation is regarded as a start in the development of a more comprehensive
program for modernization of the horticultural subsector that Government in-
tends to achieve in the long run.



- 52 -
B. BANK MISR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
2.83     Funds will be providei to Bank Misr for training of its staff and
hiring consultancy services for 12 man-months. The technical assistance
will help set up an Agricultural Development Lending Unit within Bank Misr.
The development banking capabiLity thus developed would equip Bank Misr to
carry out its role in the Project. The technical assistance will have the
twofold objective of training Bank Misr staff in development banking tech-
niques and assisting the Planning and Research Department of Bank Misr in
preparing an Agricultural Credit Project for future consideration by IBRD.



- 53 -
CHAPTER 3 - THE PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
I.  THE PROJECT COST
3.01      Total Project Cost is estimated at EL 63.8 million (US$108.0 mil-
lion equivalent), of which 46% or EL 29.5 million (US$50.0 million) would be
foreign exchange. The Project Cost estimate is summarized below:



-54-
PROJECT COST
Local  F     n4Total        Local  Foreign  Total
-------E'OOO --------       -------US$'000-------
A. Vegetable Seed Production
1. Nubariya Seed Prod-
uction Co.
(a) Irrigation,Drainage &
Infrastructure Works/l    4,361   2,348   6,709         7,392   3,979  11,371
(b) Equipment & Farm
Machinery                     477   1,906   2,383          808   3,231   4,039
(c) Vehicles                        85      338      423        144     573      717
(d) Buildings & housing          1,191      397   1,588      2,019      673   2,692
(e) Technical Assistance &
Fellowships                   157      627      784       266   1,063   1,329
2.  Seed Certification Agency           7      27       34         12       46       58
3. Vegetable Research Instit.
(a) Equipment                       26      105      131         44     178      222
(b) Technical Assistance &
Training                        6       25       31        11       42       53
B. Nubariya Drainage Works
1.  Nubariya Main Outfall          9,464   4,826  14,290    16,090   8,204  24,294
2.  Sealing of Nasr Canal             585     315      900        991      534   1,525
C. Agro-industries Component
1.Potato Growers' Cooperative
(a) Cold Stores                    1,372   1,882   3,254        2,325   3,190   5,515
(b) Technical Assistance                3      12       15          5      20       25
2.El-Wadi Export Company
(a) Packing Plants                 1,080   1,460   2,540       1,831   2,475   4,306
(b) Equipment for Existing
Plants                          82      327      409       139      554      693
(c) Vehicles                         168      672      840        285   1,139   1,424
3. Nile Company
(a) Packing Plants                   143      209      352        242      354     596
(b) Cold Stores & Refrigerated
Warehouse                        32       45       77         54      76      130
4.Union of Producers and Exporters
of Horticultural Crops
(a) Packing Plants                   218      144      362        369      244     613
(b) Cold Stores                       104      81      185        176      137      313
(c) Vehicles                           31     123      154         53      209     262
5.General Agro-Industries Credit  4,500   5,500  10,000          7,627   9,322  16,949
D. Bank Misr - Technical Assist-
ance and Training                     8      35       43         14       59       73
Total                     24,100  21,404  45,504    40,897  36,302  77,199
E. Physical Contingencies             2,025   1,749   3,774       3,383   2,940   6,323
F. Price Contingencies                8,138   6,347  14,485    13,793  10,758  24,551
Grand Total               34,263  29,500  63,763    58,073  50,000 108,073
/1  Egyptian pound equivalent of foreign costs determined by converting L1 -L O. 3



- 55 -
3.02     Cost estimates are based on December 1975 costs.  The parallel
market rate for.foreign exchange 1/ of US$1 = EL .59 was used to convert
foreign exchange costs into local currency equivalence. An average 15%
physical contingency was applied for civil works and an estimated 29% price
contingency has been included in the Project cost to meet an expected 8%
annual inflation on foreign and local costs of the equipment and consultant
services and an expected 12% annual inflation in foreign and local costs of
the civil works.
II. THE PROJECT FINANCING
3.03     The financing plan for the Project is shown below:
1/   In September 1973 the Government of Egypt created a parallel foreign
exchange market where a premium of 50% for buying and 55% for selling
free currencies is paid over the prevailing "official" rate of
US$1 = EL .35. The parallel market rate has been lately revised to
US$1 = EL .64. This would not have any effect on the foreign exchange
cost of the Project, but would increase the local exchange equivalent
of the Project cost by 4%.



Project Financing
Sub-                                       Sub-
borr-             Bank                     borr-              Bank
owers   Govt.    Misr    IBRD   Total   owers   Govt.    Misr    IBRD   Total
                                -----               'CJ---------------   ---------------US$'0---------------
A. Vegetable Seed Production                                                            /1
1.  Nubariya Seed Production Co. 4,000/1    -    4,507   8,235   16,742  6,780'-            -   7,639  13,958  28,377
2.  Seed CeiLif'icaLion Agency        -         8      -         31        39    -         13      -         53       66
3.  Veg. Research Institute           -        39      -        157       196    -         66      -        266      332
B. Nubariya Drainage Works
1.  NUharivA Mgin nutf11.3                 16001       -      8,616   24,617    -    27,121        -    14,603  41,724
.  Sea iat of iiasr Calnal            -       965      _        517    1,482    -       1,635      -        876   2,5l1
C. Agro-indus ries Component                                                                                                      \jI
l.Potato Growers' Cooperative           858     -        967   2,464    4,289  1,454        -      1,639   4,176   7,269
2.E1 Wadi Export Co.                  1,004     -        780   3,237    5,021  1,702        -      1,322   5,486   8,510
3.Nile Company                           98     -        102      290       490    166      -        173      492      831
4.Union of Producers and
Exporters of Horticul-                   /1                                         J1
tural Crops                          210     -        214      414      838    356       -        363      702   1,421
5-General Agro-Industries
Credit                            2,250      -      2,250   5,500   10,000  3,814        -      3,813   9,322  16,949
D. Bank Misr - Technical
Assistance and Training              -       _         10       39        49    -        _         17       66       83
Total                              8,420  17013   8830  29,500   63,763 14,272  28,835  14,966  50,000 108,073
Pe-rcent of Total                                                               13       27       14       46       100
/1 To be contributed by the Government.



- 57 -
3.04      The Bank loan would be for an amount of US$50.0 million (100% of the
foreign exchange cost). The Government would be the borrower and would bear
the exchange risk. The Bank loan would be for 25 years including 7 years of
grace, at the Bank Third Window interest rate. Government would (Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Irrigation) use US$15.8 million of the loan
proceeds destined to finance Seed Certification Agency and Vegetable Research
Institute investments on the one hand, and Nubariya Main Outfall and sealing
of the Nasr Canal on the other hand. Government would onlend to Bank Misr
about US$34.2 million of Bank loan proceeds at an interest rate of 8.5% per
annum and for a period of 15 years including 5 years of grace. Bank Misr
would in turn lend these funds to NSPC, PGC, El Wadi Export Company, Nile
Company, the UPEHC and to any other agroindustrial investors to finance their
medium- and long-term investments for fruit and vegetable development.
Detailed on-lending procedures and auditing for such financing are in Chapter
4. About US$66,000 would be used by Bank Misr to finance the technical
assistance and the training program to develop a Agricultural Development
Banking Unit to implement the medium- and long-term lending program in the
agriculture sector.
3.05      In addition to Bank funds, Government would contribute from own
resources EL 4.0 million (US$6.8 million) as equity contribution to NSPC,
EL 17 million (US$28.8 million) to finance investments made by the Seed
Certification Agency, the Vegetable Research Institute, construction of West
Nubariya Main Outfall and sealing of the Nasr Canal and EL 0.2 million (US$0.4
million) as equity contribution to UPHEC.
3.06      Bank Misr would contribute from its own funds EL 8.8 million (US$14.9
million) representing 23% of the investments financed under its lending pro-
gram to agro-industries, which in turn would contribute as down payment EL 4.21
million (US$7.2 million) representing 21% of their total investment costs.



- 58 -
CHAPTER 4 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
I. GENERAL
4.01      The Government of Egypt would be the borrower under the Project.
It would assume through the Ministry of Agriculture the organization and
management responsibilities for Seed Certification Agency and Vegetable
Research Institute under the Vegetable Seed Production Sub-Project. The
Project Unit within the Ministry of Irrigation would be responsible for the
organization and management of the civil works in the West Nubariya area.
The Bank Misr will act as the credit channel for the remaining project
components, through its lending to Nubariya Seed Production Corporation,
Potato Growers' Cooperative, El-Wadi Export Company, Nile Company and Union
of Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops. In addition Bank Misr will
be responsible for providing development credit to agro-industries in the
fruit and vegetable sub-sector. The organization and management respons-
ibilities for each sub-project would be that of the entity involved.
Il:. BANK MISR
General
4.02      Bank Misr was established in 1920 as a commercial bank in the private
sector. Besides doing commercial banking, Bank Misr diversified its activi-
ties by establishing a group of 28 companies in different spheres such as
transportation, navigation, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, insurance and cotton.
It made a profound impact on the Egyptian economy during its years of growth.
Bank Misr established several cotton based industries and developed close links
with the people of Egypt. It still continues to enjoy public confidence which
is reflected in its success in mobilizing deposits in the private sector, as
described in para 4.10.
4.03      In 1960 the Misr group of companies including Bank Misr was national-
ized and grouped under the name Misr Organization. The Bank Misr took shape
as a joint stock company set up under Presidential Decree No. 872 of the year
1965. Prior to nationalization the share capital of Bank Misr was EL 2 million,
divided into 500,000 shares held by 5,200 shareholders. After nationalization
all shares of Bank Misr were vested in the Central Bank of Egypt. In September
1971 Bank Port Said was amalgamated into Bank Misr. Subsequently, (May 1972)
the capital of Bank Misr was increased from EL 2 million to EL 4 million.
4.04      The Bank Misr was set up originally to have a life of 50 years from
the date of the decree in 1965. Any prolongation of the 50 year period should
be decided by the General Assembly. The powers of the General Assembly are
vested in the Board of Directors of the Central Bank of Egypt. Bank Misr has



- 59 -
183 branch offices spread all over Egypt, with headquarters at Cairo. In
addition there are 17 offices dealing with foreign exchange transactions only.
It has an affiliated bank in Lebanon named Bank Misr-Lebanon In which It holds
83 percent of t-he share capital.  Recently Bank Mi*sr has embarked on establish-
ing companies jointly with international/national collaboration. The first of
such ventures will be the establishment of Misr International Bank with 51
percent Bank Misr participation in the equity. The other partners are Banco
de Roma and First National Bank of Chicago. Bank Misr is also negotiating
with Romanian banks a proposal to set up a joint bank in Egypt.
Organization and Mfanagement
4.05      Board of Directors.  Bank Misr is managed by a Board of Directors
which has at present 9 members 1/. The Chairman of Bank Misr is also the
Chairman of the Board. All the members of the Board are full time officers
of Bank Misr. The Board meets once a week and the decisions are taken by a
majority vote. The Chairman and the four Directors are appointed on the re-
commendation of the Governor, Central Bank of Egypt by means of a Presiden-
tial decree.
4.06      Organizational Structure.  The Chairman of Bank Misr is the chief
executive. He is assisted by a Deputy Chairman and nine General Managers.
The services and the operations of Bank Misr are administered through nine
departments each headed by a General Manager. The main functions of the
departments are: (a) Planning, Research and Follow-up Department is respon-
sible for the general policy of Bank Misr, planning its future activities and
following up on potentially bad loans mentioned in the inspection reports con-
cerning the branches; (b) Legal Department deals with legal aspects and legal
work related to bad and doubtful loans and also advises the management on
legal issues concerning Bank Misr's working and represents the Bank Misr in
all legal matters; (c) Inspection Department conducts the inspections of the
branches and evaluates the Inspection Reports for the purpose of proper in-
ternal control on application of Bank ttisr's instructions at the branches;
(d) the Financial and Administrative Affairs Department is responsible for
preparing Bank Mtisr's budget, keeping record of Head Office's financial
activities, purchase and management of the store supplies and management of
Bank Misr's buildings and properties; (e) the Foreign and Commercial Opera-
tions Department manages the foreign exchange transactions, services to
tourists, importers and exporters, and supervision of financing to allo-
cated sectors, and (f) the remaining four departments are responsible for
1/   The nine members are:  Chairman, Deputy Chairman and three General Man-
agers - Members of the Board - of Bank Misr and four elected representa-
tives of employees of Bank Misr. However, in terms of the new banking
law issued October 1975, the number of members of the board will be re-
duced from nine to seven. In the reconstituted board the four elected
employees will be replaced by two outside banking specialists nominated
by Central Bank of Egypt and approved by the Ministry of Economy.



- 60 -
administration of Bank Misr's branches and are organized on regional basis as
follows: Alexandria Branches Department, Regional Branches Department, Cairo
Branch Department and Cairo Branches Department. These departments issue
instructions and guidance to branches in their respective regions, collect and
evaluate management control information from branches, decide on loans beyond
the powers delegated to the branches and evaluate performance of the branches.
In addition to the above departments there is a Personnel Department and an
Organization Development Department. These are relatively smaller departments
each headed by a Chief Manager who reports to the Chairman.
4.07      Staff.  The total number of employees of Bank Misr was 9406 as of
March 31, 1975. This represents an increase of about 8% over the last three
years. The new staff is recruited from among new High School and University
Graduates and advancement within the bank depends on educational qualifica-
tions, seniority in the bank and merit judged on the basis of annual evaluation
reports. The staff at each level of management positions is very well expe-
rienced in the working of the bank and is generally of high calibre.
4.08      Staff Development Programs.  A Training Division exists in the Organ-
ization and Administration Department. The Division is responsible for organiz-
ing and conducting a variety of training courses for the employees of the bank
at two training centers of the bank. There is no full time teaching faculty.
The lecturers are drawn from the bank staff, relevant ministry officials, Cen-
tral Bank of Egypt and Universities. The range of training programs includes:
introductory course for new staff members, intermediate level course for staff
with 3-5 years experience in the bank, a course in banking and head office pro-
cedures for Section Officers al: the head office, a banking operations course
for Assistant Managers and a course designed to improve management skills of
managers in the bank. In addition to training provided by the bank's own train-
ing wing, staff is sent occasionally for training in outside institutions.
There are no training programs at present for specialized activities, such as
Development Banking, Rural Banking, International Banking, etc.
Financial Structure
4.09      Equity:  The total equity of Bank Misr as per the audited balance
sheet for 1974 amounted to EL 21.72 million, up from EL 20.6 million in 1972,
of which the total share capital was EL 4 million owned by the Central Bank
of Egypt.
4.10      Deposits:  The analysis of deposits with Bank Misr for the period
1972-74 shows that the aggregate deposits of Bank Misr grew from EL 333
million in December 1972 to EL 453 million at the end of December 1974. The
bulk of deposits of Bank Misr - 64% - came from the private sector. There has
been a remarkable growth in the number of savings bank account holders, which
stood at 310,827 at the end of 1974, representing an increase of 26% in two
years. Time and savings deposits constituted 44% of total deposits with Bank
Misr in 1974.  Interest rates are 2 to 4% on time deposits and 4% on regular



- 61 -
savings accounts set by the Central Bank of Egypt. The rapid growth of
deposits of Bank Misr, coupled with the fact that it mobilized savings from
the private sector in face of negative real rates of interest, bears proof of
success of deposit mobilization effort of the Bank Misr and reflects public
confidence in it. The long-term resources of Bank Misr comprise the time and
savings deposits. So far the investment credit activities of Bank Misr were
negligible as it granted only short term loans as per Central Bank regulations.
This situation is likely to change in the coming years because since September
1975 the banks are permitted to lend for longer terms and are free to operate
in all sectors. The involvement of Bank Misr in development lending under the
project would also provide an impetus to growth in its total investment credit
portfolio and a better utilization of its long-term resources.
4.11      Lending Operations.  Analysis of lending operations of Bank Misr for
the period 1972-74 by type of economic activity, by public and private sectors,
by type of borrowers, by type of guarantee shows that all loans were for short
term only. Loans for trading activities continued to dominate lending opera-
tions of Bank Misr though their relative share in total loans declined from
54.3% to 44.5%. The public sector is the predominant beneficiary of Bank Misr
loans though the private sector improved its share from 14.8% to 17.5%. Within
the private sector loans to individuals increased from 11.2% to 13.2%. Nearly
one-third of the loans were granted against the security of merchandise.
Fifty-eight percent of loans were classified unsecured. However, the risk
status of these unsecured loans is considered very low since the borrowers are
invariably public sector companies of good standing.
4.12      The Bank Misr's assistance to the agricultural sector has been mostly
indirect through its loan to Egyptian General Organization for Agricultural and
Cooperative Credit - which in turn granted loans to farmers. Such loan amounts
increased from EL 28.8 million in 1972 to EL 54 million in 1974. In addition
a sum of EL 103,000 was directly loaned to farmers by Bank Misr. The rate of
loan recoveries is reportedly very high. It is estimated that doubtful debts
do not exceed 0.8%. Most of the arrears in a given year are usually recovered
in the following year. The current provisions for doubtful debts amount to
about EL 18.5 million and exceed any foreseeable losses. The overall quality
of the loan portfolio of Bank Misr appears to be good.
4.13      Financial Position:  The comparative statement of balance sheets of
Bank Misr for the years 1972-74 shows that the total balance sheet for 1974
amounted to EL 537 million, up from EL 397 million in 1972 (increase of 35%).
The loan portfolio of Bank Misr increased by 26% during the period 1972-74.
This was mainly financed through growth of aggregate deposits by 36% during
the same period. The liquidity ratio of the Bank Misr stood at 46.7, 54.2 and
58.4% for the years 1972, 1973 and 1974 respectively as against the required
liquidity ratio of 30% in terms of central banking laws. The higher liquidity
ratio is characteristic of all commercial banks in Egypt except the Bank of
Alexandria. The possible reason could be that Bank of Alexandria alone had



- 62 -
the opportunities for investment lending under two IDA credits whereas the
remaining commercial banks lend for short-term purposes only. The Bank Misr
is required to maintain 20% of its net daily cash balance as cash reserve
requirements in terms of Central Bank regulations. Any excess cash can be
deposited with the Central Bank and earns interest at the rate of 1-1/2%. In
view of the steady increase in deposits the resources position of Bank Misr
should remain strong or get stronger. On these bases Bank Misr's financial
position is strong.
4.14      Financial Performance:  The Bank Misr has earned profits in excess
of EL 2 million each year in the last five years. Its net profits for 1974
amounted to EL 4 million, representing an increase of 80% over 1973. The
increased earnings were possible due to the low cost of deposits to Bank
Misr - the interest paid on deposits as a percentage of total deposits was
1.42 and 1.46 respectively in 1973 and 1974. The unusually low cost of
deposits resulted from the fact that 56% of Bank Misr's deposit portfolio was
comprised of interest-free current deposits mostly from the public sector.
En addition the current administrative costs of Bank Misr are on the low side.
Its administrative costs were 1.50 and 1.30 percent of its total assets in
1973 and 1974 respectively. Thus, the increased earnings were possible through
managing increased operations with a less than proportionate rise in costs
with the result that while the gross income increased by 74% the expenses
increased only by 21% during 1974. The net profit as a percentage of net
worth increased from 11.40% in 1973 to 16.50% in 1974. It will be difficult
*to sustain this rate of growth in profits over a longer period but there is
no reason to believe that Bank Misr's past record of profitable operations is
likely to change.
4.15      Audits.  The financial year of Bank Misr coincides with the calendar
year. Bank Misr has both internal and external auditing arrangements in addi-
tion to daily and periodic checking and balancing of its books of accounts
which are kept on the principle of double entry bookkeeping. The internal
auditing is done by the well-experienced staff attached to the Inspection Depart-
ment of the bank. Each branch is audited once a year. In addition the In-
spection Department audits the Balance Sheet preparation and Statements of some
of the branches at each year-end. The objective of internal audit is to ensure
compliance of rules, regulations and instructions issued by the Head Office of
Bank Misr.
4.16      There are three external audits of Bank Misr.  The first is done
by the Government Audit Authority once a year in terms of law relating to
public sector companies. The second is done once a year by auditors from
Central Bank of Egypt in terms of banking control regulations. The third is
the statutory audit of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statement. The
auditors undertake extensive audit of compilation of Balance Sheet and Profit
and Loss Statement of Bank Misr. The external audit arrangement appears satis-
factory. Bank Misr would be required to maintain separate accounts under
the proposed Bank loan, and would have its accounts audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that it would send the
auditor's report to the Bank within six months of the end of its finan2ial
year. Bank Misr would also be asked to require its subborrowers to appoint
independent auditors.



- 63 -
Lending Policies and Procedures
4.17      The Bank Misr's activity is limited to granting short term loans for
a period not exceeding one year at present. This situation will change in
terms of the changes in recent banking law. The interest rates charged on
loans made are in accordance with limits set by the Central Bank of Egypt.
Banks normally charge between 6 and 7 percent per annum for all loans except
cotton financing, for which there is a preferential rate of 5-3/4 percent.
In the case of loans with collateral security Bank Misr's policy is to grant
loans against commodities which can be easily liquidated. Loans without col-
lateral are granted by the Bank Misr according to the reputation of the
client, and the ability to repay the loan. Utilization of credit facilities
under no circumstances should exceed the authorized limits unless previously
approved.
4.18      Each loan request is subjected to an appraisal process which reviews
purpose, amount and maturity of the loan and the repayment schedule and col-
lateral proposed for the loan. The financial statements are obtained from the
loan applicants and analyzed explicitly by a unit set up for the purpose with-
in the Bank Misr. A credit report on each loan applicant is prepared by Credit
Information unit which collects credit information from local sources. Consid-
eration is given to the repaying capacity of the loan applicants and guarantees
and/or collateral securities are taken in accordance with the guidelines. Direct
loans to farmers for agricultural purposes are made on the basis of set norms
currently varying between 20-26 EL/feddan for different agricultural crops.
4.19      Loan supervision is carried out primarily by monitoring the opera-
tions in the loan account, by the Credit Department. In cases of default at
the repayment date the reasons for non-repayment are ascertained by meeting
with the client. If satisfactory reasons exist the loan is rephased; otherwise
the loan recovery is pursued through pressure on the borrower and guarantors.
The legal action is the last resort. In cases of direct loans to farmers for
agricultural purposes field visits to their farms are made by the Branch Manager
with a frequency dependent on status of the loan but at least once during the
life of the loan.
Role in the Project
4.20      Suitability.  Bank Misr was recommended by both the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Central Bank of Egypt to be the credit channel for the Project.
It has shown a great deal of interest in participation in the project. Bank
Misr is well established and efficiently managed. It has an extensive branch
network throughout Egypt and well experienced staff resources. Its financial
position is strong and its operations are conducted on sound banking policies.
Bank Misr has demonstrated its ability to mobilize resources, and the quality
of its loan port-folio is good. In 1971 the Government designated Bank Misr
as the bank for the agricultural sector. Bank Misr aeveloped close ties with
the sector through its dealings with cotton and rice marketing and lending to



- 64 -
the Egyptian Organization for Agricultural and Cooperative Credit. 1/  Bank
Misr, though lacking expertise in agriculture development lending, has con-
siderable experience in setting up companies, with equity participation
involving substantial investments. In the process it has accumulated ex-
pertise in analysis of investment proposals. It has potential to become a
development credit institution in agriculture. Bank Misr has expressed its
intention to continue to expand agro-industry and agricultural lending. In
view of the aforesaid Bank Misr is considered a suitable channel for project
funds.
4.21      Responsibilities.  Under the proposed loan, Bank Misr will act as
the channel for project funds. It will grant loans to five sub-borrowers for
subprojects related to vegetabLe seed production by NSPC; construction of
potato cold stores by PGC for handling certified seed potatoes; construction
of citrus packing stations and provision of transport facilities to El-Wadi
Export Co. for increasing citrus exports and provision of grading and packing
stations, cold stores and transportation facilities to Nile Co. and Union of
Producers-Exporters of Horticu:Ltural Crops for developing vegetable exports.
These project components have been appraised by the IBRD and reported in
Chapter 2 of this report. Bank Misr would have the coordinating, supervision
and financial responsibility for these sub-loans and the disbursements made
under the project.
4.22      There would also be an allocation of EL 5.5 million as part of the
proposed loan for extending credit to agro-industries in the fruit and vegeta-
bles sub-sector for promoting integrated development of the sub-sector. Bank
Misr will assume complete project cycle responsibilities of identification,
appraisal and supervision of investments to be financed under this general
credit allocation. This would enable Bank Misr to develop its own appraisal
capacity for future term lending.
4.23      Bank Misr will establish an Agricultural Development Lending Unit
and assign suitable and adequate personnel of high calibre from its staff for
efficient administration of the proposed loan. Under the project it will
embark in the field of development lending. The Bank Misr management recog-
nizes the need for training its staff in development lending practices and
project preparation, appraisal and supervision processes. As development
lending is an entirely new activity for Bank Misr it would also need technical
assistance in setting up its development lending unit and developing appro-
priate policies and procedures. There is a limit to the staff that can be
trained in a given time because only a few staff are fluent in langages other
than Arabic. Some English language training has been planned for few staff
members and in time will enhance the chances of Bank Misr staff attending EDI
courses and taking advantage of the Fellowships proposed. One Senior Fellow-
ship and four Junior Fellowships are proposed for training Bank Misr staff in
1/   In September 1975, the specialization by banks was discontinued and banks
are free to compete in all sectors.



- 65 -
development-lending institutions in other countries. Technical assistance in
the form of twelve man-months of consultancy services is also proposed.
On-Lending Policies and Procedures
4.24      Project Components:  Bank Misr will grant loans to the five sub-
borrowers under the project for investment within the framework of this
Appraisal Report.  It will obtain securities and other collateral acceptable
to it whose value covers 100% of the loan. The loan value of mortgages of
real property shall not exceed 75% of market value of such property. The
Bank Misr will obtain and review progress reports from the sub-borrowers on
implementation of the project and take such steps as it considers necessary to
supervise effectively the loans. Bank Misr will on-lend at effective interest
rates of not less than 10% per annum for the foreign exchange part of its
medium and long term sub-loans and at not less than 7.5% per annum for the
local exchange part of its sub-loan. The term of the sub-loan would be
determined in accordance with the estimated life of the sub-project and after
careful estimates of the repayment capacity of the sub-borrower. However, the
maximum repayment period will not be in excess of 15 years.  Bank Misr will
also provide the short-term loans to meet the working capital requirements of
the sub-borrowers. The sub-borrowers will contribute at least 20% of the
project costs as the down payment and Bank Misr will provide loans up to 80%
of the project costs. The Bank funds would be used to reimburse 100% of the
estimated Foreign Exchange part of the project cost. The foreign exchange
risk will be born by the Government and parallel market exchange rate will be
used to evaluate the foreign exchange cost of the loan and repayment liability
for the foreign exchange.
4.25      General Agroindustries Development Credit:  Bank Misr will extend
loans to agroindustries sub-projects consistent with the objective of the
integrated development of the fruit and vegetables sub-sector. Following this
principle Bank Misr will initiate studies to identify the sub-projects and
render necessary assistance in project preparation. It will appraise the
sub-projects on the basis of economic viability (including marketing prospects
for the envisaged production), technical feasibility, financial soundness and
satisfactory organization and management arrangements. The Agricultural
Development Lending Unit will prepare an appraisal report covering the above
aspects for each sub-project.
4.26      It is proposed that Bank Misr's lending conditions for the general
agroindustries credit allocation be similar to those agreed to for the project
components. The subloans in excess of EL 150,000 (US$254,000) would be subj-
ect to prior Bank approval.                                 s
4.27      On-Lending Rates and Spreads:  The Egyptian economy is characterized
by control on prices at almost all levels. Price of capital is no exception.
Egyptian interest rates have remained unchanged over a long period, and in-
dustries and insitutions were prohibited by law from charging interest rates
in excess of 7% per annum until recently. Wnen the projected rate of infla-
tion of about 8% per annum until 1980, is taken into account, the current real



- 66 -
interest rates are nil for medium term lending in local currency and positive
(+1.85%) for term lending in foreign currency. Resource allocation is so far
achieved by the central planning authorities who decide directly or indirectly
on all investment programs in the economy. Public and private funds are how-
ever still deposited with the banking system mostly because of the absence
of other capital market alternatives, and also in view of the liquidity
preference of the depositors. Government seems lately to reconsider its
policy of tight control on prices and is therefore preparing for a credit
policy based on a greater role for the interest rates in the economy. As a
first step, it is reported that since January 1976, the maximum has been
raised to 8% for loans in local currency. The proposed interest rates under
the Project of 10% on foreign exchange and 7-1/2% on local exchange parts of
loans, although limited in their scope, represent a movement in the desired
direction. Thus the proposed interest rates would be appropriate for the
following reasons:
(a) The issue of interest rate under the Project cannot be sep-
arated from that of the economy at large, and a solution of
the issue rests on restructuring lending rates under a na-
tional policy on interest rates. An isolated higher increase
in interest rates under this Project may well discourage pros-
pective investors from the private sector.
(b) The administrative costs for lending under the Project will
be low compared to usual agricultural lending because Bank
Misr would be granting a small number of loans for large
amounts and long duration in areas already serviced by
its branches. The spread of 1.5% on IBRD funds onlent is
sufficient to permit recovery of its administrative costs
and still leave the whole operation profitable to Bank
Misr.
(c) For the local funds both the administrative as well as the
financial costs to Bank Misr have been low in the past.
Consequently, loan operations have yielded good profits.
The proposed interest: rate of 7-1/2% is 1/2% higher than
the currently chargec rate. The estimated spread of 1.5%
should therefore allcw Bank Misr to recover all its costs
and earn reasonable profit.
(d)  The use of parallel market exchange rate which is more
realistic than the official rate of exchange in valuing
the capital investmert costs and repayment liabilities
of the sutborrowers would result in the removal of the
traditional 50% subsidy on the foreign exchange transac-
tions of the Government owned companies, thus raising
real costs of the foreign exchange component of the
loan to them.



- 67 -
(e) The borrowing, under the Project, by the public sector com-
panies, would mean foregoing access to Government budgetary
allocations which entailed little or no financial cost. A
more drastic increase in interest costs burden, particularly
on local funds, might well dampen the enthusiasm for participation
in the Project, despite the unusual advantages that it offers
to the potential investors, mainly allowing them to make their
own decisions on investments and receive all their needed funds
on time.
III. THE NUBARIYA SEED PRODUCTION CORPORATION
4.28      The production of vegetable seed would be assumed by a newly formed
Government owned corporation which would be financially autonomous, commer-
cially oriented, and staffed with a high caliber personnel recruited from
various departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and related organizations.
To attract first class staff, salaries and benefits will be above prevailing
levels and social amenities would be provided.
4.29      The Corporation will have three Departments:  A Vegetable and Potato
Seed Department, a Field Department, and an Irrigation and Drainage Department.
Under the overall control of the Managing Director of the company, the Director
of the Seed Department would be responsible for all duties relating to roguing
and inspection, processing, quality control and marketing. His work would be
fully coordinated with that of the Farm Director, so that the location, area,
harvest periods, daily amounts harvested and all other relevant aspects of
vegetable cultivation would be agreed upon.
4.30      For farming purposes, the corporation farm would be composed of two
halves, one following a potato crop-rotation pattern and the other following a
tomato crop-rotation pattern. Each half of 11,400 feddans would be under the
charge of a senior field manager. Each half would be divided into four farm
blocks, each about 2,850 feddans. Each farm block would have a field manager
and the staff and machinery required for the implementation of the rotation
sequence. The exceptions will be the small areas of certain vegetables (e.g.
eggplants) where it will be more efficient to allocate the production respon-
sibility (and the machinery required) to one farm manager instead of dividing
it among the four farm blocks.
4.31      Irrigation and Drainage Department will be headed by the Irrigation
and Drainage Director who will be responsible to the Managing Director of the
company. He will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of civil
works and for water distribution. He will be assisted by two engineers, one
in charge of an operation section, mainly water dist-;ibution, and the other of
a maintenance section for drains, structures, and roads, etc.



- 68 -
4.32      Many of the agricultural staff and civil engineers of the LDCO
presently working on the area 'would be transferred to NSPC to maintain con-
tinuity of farm operations, of drainage and irrigation works, and to execute
and/or supervise new works in conjunction with the Project Unit for the Civil
Works (para 4.34 below).
4.33      The Government should establish the charter of the proposed NSPC,
and appoint the management personnel, namely the General Manager, the Field
Director, the Irrigation and Drainage Director, and the Seed Production and
Processing Director who will be engaged as soon as possible for the develop-
ment of the 23,000 feddans that: Government has selected for seed production.
This Government land would be granted to NSPC which would own or lease it for
sufficient time (30 years) to operate it. The LDCO, which is responsible for
State Farms in the New Lands, is now cultivating part of the 23,000 feddans.
The NSPC will have a fully paie-up capital of EL 4 million to be provided by
the Government over a four year period as follows: EL 1.2 million, EL 1.1
million, EL 1 million and EL 7C0,000 in years 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively.
Based on the cash flow projections of the Nubariya Seed Production Company the
period for the loan will be 14 years with a four year grace period. The final
net cash inflow at the end of 14 years will be EL 9.7 million. The replacement
costs and the operating and maintenance costs will be covered by the expected
returns of EL 5.6 million/year, at full development, from the investments.
The NSPC contribution to the investment costs would be made over four year
period from the paid-up capital (to be contributed by the Government). Invest-
ments will be spaced over a five year period.
IV. NUBARIYA MAIN OUTFALL
4.34      A Project Unit has been established by the Government for the execu-
tion of the West Nubariya Drain under the Ministry of Irrigation's General
Directorate for Agricultural Ex2ansion in the West Nubariya Area.  The Project
Unit comprises of seven engineers from the Ministry of Irrigation. The Project
Unit under the Ministry of Irrigation will maintain audited records of ex-
penditures for the Nubariya Main Outfall and the sealing of Nasr Canal. The
Unit will prepare tender documents, award contracts, supervise construction
and initiate the operation of civil works components of the entire project in
West Nubariya Area. This would include in particular construction of the
train Outfall as well as rehabilitation and improvement of the main irrigation
and drainage networks In the 23,000 feddans of NSPC. The Unit would be dis-
solved on completion of the pro-ect works and its responsibilities regarding
maintenance and operation of the completed infrastructure would be assigned
to the Ministry of Irrigation, the Ministry of Agriculture and to the
Nubariya Seed Production Corporation, as appropriate.
V. POTATO GROWERS' COOPERATIVE (PGC)
4.35      The PGC be responsible for the building and running of the po?tato
cold stores.  The Cooperative already owns potato cold stores and it
ing another large one.  Extra ccld stores proposed under the proj--c: 



- 69 -
thus an expansion of their normal activities. The Co-operative has expe-
rienced staff. It should have no difficulty in recruiting additional staff.
The affairs of the cooperative are managed competently by a Board of Directors
composed of 13 members representing all provinces of the Republic. The
Chairman is the Chief Executive. The cooperative has departments dealing with
planning, public relations, agriculture, finances, administration, marketing
and commercial affairs. It also has a department dealing with cold stores
operations including stores, purchases, engineering aspects, maintenance and
operation.
4.36      The aggregate balance sheets of the Potato Growers' Cooperative
amounted to EL 3 million in 1974 up from EL 2.6 million in 1972. The sub-
scribed and paid up capital of the company is EL 82,000 composed of equal num-
ber of shares of EL 1 each, held by potato growers. The total capital, re-
serves and provisions increased from EL 0.65 million in 1972 to EL 1.03 mil-
lion in 1974. The increased funds were used to finance an increase in fixed
assets of EL 0.26 million and for working capital purposes. The current as-
sets exceed the current liabilities. The Cooperative derives its revenue from
a 3.5% commission on the sale of imported seed, charges for the storage of
potatoes of members, charges for the grading of potatoes and sale of locally
produced certified seed potatoes. The net profits 1/ of the Cooperative in-
creased from EL 0.11 million in 1972 to EL 0.14 million in 1973, but declined
to EL 0.10 million in 1974. The decline in profits was due to a reduction in
volume of imported seeds handled, as well as a reduction in the volume of
potatoes stored on behalf of members. The accounts of the Cooperative are
audited by the Government Audit Authority.
4.37      The Cooperative's capital base of EL 82,000 and free capital reserve
of about EL 100,000 is considered inadequate relative to the proposed invest-
ment under the project. Understanding was reached with the Potato Growers'
Cooperative management that it would increase the capital to EL 182,000 by
the end of 1976 and to EL 282,000 by the end of 1977 through the issue of
new shares. This capital increase of EL 200,000 coupled with the normal in-
crease in reserves will provide sufficient financial base for the proposed
investment and the Cooperative will be able to put up 20% of the project cost
as its share over the five year implementation period. The cash flow projec-
tions of the Potato Growers Cooperative indicate a repayment plan, for the
long term loans, over a fourteen year period including a four year grace
period. Assumptions underlying the cash flow are: PGC's contribution for
the investment costs will be made through increased capital and past retained
earnings; the projected returns from the investments would more than cover the
1/   The net profits of the Cooperative are to be distributed as follows:
20% for legal reserves
10% for public services
5," for social services
5% for cooperative training
5% for agricultural laborers' training
16% for compensation of Board of Directors' members
10% for compensation to cooperative employees
Baiance to be distributed to members



- 70 -
replacement and operating costs as well as the debt servicing obligation when
the Project reaches it full development after five years. At the end of 14
years the net cash cumulative inflow will be EL 2.1 million.
VI. EL-WADI EXPORT COMPANY
4.38      Organization and management of the Citrus Packing and Marketing
sub-project will be integrated in El-Wadi's overall organization and
management structure. The Company is organized with the Chairman as the
Chief Executive. He is assisted by General Managers for the Export, Domestic
Marketing, Financial Affairs and Administrative Affairs Departments. In ad-
dition there exist Planning, Branches, Legal and Inspection Departments. The
present management and operations staff are competent. The Company already
operates nine packing stations and no difficulty is foreseen in managing the
proposed packing stations. Competent personnel and technicians exist in Egypt
and no problem of recruitment of the required additional personnel is ex-
pected. Of immediate need is the formation of a transport department to take
charge of moving the produce, using vehicles provided under this project, from
the orchards to packing stations and from these stations to the ports. The
transportation requirements in excess of those which can be handled by the
vehicles provided under the project will be handled by private transporters,
as at present.
4.39      The total capital of El-Wadi Export Company is EL 1,829,900 composed
of 914,950 shares of EL 2 each. The Company obtains its revenue from export
sales of fruits and to a lesser degree from sale of rice, onions, garlic and
groundnuts. The increase in its capital and reserves from EL 4.9 million in
1972 to EL 6.5 million (increase of 32%) indicates the overall profitability
of the Company. The Company's fixed assets increased from EL 3.17 million in
1972 to EL 3.54 million in 1974. The increase in assets was financed mainly
by drawing on Reserves and Provisions. Its current assets exceed its current
liabilities. The net profit of the Company increased from EL 0.85 million
in 1972 to EL 1.84 million in 1974. In terms of law governing public sector
companies only 25% of the Company's net profit before tax 1/ is retained by the
Company. 75% distributed profit is not available to the Company for financing
growth. The Company's financial position is sound and no difficulty is anti-
cipated in meeting its share of 20% in the project costs.  The disbursement
1/   The Company's net profit before taxes are distributed as follows:  2%
for Nasser Social Bank; 5% for purchase of Government securities; 5%
for statutory reserve; 5% for investment reserve; 10% to general reserve;
an amount equal to 5% of company's paid up capital is distributed between
its shareholders and employees in 75:25 ratio; 10% of remaining net pro-
fits (after making all above distributions) is to be paid to Egyptian
Foreign Trade Organization as supervision fees; and finally the rema -lir4
net profits are distributed to shareholders and employees in 75:23 roio.



- 71 -
plan for El Wadi Export Company is based on the assumption that one plant
would be constructed each year. The sub-borrower contribution will be met
from owned funds and projected returns. The cash flow and the debt servicing
obligations are based on the assumption that each plant will be generating
income at the end of 12 months. The repayment schedule has been worked
out for each plant with a two year grace period followed by repayment in
three equal yearly instalments in view of expected return of EL 231,000 per
plant/ year. Thus the overall repayment plan extends over nine years with
two year grace period followed by seven yearly repayment instalments. The
cumulative net cash inflow at the end of the ninth year is projected to be
EL 9.9 million.
VII. NILE CO.
4.40      The Nile Company is organized along functional lines with four de-
partments dealing with Administration, Finance, Export and Domestic Marketing
and Purchases. The Chief Executive of the organization is the Chairman. There
are also Planning and Legal Departments advising the Chairman. The Company
already owns and operates packing stations and no difficulty is anticipated
in management of the additional plant and machinery envisaged under the proj-
ect as it has competent staff. The present management is considered adequate
for the proposed investment.
4.41      The aggregate balance sheet of Nile Co. amounted to EL 8.5 million
in 1974 up from EL 6.6 million in 1972. The subscribed and paid up capital
of the Company is EL 1,000,000 composed of 500,000 shares of EL 2.00 each.
The total capital reserves and provisions amounted to EL 3.9 million in 1974
as against EL 2.5 million in 1972. The fixed assets existing as well as in
progress increased from EL 2.6 million in 1972 to EL 2.9 million in 1974.
The increase in fixed assets was financed mainly from drawing on reserves
and provisions. The current assets exceed the current liabilities. The work-
ing capital of the Company was financed by credit purchases and use of provi-
sions as a source rather than loans from commercial banks to reduce interest
costs. The net profit of the company was EL 0.57 million in 1972, EL 1.5 mil-
lion in 1973 and EL 1.2 million in 1974. The increased profits were mainly
due to the Company's commission on rice sales which it handles for the Govern-
ment and earns a 3.5% commission thereon. However, in terms of law governing
public sector companies, the Company can retain only 25% of net profits for
creating reserves and provisions 1/. Only 5% of net profits go to investment
reserve. The 75% distributed profit is not available to the Company for financ-
ing growth. In view of windfall profits in the past two years on rice sales,
the Company has increased its fixed assets existing as well as in progress
by EL 0.3 million and substantially expanded its operations. The financial
position of the Company is cons dered good.  The Company should be able to
finance the down-payment of 20% of project costs in the project from its own
resources without any difficulty. The cash flow of the Nile Company has been
1/ The detailed distribution list is same as for El-Wadi Company, presented
in Section VI above.



- 72 -
worked out on the assumption that all the investments will be made in the
first year -and will generate revenue. The Nile Company's contribution to
investment costs will be made from owned funds. The expected return of
EL 650,000 per year will adequately cover the operating and maintenance costs
and enable the Nile Company to pay off the total long term loan of EL 355,000
over a two year repayment period. The cumulative net cash inflow at the end
of the third year is expected to be EL 589,000.
VIII. UNION OF PRODUCERS AND EXPORTERS OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS (UPEHC)
4.42      The Charter of the Union is pending with the Government for approval.
The Charter provides that the day to day management of the Union will be
vested in a Board composed of ten directors, six of whom would be elected by
the members and the remaining four would be nominees of the Government. In
addition the Government would appoint a Chairman of the Board who would also
be the chief executive of the Union. The Union at present is managed by a
Chairman under overall supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Its staff
is derived on secondment basis from the Government. The staff of the Union
appears competent and no diffizulties are expected in the management of this
organization if management powers are provided to its staff according to a
duly approved charter.
4.43      The Union has no capLtal base at present.  Its operations are fi-
nanced from funds borrowed from the Central Cooperative Union, Bank of Cairo
and Accounts Payable. The unaudited Balance Sheet of the Union shows that
its total operations more than doubled from EL 88,790 in 1972 to EL 209,713 in
1974. The increased operations were possible with a careful cash flow manage-
ment. The Union incurred a losS of EL 21,735 in 1972 but made a profit of EL
45,121 in 1973. However, it again incurred a loss of EL 9,058 in 1974 so that
its accumulated profits now amount to EL 4,654. The losses were mainly due to
the ad hoc nature of the Union"s operations which resulted in high administra-
tive costs which in turn caused the loss. As the accounts of the Union have
not been audited in the last thiree years the financial analysis can give only
limited insights into the Union's financial position. However, it is appar-
ent that the Union's charter shiould allow for adequate capital structure.
The Union should acquire sufficient capital to meet at least 20% of the total
project investment cost and have adequate financial arrangements to meet its
working capital requirements. Provision of adequate capital base and charter
to the Union by the Government would be a condition of sublending to the Union.
The cash flow projections of the UPEHC have been based in a fourteen year loan
including four years grace peri.od. UPEHC's share of investment costs will be
financed from owned funds (to be allocated by the Government) and retained
earnings in subsequent years. The expected returns of EL 568,000 per year at
full development will adequately cover the replacement costs, operating costs
and the debt servicing obligations. The cumulative net cash inflow at t'le
end of the fourteenth year wil3 amount to EL 509,000.



- 73 -
CHAPTER 5 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Procurement
5.01      Procurement of civil works for NSPC including sealing of the Nasr
Canal, building of offices, stores and houses and construction of tile drains
(US$14.3 million) would be procured by NSPC with the technical advice of the
Project Unit, on the basis of international competitive bidding according
to the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Civil works for the Nubariya Main
Outfall, excavation as well as structural construction (US$41.7 million) would
be procured by the Project Unit on the basis of international competitive
bidding according to the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. All civil works
would be grouped into lots of sufficient size to attract wide international
competition. Local contractors might qualify to undertake the works proposed
under the Project, but in view of the need for timely implementation of the
Project and the considerable backlog of construction works in Egypt which is
imposing a heavy load on local contractors, it may be necessary for them to
enter into joint venture with foreign contractors when bidding for these
works.
5.02      Procurement of civil works by NSPC consisting of completion or re-
habilitation of existing irrigation, drainage and infrastructure works (US$9.4
million) would be made by NSPC on the basis of local competitive bidding ac-
cording to local procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works of various
nature and small size, scattered throughout the Project area are not suitable
for international competition, and would more effectively be implemented by
local contractors.
5.03      Procurement of equipment, farm machinery and vehicles for NSPC,
procurement of civil works, equipment and vehicles for PGC, El Wadi Co., UPHEC
and procurement made under the general agroindustries credit allocation would
be made by the subborrowers. Items would be bulked to the extent possible in
lots of sufficient size to attract wide international competition (minimum
US$250.000) and would be procured under international competitive bidding
according to the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Numerous small lots amount-
ing to about US$250,000 each would be procured over the duration of the Project
by subborrowers through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Bank or purchased locally or abroad after quotations have been invited
from at least three sources of supply. It is expected that about US$22.3
million would be procured under ICB while about US$18.5 million would be
procured locally or abroad after inviting quotations from at least three
sources of supply.
5.04      Procurement of various items of equipment for the Seed Certification
Agency and the Research Institute which would not cost in the aggregate more
than US$250,000 annually (total US$400,000) would be procured by these agencies
after quotations have been invited from at least three sources of supply.
Consulting and engineering services under the Project (USS1.5 million) would
be hired by the agencies concerned according to the Bank Guidelines on the
Uses of Consultants.



- 74 -
5.05      Bank Misr will supervise administratively all procurement procedures.
For all procurement on the basis of local competitive bidding or competitive
quotes, an analysis of prices offered, a copy of the contracts would be sent
to the Bank at the time the awards are made.
II. Disbursements
5.06      Bank disbursements would extend over 5 years.  Disbursements for the
Nubariya Main Outfall, Relining of Nasr Canal, Seed Certification Agency and
the Vegetable Research Institute would be made through the Project Unit set
up under the Ministry of Irrigaition. Disbursement for the works implemented
by NSPC and under the Agrolndustries Component will be made through Bank Misr.
Withdrawal of Loan proceeds will be in accordance with the following per-
centages:
(a) Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and consultants services for
Vegetable Research Institute and the Seed Certification Depart-
ment: US$250,000 - 100% of foreign expenditures and on account
of equipment, vehicles and spare parts, 70% of local expenditures.
(b) Civil works and engineering and equipment and vehicles for
relining of the Nasr Canal and construction of West Nubariya
Main Drain: US$13,250,000 - 100% of foreign expenditures
and on account of equipment and vehicles, 70% of local ex-
penditures.
(c) Credit to NSPC and AgroIndustries component to be financed
by the Bank Misr:
(1) Civil works and engineering and consultant services:
US$14,000,000 - .00% of foreign expenditures and 35%
of local expenditures under contracts that do not
identify foreign expenditures.
(2) Equipment, vehicles and spare parts: US$20,200,000 - 100%
of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
(d) Unallocated. US$2,300,000 - The funds under this category
would be used to meet eventual shortfalls of funds in other
categories that might be due to price escalation. Any savings
after project completion would be cancelled.
III. Estimated Cumulative Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
5.07      The estimated cumulati,;e quarterly schedule of Bank disbursements
under the Project is as follows:



- 75 -
Fiscal Year            Quarter            Cumulative Disbursement
US$ '000
1977                      3                        2,694
4                        5,388
1978                      1                        8,803
2                       10,778
3                       13,691
4                       16,604
1979                      1                       19,518
2                       22,432
3                       25,849
4                       29,266
1980                      1                       32,683
2                       36,101
3                       38,542
4                       40,983
1981                      1                       43,425
2                       45,867
3                       46,900
4                       47,933
1982                      1                       48,966
2                       50,000
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08      Bank Misr, as the channel for the Project funds, would be respons-
ible, with assistance of relevant Government Agencies, for evaluating the
benefits realized under the Project.  It would monitor its credit activity
within the Project, report quarterly on progress achieved in Project imple-
mentation, difficulties encountered and propose alternative measures or
actions to be taken to resolve these difficulties, assess annually the econ-
omic impact of the Project and evaluate by year two after effectiveness of the
Project, the prospects for future medium and long term lending in Agriculture
Sector. The latter task would be achieved in conjunction with the technical
assistance to Bank Misr provided for under the Project (para. 2.83).
5.09      The Ministry of Irrigation and the Ministry of Agriculture will fur-
nish to the Bank annual reports on the status of the main drain and the com-
plemrentary irrigation and drainage works in the area served by the main drain
for a period of 10 years after the completion of all works for the Nubariya
Main Outfall as well as the relining of the Nasr Canal. They will also carry
out an evaluation of the Nubariya Main Outfall on the land productivity in the
project area upon its completion and for 10 years thereafter.



- 76 -
V.  Environment
5.10      The subproject would not create specific environmental problems,
with the possible exception cf bilharzia spreading. No provision has been
taken in the present subproject, since a survey for bilharzia control, fi-
nanced by the World Bank is under way in Upper Egypt Drainage Project. Gov-
ernment and the Ministry of Health will monitor the possible spread of bil-
harzia in the West Nubariya area and undertake the necessary preventive mea-
sures within the framework of their national bilharzia control program.
CHAPTER 6 - PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
I. Financial Benefits
6.01      Financial rate of returns were calculated for the major invest-
ments made by the subborrowers for seed production and vegetable cold
storages and packing plants in the Project. Results of these calculations
are summarized below:
E'otato     Citrus
Grower's Coop. Packing  Tomato Packing   Green Veg.
Items              NSPC    Cold Storage    Plant          Plant        Packing Plant
----------------------- (EL'000) ----------------------------
Investment Cost  13,721            979         649          56              30
Net Operating    35,355          1,972       1,369         117               69
Revenue Before
Debt Service
Financial Rate of    15             18          48          44              48
of Return in %
Project Cycle
in Years              20            20          10          10               10
Net income and financial returns are sufficiently high to make the proposed
investments attractive.
6.02      NSPC operating costs and investments costs which include technical
assistance costs were calculated at December 1975 prices. The revenues for
seed production were valued be:ween 40 and 70% of the c.i.f. prices of im-
ported seed and the revenues for fresh or dried fruit and vegetables to be
sold for consumption were valued at prevailing respective farm-gate prices
in Egypt.



- 77 -
6.03      An increase by 10% of the investment and operating costs would de-
crease the-rates of return to 13% and 12% respectively. A decrease of the
revenues by 10% would reduce the rate of return to 10% but an increase of the
revenues by 25% bringing them close to the international price level, would
increase the rate of return to 30%. In view of the new Government policy on
deregulation of selected vegetable seed prices, the financial rate of return
for this component is likely to be around 30%.
6.04      Using input and output prices prevailing in December 1975 the finan-
cial rate of return on a PGC potato cold store investment is 18%, making it a
worthwhile investment. Sensitivity tests show that a 10% decline in gross
revenue, which is an unlikely event, still leaves a rate of return of 14%,
while a 20% increase in investment costs gives a 13% rate of return and a 15%
increase in operating costs gives a 17% rate of return.
6.05      Similarly, financial rates of return were calculated for an invest-
ment by El Wadi in a citrus packing plant, and by the Nile Co., and UPEHC in
tomato and green vegetable packing plants. All the rates of return were quite
high, 44% for citrus and tomatoes and 48% for vegetables. Because of the very
high operating costs of all three plants relative to the capital costs these
investments are highly sensitive to fluctuations in both gross revenues and
operating costs. A 10% decrease in gross revenue gives a -1% rate of return
on the citrus plant, a 5% return on the tomato plant and a 3% return on the
vegetable plant, while a 10% increase in operating costs gives a 6% rate of
return on the citrus plant, an 11% return on the tomato plant and a 10% return
on the vegetable plant. All three investments remain relatively insensitive
to their capital costs. A 20% increase in capital costs gives a 32% return
on the citrus plant, 32% on the tomato plant and 35% on the vegetable plant.
6.06      This extreme sensitivity is not as serious as might seem because
the operating costs are almost all variable and so a function of output.
Consequently a decline in revenue through a decline in output is accompanied
by a corresponding decline in operating costs. An increase in operating costs
can be relieved by reducing producer prices and/or increasing the output pri-
ce. Imported packaging material is by far the major source of operating costs
and cost increases in this are likely to affect other exporting countries
equally leaving the relative competitive positions unchanged.
II. Economic Benefits
6.07      The Chapter II of this report describing the Project Components,
lists the main objectives and justifications of the Project. On the produc-
tion aspects, the most significant benefits are:
(a)  An increase of production of the vegetable-, produced under
the Project by at least 10% on average in Egypt. This in-
crease would result from the supply of adapted high quality



- 78 -
certified seed, assuming that the quality and quantity of
all other farm inputs would remain unchanged. The increase
in yields in already cultivated areas of West Nubariya
(180,-000 feddans) would be about 40% over the present level
and 60% over the level to which it is expcted to fall in five
years from now if an investment in a Main Drain is not made.
It was assumed also, that no significant increase in water-
melon production would occur as the seed already produced in
Egypt is of good quality. This project incremental vegetable
production would help also alleviate the shortage of fruit
and vegetables in the urban areas. It would, through in-
creased supply, contribute to ease the prices of the commod-
ities produced under the Project, making them more accessible
to the lower income groups of the population in the urban
areas (paras 1.06, 1.28 and 2.72).
(b)  The total annual net incremental value of the production
resulting from the Project is estimated at about EL 52.3
million of which about US$3.0 million would be in foreign
exchange. It is also estimated that Government would save
about EL 4.0 million (US$6.8 million) yearly through import
substitution of vegetable seeds and seed potato; and
(c)  The Project would help utilize a significant amount (about
80%) of the idle processing capacity of the existing tomatoes
and peas processing industry and would, through supply of
selected seed,improve production yields on about 800,000
feddans under vegetable production in Egypt. Through this
increased production, the Project is expected to generate
about 10,000 to 15,000 new jobs in the cities and in the
NSPC's farm at full development. About 50% of these jobs
would be permanent while the remaining 50% would be seasonal.
6.08      The next important impact of the Project would be through its insti-
tution building aspects included in each of its components:
(a)  Creation of an independent Seed Production Company, com-
mercially oriented and endowed of a complete technological
know-how capable of building up a base for a modern seed
industry in Egypt. This capability would be achieved through
training of a substantial number of NSPC staff and technical
assistance;
(b)  Strengthening of research and breeding capacity of the country
in vegetable seed production, through provision of equipment
and technical assistance;
(c)  Establishment of an independant certification agency to execute
legislation for certifying seeds according to international
standards;



-79-
Table 7: NUBARIYA MAIN OUTFALL - ECONONIC RATE OF RETUJN
............................... Year.
1       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9-40
............................. (EL'o00).
Gross Benefit l
17U,U w-e-aaanM           25,000  21,250  17,500  21,250  25,500  29,750  34,000  38,250  42,500
30,000 feddans            3,000   4,500   6,000   6,750   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500
30,000 teddans             -      3,000   4,500   6,000   6,750   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500
30,000 feddans             -       -       3,000   4,500   6,000   6,750   7,500   7,500   7,500
20,000 feddans             -       -        -      2,000   3,000   4,000   4,500   5,000   5,000
Electricity Savings/        _       _        -       -        -         oo      100      00      1
Subtotal               28,500           31,000 O 40,500  48,750  55,600  61,100 65,850  70,100
Investment Costs
Ysin Outfall               1,100   5,450   7,500   3,150    -         _-                        -
Land Development           5,528   4,176   3,708   2,532    -
costs for lands            -      5,528   4,176   3,708   2,532    -         -        -        -
;not yet cultivated-Z a        _            5,528   4,176   3,708   2,532    -         -         -
-       -       -       3,685   274   2472         66     -         -
Subtotal                6,628  U5,l5  20,914  17,253   9,024   5,004   i-                    -
Operating & Yainten-
ance
170,000 feddans           25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500
30,000 feddans            4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500
30,000 feddans             -      4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500
30,000 feddans             -        -      4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500
20,000 feddans             _ -              -      3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000
&in Outfall                 -        -               -         200      400     400     400      400
Subtotal               30,000  34,500  39,000  42,200  42,400  42,400  42,2400  42,40042,2400
Total Costs            36,628  49,654  59,9t4  59,453  5i,424  47,2404  44,088  42,400  42,L00
let Benefit             (5,128)(20,904)(28,914)(18,953) (2,674)  8,196  17,012  23,450  27,700
a~ Assuming that ultimate gross benefit per feddan is E1250: This benefit will be attained
gradually as follows:                Year     12 32 5.  767    8   9-40
- in the 170,000 cultivated land        %      bb     24050 60708090   100
-in the land newly or to be reclaimed %        40  60  80  90  100
/2Saving of EL100,000 would be made on purging of drainage mater into and from lake Mariut.
Investments and operating cost and maintenance for land to be developed were made according
to the unit cost projected for the development of the Nubariya Seed Production area. The
maintenance cost for the IEin Outfall was estimated at 5% of the construction cost and would
consist mainly of desalting and weeding the canal.
ResultE
- Economic Rate of Return:             19.2%
- Sensitivity tests:
Investment Cost   +5%               18.7%
Investnent Cost   -10%             20.4%
Operating Cost    +5,4              16.8%
Operating Cost    -10%             25.0%
Revenue            +10%            26.0%
Revenue            -10%             13.4%



XIe 8.  2801    8300  1005 Of100
.N.1   __    ~      75r                         4            5            6            7                          045*m   1..00   15,207,000  15,207,000   l5,2M7                                                                                              W -27,0
0-500220)101 ,,.s,r,11     0.501.000  20~~,750,0)0  30,850,070  4.0,lo,o    886.73." 020561)~ 56- ~ 5 W                                      ,5, ,5--.601.000   66o 0060000   42850000                                                                1,"       ,640.00     0,020,00
0.  0102001.70                 650,100     63(1.101   050~~~~~~~~61,02  6so,00  650.00       65 ,-0                   6,0,700         ,,        650,000      650,00      850,000      650.         650,00       650,008     650,W0       65o,oo       650,00       657.00      650.00
F.                                                 ---05  .  370,02     548, ~    560,10          568, ~    568,00          568,00      566,00       5A, ,00      560,100      560,000        , w 56,02 98.          560,00       560,000     560.00        68,00       560,000      560.00       560,00
1.   00lolLOLil80.1610.3872301&.Q  a      ---    1,410,100   3,116,000    5,003,900    7,10,050       ,           ,0,0        ,0000       8000 88,000000    8000,00    8,00,000              8,93000    8,ool,0        8,000,00    8,000.00    8.0002,00     8,    00    8    .00     8, 00
1-- P--  ~      ~         ~        110083420,0   4  2790 60 08010    78 so6,150o                 7280         02,0        9,0780 8,0,0                          93 ~13~                                                                                  93.11  767.0    8670(77 7,00_____ ____
10-8 000100,  3-00             3,852.72   3,130,9019  2,987 545    2,190 545     83V)  1       7o 707       710182    3.44>46       392,72       2,60,54      060,546     157,273      052,700      350,990      .07,273      529,091      98,364     113,636       890.00       100,989
2.  0.25o1 -     .IOlo                         25,004       1,739     1,788        --                                      ----                    ---          ---.--.--                                                       ...          --.---..,-
J. 00        l-0 . -h..0   8101                5,728     25.118'    31,100       03,640        6,Ooo        ---         ---                                                 --- ~       ---          ...          ---          ...          ---         ..
0.  2..(.20327 200 00(0.11       1.100,000  ~~~5,450.93  7,90.9     3.150,9          -..          ---          -            ---         --           ---          ---          ..                                                                          ---          .....  ....,
0.  1~~~1o 0,oo,o.so,o.o.llo.        027,001v.   05,30      805,300      800,00       06,904       16,904        469.90      46,900       46,.90      46.904      042.08       102.032      14.0.82     142.032        46.900      46.900      48,006      06.904        06.904       46,901,
I.  01 001 0.5050. 1520.10       1,o24,000~~~~ 1,111,900 ~610,.8      414,900        5,  1.6,10  1164 1.4,600             21,68.       o4,64o       00,500       Oo,oo       4,Oo         Aoso           ,640        21,60.      24,640      24,640     04,040        A'".o        Ao,64
0.  21,0 0s2t2o~~~~~~~~~~~           430,10       ---         ---          ...         ---         12,00          3,00         ,10         3,000        3,00        -2,-0        0,00        3,02         7,0           3,02       2220         3,0         3,100         5,20         3,10
F.  1102540,1                                                 111,090    50,390        5,00        13,930        8,21         8,20        5,000        5.000      179,80        24,030       8,20         8,20         5,mo          5,ow       15,530       5,000       5,080         5,100       5,00
0.  11010021 0j,.l.0.0,t220).~,,020   a 1.037,000 1.506000  2.0,2       .500.00     3,10,00        115605,6         ,620     70,500       70,500    2,528.86       340,45             11568  45.6,0       70,500        30,500     218,1*8      70,508       050         d.s0         7,1
I.  Moo., lo. 0..101o0,.o10.oOo.Ono 5,104,145   4.87-1,10  4,811,818    4.451,808    3,097,273    2,060,909  3,5C6,364   3.902.727    3,010,908    3,052,727    3,252,727   2,945,455    3,640,9D9    0,139,091   3,285,455   3,317.273   2,8.545   0.901 ,8o8     3,478,182    2,960,904
0    0,oo3l, h,,0                     0.0,02    34,500,00 a ,3           40.20,93   0A, .00   42,4.40,          41,4,93  42,000,00    42, 000   40,  ,.~   42,400,00    02,400,00    42,400,00    42,40,o6    62,00,93   42,000,93  42.40.oo4200 42,4                      00 4,008~  42,400,9
0,L.lo00000  0,.10155,000                                  11,000    160,20       0,           00,0         200-,   ,-   20           0,0         200 ,000      -0,         20000 -       0, ,-      200,10       22,21         2000        -2,9        208,00      200,00       22,00        208,0
D.  II0015,121e.3.                                            811,300  1,631,2-    2.52,0       3,270,00     JI,27,2      7I,27,3    7n,27,0       3,7000        .7000        ,702       3, .270      J,70,000    3,270,00      3,27,00      3,7.00       3,270.00  3.270,00-      3,270,000    3,273,00
2.  8110 10002,0                    ~~~~~       ~~~~~316, W 380,~   316,000  316, ~    36,93      736,00        806,00      314,00       3164,0       300.00      306,00       310,200        6 -1.0     91,0         30 6,00      31.6,000    710,00     516,0         3I6,Oo       316000
0.  10001                             ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  270.00- 03 4   415,         405,oo       415,2         415,000    015.00       415,000      415,00       405,00     4Oos,Oto       41500       05,000       015,00       415.000      4.5,2 -     .45,1        015,000     415.00
1. 501021  0o,,1,3,,20122  021...0.,1a    ---        560,0 -  ,6oo,oc      .2,3        5,850,00     5,870,00M     3,50,60   5,850,00      5,010,000    ,50,030~   5,8 5.00    5,Os5.co ~      ,85.000    7.50M,0       5,350,93o   5,95o,00      5,850,93  5,8w,-         5,Oso,00     5,880,00
II. loo151 0+  00000,  .0,o .o  ?00111,0,3  57,560  602,705   70106      005,465     700,050      718,450       700,4,0    700,450       710,65o      700,450     300,45       788.450      700,450     786,450      788,450      788,450      780,450    700,65            050,4    7MAW0
0,121 50o,.tIo CoO,              ~~~~~~~36,569,500   41,827,415 4901,80.288   56.a9727.783   763613    62405   699,1    651.            5 65, 059   564587       5.78756,M60,45   57,064,059   56,566,241   56,628,60    567013 503769 ,374,968    56,9011,872   56,30720?1
301 l,,,,7it           710,0881,657) 119,490,15*1717,403,490),  ~~~~237,082)  13.2~00.7    30,7.64,1    31,7353,568  56,107,352   56,119,584   31,178.708    35,009,15   36,477,08    35,486,872   86,561,66    86,477,96   36,253,456   37,008,902 37,608,360    35,931,00    36,909,806
400o.IA,.     ...0..07b. 0122.00            ..o2l   0 ..1.. ,,0p0s1%   oo-0l000~   2%0  52    OI1   o
1315   110%  318             10025100010051    0~~~~    ~~~       ~~108    360   --r      'r    19        58%                  Rno..,t Cos           0.5    098



- 81 -
(d) Promotion of research, and better management of resources by
surveying waterlogging and salinity problems in the Project
area, and developing better irrigation practices likely to be
extended to substantial parts of reclaimed areas in Egypt.
The Project would also through its different components advise
farmers to use better seeds and farm inputs, improve storing
conditions of potato growers, and provide more efficient
marketing services to exporters of fruit and vegetables; and
(e)  the Project would finally assist Bank Misr establish an Agri-
cultural Development Banking Unit which would constitute a
basis for development of production loans to farmers and pro-
cessors of agricultural commodities.
6.09      The economy is expected to realize an annual return of about 33%
from total Project investments including physical contingencies. Although the
cost of supporting services involving research, training, and technical as-
sistance are included in the Project costs, their benefits are not quantified.
Taxes were deducted from cost streams and subsidies for fertilizer, water for
irrigation and energy were added to the costs. The revenues were projected at
local market price levels about 25% below world market price levels. A sensi-
tivity test was applied to test the Project against changes in the Project
Costs and Production results. By increasing Project investment and operating
costs by 10% the rate of return would drop to about 31% and 24% respectively.
By decreasing the value of the benefits by 15% the overall return would drop
to 17%. The economic rates of return for individual components for seed pro-
duction, Nubariya Main Outfall and agro-industries components are: 38%, 19%
and 35% respectively. Sensitivity analysis applied to the individual benefit
and cost streams of these respective components show that they remain viable.
Detailed calculations on economic rates of return, are in table 35 of the
Project File.
III. Irrigation and Drainage Works Cost Recovery
6.10      For centuries and until now, the Egyptian farmers have enjoyed free
water supply for the irrigation of their land. The cost of major irrigation
and drainage works undertaken on their behalf by the Government, as well as
the operation and maintenance costs of these works, are to be recovered
gradually over a number of years, through the Land Tax. This policy appears
appropriate today, specially in view of the large drainage investments re-
quired to prevent decline in agricultural production, and the unfavorable
terms of trade for agriculture which prevent fuller and faster cost recovery.
With respect to secondary irrigation and drainage investments, the Government
issued a law in 1973 by whichi it decided to fully recover, through specific
levies over a twenty year period, the cost plus 10% administrative charges
for the tile drainage infrastructure that it is undertaking in the Delta and
Upper Egypt under two World Bank financed projects.



- 82 -
6.11       Investments costs included in the proposed Project, and related to
irrigation and drainage works in the NSPC's farm, would be paid for by NSPC
through repayment of its loan to Bank Misr (paras 3.04 and 4.21). NSPC will
be similarly assuming all the operation and maintenance costs of its irriga-
tion and drainage infrastructure. With regard to the Nubariya Main Outfall,
the cost recovery for this investment as well as for its operation and main-
tenance would be made in part, through the Land Tax on the private lands
served by the Drain, as it is the case presently for all major irrigation and
drainage works in Egypt. For Government owned lands which occupy the greater
part of the land to be served by the Drain, investment financing, cost recovery
and operation and maintenance would be handled through budgetary transactions,
as it is the case for all Government owned farms. The Ministry of Irrigation
would be the authority to ensure maintenance and operation of the Drain (para
4.34).
CHAPTER 7 - RECOMMffENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would as a condition oi- loan effectiveness:
(i)  Establish NSPC as an operating concern and make available
the first installment: of its contribution to NSPC's equity
amounting to EL 1.2 million;
(ii)   Either transfer ownership or lease to NSPC the 23,000 feddans
of West Nubariya intended for vegetable seed production (para
4.33);
(iii)   Appoint the Field Director, the Irrigation and Drainage Director
and the Vegetable and Potato Seed Director of NSPC (para 4.33);
(iv)  Ensure that NSPC shall have engaged the services of irrigation
practices and water management consultants.
7.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following prin-
ciple points:
(i)  Government would onlend to Bank Misr under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and Bank Misr, satisfactory
to the Bank an amount, equivalent to about US$34,200,000 of
the proceeds of the loan destined to finance part of Bank Mlisr
lending program to NSPC, Potato Growers' Cooperative, El Wadi
Company, Nile Company, UPEHC and other agroiondustrial invest-
ors in fruit and vegetables development, and to finance the
technical assistance to Bank Misr (para 3.04);
(ii) Onlend to Bank Misr at 8 1/2% interest with a repayment period
of 15 years including 5 years of grace;



- 83 -
(iii)  It was agreed that parallel market exchange rate will be
used to convert the foreign currency amounts into LE for
purposes of establishing the principle amounts of the sub-
loan to Bank Misr and the subproject loans made by Bank Misr
to its subborrowers;
(iv)  An implementation schedule for the construction of the Main
Nubariya Drain.
7.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Bank Misr that
it would:
(i) Onlend at 10% per annum the foreign exchange part of the
subloans and at 7.5 per annum for the local exchange part
of the subloans (para 4.24);
(ii) Establish an Agricultural Development Lending Unit to exe-
cute its role under the Project (paras 2.82 and 4.23);
(iii)  Use parallel market exchange rate to determine the costs in
Egyptian pounds of foreign exchange component on sub-loans
(para 4.24);
(iv) Comply with the procurement and disbursement procedures out-
lined in paras 5.02 through 5.06 of this Report;
(v) Monitor the benefits realized under the Project (paras 4.24
and 5.08).
7.04      With the indicated agreements and fulfillment of the above condi-
tions, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million on Third
Window Terms.






ANNEX
Page 1
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
I.     GENERAL
- Preparation Report
Agricultural Credit/Fruit and Vegetable Development Project
FAO/IBRD CP, May 21, 1975
II.    AGRICULTURE SECTOR
- Agroindustry and Rural Development in Egypt IBRD, Marc] 1973
- Egyptian Agriculture: Development Problems,
Constraints and Alternatives, IBRD, April 13, 1976
- Contemporary Egyptian Agriculture, Ford Foundation, January 1974
- Sub Sector data
III.   NUBARIYA SEED PRODUCTION CORPORATION (NSPC)
- Detailed Cost Tables
- Technical Assistance and Fellowships
- Value of Production and Cash-Flow Tables
- Technical Working Papers
IV.    SEED CERTIFICATION AGENCY
- Details of Equipments and Cost
V.     VEGETABLE BREEDING AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE
- Details of Equipments and Costs
- Technical Assistance and Fellowships
VI.    NUBARIYA MAIN OUTFALL
- Cost estimates
VII.   POTATO GROWERS' COOPERATIVE
- Investment Costs
- Financial Statements
- Details of Technical Assistance
- Working Paper: Potato Cold Store



ANNEX
Page 2
VIII.  EL-WADI EXPORT COMPANY
- Investment Costs
- Financial Statements
- Working Paper:   Citrus Packing Plant
IX.    THE UNION OF PRODUCERS AND EXPORTERS OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS (UPEHC)
- Details of Equipments and Costs
- Financial Statements
- Description of Packing Plants
X.     NILE CONPANY
- Details of Equipments and Costs
- Financial Statements
- Description of Packing Plants
XI.    BANK MISR
- Financial Statement:
- Lending Policies
- Operations Statemerts
- Technical AssistE:.ce and Fellowships
- Working Paper: Agricul-tural Credit in Egypt
XII.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
- Financial Rate of Return for NSPC, Potato Cold Store, and
Vegetable Packing Plants.



__RD-12O42
CYPRUS     SYRIA                                                                                                   FERUARY 1976
REPUBLICI                          ARAB REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
LEBANON.)  I              FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
aPOIAE ISRAEL      .AE
LOCATION OF THE 23,000 FEDDANS PROJECT AREA
PROPOSED MAIN NURARIYA OUTFALL                .        ROAOS
SAUD0I
-       ARABIA                           PROPOSEO ORAIN CONNECTION                     -20-  CONTOURS N METERS
REPUBL_C   PROJECT AREA BOUNOARY                                                                         I VILLAGE AREA
jARA REPUBLIC                                           NU8ARIYA CANAL                                _  _ _  INTERFARM LIMIT
EGYPT                                               IRRIGATION CANAL WITH PUMP STATION
MAIN DRAINS
BRANCH ORAINS
SUDAN                  |
TN, b-n, Oau  ulI  -InJP ma
mpl       nI,,adInNm,ln.te by It                                 I       2       3      4       S
HeAd A4tB ed il, TfiAiAIP                                                 KILOMETERS
D           I                                     4 ES
MILES
|                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~LOCK Kn 60    |NUA7YC41A 
I 
HID IA~~~~~~~OP 
G  I A' IIT,MAY
1_,'$^:>\''gFARM  72' 
lFARM  6A E   !9v
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VY                                                            0 .2   VT~FFM3  1P2
MECHANISE0 ,'VS  1      \   I                                / 1 7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F A RW M13AM   B             }    p     
I    8             ~~~F F A                                         r- M  FAR    5BR    1
X  X zo4  l    ivv ----5t L  ---l--.i-                                                                             11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------
6 ~~~~~1          0 ,0 0 0   F E   D D A N S )      /5C   i/2  
s = = = , @'~~~WAY  
I             ,          /                                        ''";$                ==                                             4~~~~~~~~~~~.,6 
I~~~~~~~~~~I






29' 30'                                                                               30,1'00'                                                               CYPRUS      ASYRIAN
AFRAB REPLJBLIC  OF EGYPT                                                                                                                                                   CRtrE                       IIEPUBLIC
LEB3ANON 
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                          tp"'"oAT
/.c AO  MATt    ISRAEL    P,
// //// PROJECT AREA (23,001 FEIIUAN SEED FAR.A4                                                                                                                                             i
E\ RCLAIAED LAND
SAUDI
LAND TO BE RECLAIMED                                                                                                                                                                                              ARA81A
FtJTURE EXTENSION DE NASH CANAL                                                                                                                    L TARIi
-  -  -   PROPOSED MAIN NUBARIYA IIU1 FALL                                                                                                                                                        ARAE REPUELI
EXISTING CANAL AND PUMPING STATION                                                                                                                                                         EGYPT
EXISlING DRAiN
BOUNDARiLS OF RECLAIMED AND UNRECLAIMED FARM LANDS
0-   O   CITIES. TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                               SUDAN
- ROADS                                                                                                                                                         L DALM3R 300 >
RAILROADS
A LAT11    lLAU, AMA ri 1)   OLUTIVATUO
SAL As  SAN 0 G  AIlEAS   1EIDA-S
QDT,UllIli4SILAS,  LIE1'lSS   L)NAII-IAIS  /2000   1. 001901
MAIL  219      '10111k     (1) LIAIIAA     I.. lA  %04 1-b                                             OK                                                                                              tIAMANHOU
WESTFRN DESEFtT   ~~~~~~~-     ~          ~                     /NILEDELT
3 -'IILISFL,LJ01OAA                               190 I00  l
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11 t}:'AO                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '012 1,_300_._ ..____.___.._._1
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1 Al 901110       /                              1'~~~~~I6.                           'CLI~
)  ix',~~~~~M8
f,,  it l ',A'. I"-n~nn.q                                                         %                             v                                                                                                                     )
- 0ii                                                                                                                                                                                         <N



