」


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENTI dated June 11, 1976,, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making this Loan (hereinafter called the Loan) as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one;
(D) Banque Misr, a public financial institution operating
in the territory of the Borrower, will provide the loans required
for the implementation of Part C and Part D of the Project, with


﻿-2-
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Banque Misr part of the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and Banque Misr;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have -he following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Banque Misr of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Banque Misr pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreement;


﻿(c) "Project Unit" means the unit established under the
Ministry of Irrigation of the Borrower and referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
(d) "Agricultural Development Lending Unit" means the unit
in Banque Misr responsible for the development of the agro-industry
lending capability of said bank;
(e) "Sub-borrower" means NSPC, UPEHC, PGC, El Wadi Export
Company, the Nile Company or any other eligible beneficiary to
which Banque Misr makes a Sub-project loan;
(f) "Sub-project loan" means any loan made by BanQue Misr
to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project;
(g) "Sub-project" means any of the sub-projects included
in Part C and Part D of the Project;
(h) "feddan" means a unit of measurement of the Borrower of
which one is equivalent to 1.04 acres;
(i) "Project Area" means the West Nubariya area in the Bor-
rower's country;
(j) "NSPC" means Nubariya Seed Production Corporation, an
autonomous subsidiary of the West Nubariya Agricultural Company,
established and operating under Ministerial Decree No. 29 of
April 12, 1976, of the Borrower's Deputy Minister of Ag:..ulture
responsible for Land Reclamation, as amended from time to time;


﻿-5-
(k) "UPEHC" means Union of Producers and Exporters of Horti-
cultural Crops, established by Law No. 68 of 1971 and operating
under Ministerial Decree No. 49 of 1976 of the Borrower's Minister
of Agriculture and Irrigation, as amended from time to time;
(1) "PGC" means Potatoe Growers' Cooperative, a cooperative
established and operating under Law No. 51 of 1969 of the Borrower,
as amended from time to time; and
(m) "Egyptian Pounds" and "E" mean Egyptian Pounds in the
currency of the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any time
determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient
to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest
payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in para-
graph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
upon notification by the Administrator of such determination and
the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on
such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower's Minister responsible for irri-
gation is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions; provided, however, that Banque Misr
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purpose
of making withdrawals from the Loan Account under Categories (3)
and (4) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Secticn 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) carry out Part A of the Project through its Minis-
try of Agriculture and Part B of the Project through
its Ministry of Irrigation; and
(ii) cause NSPC to carry out the Sub-project included
in Part C of the Project;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with ap-
propriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, fa-
cilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Banque Misr to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Banque Misr therein
set forth, and shall take or cause to be taken all action neces-
sary or appropriate for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower shall relend to Banque Misr an amount equiv-
alent to thirty-four million two hundred thousand dollars
($34,200,000) of the proceeds of the Loan, or such other amount


﻿as shall be withdrawn under Categories (3) and (4) set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Banque
Misr, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank including, inter alia, the principal terms and condi-
tions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, any assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof shall require
the prior agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make available to NSPC, as a
contribution to its equity, an aggregate amount of four million
Egyptian Pounds (ZE4,o0o,ooo) in the following installments and
on the following dates:
(i) an amount of one million two hundred thousand
Egyptian Pounds (ZE1,200,000) before the Effective
Date;
(ii) an amount of one million one hundred thousand
Egyptian Pounds (ZE1,100,000) not later than
one (1) year after the Effective Date;


﻿- 10 -
(iii) an amount of one million Egyptian Pounds
(EEl,000,000) not later than two (2) years
after the Effective Date; and
(iv) an amount of seven hundred thousand Egyntian
Pounds (E700,,000) not later than three (3)
years after the Effective Date.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to UPEHC, as a con-
tribution to its equity, an amount of two hundred and ten thousand
Egyptian Pounds (EE210,000).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain a Project Unit
under its Ministry of Irrigation for the purpose of assisting the
Borrower under Part B of the Project and NSCP under Part C of the
Project in the preparation of -lans, designs and bidding documents
and in the supervision of construction and the initial operation
of the civil works included therein.
Section 3.04. The Boyrower shall transfer to NSPC qualified
agricultural staff and civil engineers from inter alia the depart-
ments and agencies of its Ministry of Agriculture to enable NSPC
to maintain continuity of farm operations and of drainage and
irrigation works, and to supervise the execution of new drainage
and irrigation works in conjunction with the Project Unit.
Section 3.05. Th- Borrower shall, through its Ministry of
Irrigation, continue to achieve irrigation improvements according
to modern techniques designed to reduce water losses and to con-
trol water logging and salinity in the Project Area, on the basis
of technical surveys and investigations.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that the Project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, including
the monitoring and control of the possible spread of bilharzia in
the Project Area within the framework of the Borrower's national
bilharzia control program.
Section 3.07. (a) In order to assist NSPC in the irrigation
and drainage works -n the farm to be established for the produc-
tion of vegetable seeds under Part C of the Project and to give
technical assistance to the Project Unit, as needed, the Borrower
shall cause NSPC to engage irrigation practices and water manage-
ment consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NSPC to engage, not later than
four months after the Effective Date or at such other date as
shall be agreed with the Bank, farm management and seed proces-
sing and marketing consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Vegetable Research Unit of the
Research Institute in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture in
vegetable applied research, the Borrower shall cause the Vegetable
Research Unit to engage agricultural consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause NSPC promptly to make
arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank for the ex-
traction and processing of tomato seeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause NSPC and the Project
Unit:
(a) to use their best efforts to achieve an efficient liaison
with the investigation presently carried out by the United Nations
Development Programme of the control of waterlogging and salinity
in the Project Area; and
(b) to take full account of the investigation presently car-
ried out by the Borrower of improvements of irrigation practices
and drainage design, in particular with regard to enforcement of
continuous irrigation during the peak irrigation season and with
regard to deepening of open drains and of tertiary drains to ac-
commodate underground drainage where necessary.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A or
Part B of the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A or Part B of the Project
to be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.11. In accordance with the mutual interest of the
Borrower and the Bank in the efficient implementation of the Proj-
ect:
(a) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Part A
and Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Borrower and the Bank
shall reasonably agree;
(b) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any records and documents relevant
to the Project; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds; and


﻿-14 -
(c) the Borrower shall through its Ministry of Irrigation
and its Ministry of Agriculture: (i) furnish to the Bank annual
reports on the status of the main drain and the complementary ir-
rigation and drainage works in the area served by the main drain,
included in Part B of the Project, for a period of ten (10) years
after the completion of all works included in Part B of the Proj-
ect; and (ii) upon the completion of such works, and about ten
years thereafter, carry out an evaluation of the impact of the
said main drain on the land productivity in the Project Area.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall either transfer to NSPC
ownership of a net area of about 23,000 feddans of reclaimed land
in the Project Area required for Part C of the Project or lease
such area to NSPC for a period of not less than thirty (30) years
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "area of about
23,000 feddans" means that portion of land in the Project Area
which is enclosed by the Cairo-Alexandria Desert Highway portion
between Km 66 and Km 74, the Nasr Canal, the Hidia Canal and te
Gianaklis Farm.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause NSPC not to allocate the area defined in the pre-
ceding Section 3.12 to activities other than production of vege-
table seeds and complementary activities agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank; and


﻿- 15 -
(b) cause NSPC at all times to manage its affairs, to main-
tain its financial position, to set the prices for its products,
to plan its future expansion and to carry on its operations, all
in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, commer-
cial and agricultural practices and under the supervision of ex-
perienced and competent management assisted by qualified and com-
petent staff in adequate numbers, and, to that end, not to expand
its activities other than seed production if such expansion would
affect or threaten to affect negatively its seed production opera-
tions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. However, if and when any lien shll1 be created on any pub-
lic assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 17 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained audited records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A or Part B of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall issue or cause to be issued
promptly such permits, import licenses and other authorizations
as may be needed for the efficient carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Banque Misr shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of Banque Misr under the Project Agreement.
(b) Presidential Decree No. 872 of the Borrower of 1965 shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such
a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Banque
Misr to carry out any of the covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement, unless otherwise agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Banque Misr or for the suspension of its operations.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Banque Misr will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 19 -
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and Banque Misr.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Banque Misr has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and Banque Misr, respectively, has been duly au-
thorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(c) NSPC has been duly and validly established in accordance
with the laws of the Borrower and has commenced operations, and
the Borrower shall have made available to NSPC the first install-
ment of its contribution to NSPC's equity referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower shall have either transferred to NSPC owner-
ship of, or leased to NSPC, the area referred to in Section 3.12
of this Agreement pursuant to the terms of said Section;
(e) NSPC shall have engaged the services of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; and


﻿- 21 -
(f) NSPC shall have filled the positions of Field Director,
Irrigation and, Drainage Director and Vegetable and Potato Seed
Director of NSPC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed on behalf of, Banque Misr, and is legally
binding upon Banque Misr in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly au-
thorized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, the Borrower
and Banque Misr, respectively, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and Banque Misr in accordance with its terms;
(c) that NSPC has been duly and validly established as a
legal person, has the power to borrow money, and has the authority
to carry on its operations, all in accordance with the laws of
the Borrower; and
(d) that the transfer of the area to NSPC referred to in
Section 3.12 of this Agreement has been duly and validly made
in accordance with the laws of the Borrower.


﻿- 22 -
Section 6.03. The date September 10, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Econony and Economic Cooperation
and the Under-Secretary of State for Economic Organizations and
International Finance of the Borrower are jointly and severally
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY                GAFEC
AND ECONOMIC COOPERATION      348 UN
8 Adly Street
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUl)


﻿- 24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, ve-                250,000         100% of foreign
hicles, spare                                 expenditures; and,
parts and con-                                on account of
sultants' ser-                               equipment, ve-
vices for Part                                hicles and spare
A of the Proj-                                parts, 70% of
ect                                           local expendi-
tures
(2) Civil works and            13,250,000         100% of foreign
engineering,                                  expenditures;
and equipment                                and, on account
and vehicles                                  of equipment and
for Part B of                                vehicles, 70% of
the Project                                   local expendi-
tures
(3) Civil works and            14,000,000         100% of foreign
engineering,                                  expenditures,
and consultants'                             and 35% of local
services for                                 expenditures un-
Parts C and D                                 der contracts
of the Project                               that do not iden-
and financed                                  tify foreign ex-
under Sub-                                   penditures
project loans;
and consultants'
services for
Part E of the
Project


﻿- 26 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Equipment, ve-            20,200,000         100% of foreign
hicles and spare                            expenditures and
parts for Parts                             70% of local ex-
C and D of the                              penditures
Project and fi-
nanced under Sub-
project loans
(5) Unallocated                2,300,000
TOTAL      50,000,000


﻿- 27 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower, and that term shall be deemed to include payments
to a contractor in a currency other than Egyptian Pounds pursuant
to a civil works contract; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
Egyptian Pounds and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then anplicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;


﻿- 28 -
(b) payments made for expenditures by UPEHC under Category
(3) or (4) until the Borrower has certified to the Bank that (i)
it has made available to UPEHC the contribution to UPEHC's equity
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) it has
validly issued UPEHC's charter in accordance with the laws of the
Borrower; and
(c) payments made for expenditures under Category (3) or (4)
until Banque Misr has established the Agricultural Development
Lending Unit referred to under Part E of the Project and unless
the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in re-
spect of the Sub-project loan pursuant to which such expenditures
are to be financed.
5.   Together with the request for the Bank's authorization for
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Sub-project loan,
a certified copy of the Sub-project loan agreement and a copy of
the appraisal report relating thereto and prepared by Banque Misr's
Agricultural Development Lending Unit shall be furnished to the
Bank.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, with the consent of the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another


﻿- 29 -
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such real.Location cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that (i) the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, or (ii)
the granting of a Sub-project loan to a Sub-borrower is inconsis-
tent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.01
of the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item or under
such Sub-project loan shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for fi-
nancing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the productivity of the
Borrower's horticultural sector to satisfy growing domestic demand
for vegetables and to generate foreign exchange earnings through
import substitution of vegetable seeds and exports of fruit and
vegetables. The Project consists of the following parts:
A.   1.   Expanding and equipping of the Vegetable Breeding Unit
of the Research Institute in the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture for research and vegetable seed breeding
for the benefit of vegetable producers throughout the
country.
2.   Expanding and equipping of the Seed Certification De-
partment in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, as
required to enable it to carry out its fruit and vege-
table seed certification functions.
B.   Relining of the Nasr canal and construction of a drainage
channel of about 67 km in the West Nubariya area to collect
drainage water from an area of about 280,000 feddans to help
solve the water logging and salinity problems encountered in
said area.
C.   Establishment, staffing, equipping and initial operation by
NSPC of a farm on about 23,000 feddans of reclaimed land in
the West Nubariya area for the production of vegetable seeds
and training of NSPC's staff.


﻿- 31 -
D.   Agro-industrial Sub-projects which shall be partially financed
through Sub-project loans made by Banque Misr and which shall
include the following:
1.   construction of potato cold stores for storage of certi-
fied seed potatoes together with the development of
methods designed to improve the efficiency and reliabil-
ity of traditional on-farm stores (nawalas), by PGC;
2.   establishment of citrus packing stations, including
stores and equipment, establishment of a small central
laboratory for quality control of citrus fruits, and
acquisition of additional hpndling, transport and stor-
age facilities, by El Wadi Export Company, for the pur-
pose of increasing citrus cxports from Egypt;
3.   construction of vegetable grading and pcking stations
and cold stores and acquisition of transport facilities,
by the Nile Company and UPEHC, for the purpose of in-
creasing vegetable exports from Egypt; and
4.   construction of fruit and vegetable processing, packag-
ing and handling facilities by private, cooperative and
public agro-industry companies.


﻿- 32 -
E.   Development by Banque Misr of an agro-industry credit capa-
bility, including the establishment of the Agricultural De-
velopment Lending Unit within Banque Misr and the training
of the staff of the Unit in realizing the purpose of the Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                    880,000.00
July 15, 1983                                       900,000.00
January 15, 1984                                    920,000.00
July 15, 1984                                       940,000.00
January 15, 1985                                    960,000.00
July 15, 1985                                       985,000.00
January 15, 1986                                  1,005,000.00
July 15, 1986                                     1,030,000.00
January 15, 1987                                  1,050,000.00
July 15, 1987                                     1,075,000.00
January 15, 1988                                  1,100,000.00
July 15, 1988                                     1,125,000.00
January 15, 1989                                  1,150,000.00
July 15, 1989                                    1,17$,000.00
January 15, 1990                                  1,200,000.00
July 15, 1990                                     1,230,000.00
January 15, 1991                                  1,255,000.00
July 15, 1991                                     1,285,000.00
January 15, 1992                                  1,315,000.00
July 15, 1992                                     1,345,000.00
January 15, 1993                                  1,375,000.00
July 15, 1993                                     1,405,000.00
January 15, 1994                                  1,435,000.00
July 15, 1994                                     1,470,000.00
January 15, 1995                                  1,500,000.00
July 15, 1995                                     1.535,000.00
January 15, 1996                                  1,570,000.00
July 15, 1996                                     1,605,000.00
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 34 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1997                                  1,640,000.00
July 15, 1997                                     1,680,000.00
January 15, 1998                                   1,715,000.00
July 15, 1998                                    1755,000.00
January 15, 1999                                  1,795,000.00
July 15, 1999                                     1,835,000.00
January 15, 2000                                  1,875,000.00
July 15, 2000                                     1,920,000.00
January 15, 2001                                  1,965,000.00
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 36-
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions
under which funds equivalent to part of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be lent to Banque Misr by the Borrower:
(a) Interest rate: eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%)
per annum.
(b) Repayment period: fifteen (15) years including five (5)
years of grace.
(c) Foreign exchange risk: borne by the Borrower.
(d) Commitment charges: those payable to the Bank in respect
of such proceeds of the Loan.


