Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 021936
Ozone Projects Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Demonstration Project for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated June 14, 1994
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 021936
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of 
grant funds provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete 
the Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established a Facility, including the OTF, to assist in the 
protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and 
sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer have 
established the Multilateral Fund (Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal 
Protocol to operate under the authority of the said Parties to provide the financing 
of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of 
Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the 
Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) the Executive Committee of the Fund and the Bank have entered into 
an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the Executive Committee has 
agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by the Bank as Trustee in 
accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution;
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ANPE" means the Recipient's National Agency for Environmental Protection 
(Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement), an industrial and commercial 
public institution established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 88-91 
Page  3
dated August 2, 1988, as amended by the Recipient's Law No. 92-115 dated November 30, 
1992, and the Recipient's Decree No. 88-1784 dated October 18, 1988, as amended by the 
Recipient's Decree No. 93-335 dated February 8, 1993;
(b) 
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and the term "Categories" means more than one Category collectively;
(c) 
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d) 
"CFC" means chlorofluorocarbons;
(e) 
"Country Program" means the Recipient's draft Country Program for the 
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances setting forth policy actions and proposing 
projects aimed to the phaseout of CFC by the year 2006;
(f) 
"Eligible Beneficiary" means a beneficiary enterprise listed in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement or any other enterprise as shall be agreed upon between the 
Trustee and ANPE, which meet eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Trustee and with 
which ANPE proposes to enter into a Sub-project Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(g) 
"Environmental Action Plan" means the Recipient's Environmental Action 
Plan developed in 1990 setting forth the Recipient's overall country environmental 
strategy;
(h) 
"FY" or "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to 
any of the Recipient's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year;
(i) 
"HFC" means hydrofluorocarbon;
(j) 
"HCFC" means hydrochlorofluorocarbon;
(k) 
"ODS" means ozone depleting substances;
(l) 
"OPIU" means the Ozone Project Implementation Unit to be established by 
ANPE pursuant to Part B of the Project;
(m) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n) 
"Sub-project Agreement" means an agreement: (i) to be entered into 
between ANPE and an Eligible Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Section 
B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) under which ANPE shall make equipment, 
materials and technical assistance available to the Eligible Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant for the purposes of carrying out a Sub-project; and
(o) 
"Sub-project" means a specific activity aimed at phasing out ODS in the 
Recipient's territory to be carried out by an Eligible Beneficiary under Part A of the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred ninety thousand 
dollars ($1,790,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through ANPE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, stratospheric ozone 
layer protection management and technical practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall promptly make the proceeds of the OTF Grant available 
to ANPE on a grant basis under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project through ANPE in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause the ANPE to maintain, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient:
(i)
shall have, or cause ANPE to have, the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for 
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
shall furnish, or cause ANPE to furnish, to the Trustee as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
shall furnish, or cause ANPE to furnish, to the Trustee such other 
information con-cerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient:
(i)
shall maintain, or cause ANPE to maintain, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
shall retain, or cause ANPE to retain, until at least one year 
after the Trustee has received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
Page  5
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
shall enable, or cause ANPE to enable, the Trustee's 
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
shall ensure, or cause ANPE to ensure, that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to secure eligibility in the future for financing of 
additional ODS phaseout activities, the Recipient shall take, or cause to be taken, 
all adequate action required to ensure that the Country Program is finalized and 
submitted to the Executive Committee of the Fund not later than December 31, 1994.
(b) 
Thereafter, the Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure 
that the recommendations of the Country Program as shall have been approved by the 
Executive Committee of the Fund shall be suitably incorporated into the next update of 
the Environmental Action Plan.
Section 4.03. The Recipient shall waive all taxes and duties applicable to items 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The Grant Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which 
the Trustee is satisfied the Agreement is fully executed and has dispatched to the 
Recipient notice of effectiveness. Effectiveness will take place when the Trustee is 
satisfied that ANPE has appointed the Project Manager referred to in Section A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee and 
the Trustee has dispatched to the Recipient notice of effectiveness.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment
149, Avenue de la Liberté
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address:
Telex:
MCIIE
18060
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C. and Tunis, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   OTF Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment and
Materials:
(a)
For Part A.1             93,000)
of the Project                 )  100% of foreign
                                           ) 
expenditures,
(b)  For Part A.2             187,000) 
100% of local
of the Project                 )  expenditures
                                           ) 
(ex-factory
(c) 
For Part A.3             94,000)  cost) and 100%
of the Project                 )  of local ex-
                                           ) 
penditures for
(d) 
For Part A.4             64,000)  other items pro-
of the Project                       ) 
cured locally
                                           )
(e) 
For Part A.5             46,000)
of the Project
 )
 )
(f) 
For Part B               39,000)
of the Project
 )
(2)
Consultants'
Page  7
Services, Training
and Maintenance
Services:
(a)
For Part A.1            152,000)
of the Project                 )
                                           )
(b) 
For Part A.2             85,000)
of the Project                 )
                                           )
(c) 
For Part A.3            322,000)  100%
of the Project                 )
                                           )
(d) 
For Part A.4             39,000)
of the Project                       )
                                           )
(e) 
For Part A.5            118,000)
of the Project                 )
                                           )
(f) 
For Part B              251,000)
of the Project                 )
(3)
Unallocated
190,000
TOTAL
    1,790,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a), until and unless the Trustee 
shall have approved the Sub-project Agreement with the Eligible Beneficiary 
responsible for the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project; (b) Categories (1) (b) 
and (2) (b), until and unless the Trustee shall have approved the Sub-project 
Agreement with the Eligible Beneficiary responsible for the implementation of Part A.2 
of the Project; (c) Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c), until and unless the Trustee shall 
have approved the Sub-project Agreement with the Eligible Beneficiary responsible for 
the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project; (d) Categories (1) (d) and (2) (d), 
until and unless the Trustee shall have approved the Sub-project Agreement with the 
Eligible Beneficiary responsible for the implementation of Part A.4 of the Project; 
and (e) Categories (1) (e) and (2) (e), until and unless the Trustee shall have 
approved the Sub-project Agreement with the Eligible Beneficiary responsible for the 
implementation of Part A.5 of the Project.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
OTF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements for expenditures under contracts for goods and services not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee may 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in implementing a 
strategy aimed to establish the institutional and regulatory framework for decreasing 
the use of ODS and introduce, on a demonstrational basis, ODS-free technologies to the 
country's refrigeration, foam and aerosol industries so as to initiate actions leading 
to an early ODS-phaseout program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  8
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Technology Development
Carrying out of a demonstrational program devised to assist the Recipient in the 
transfer of technology suitable to allow it to reduce ODS in the refrigerator, 
flexible foam and aerosol sectors, consisting in:
1.
Introduction of refrigerant HFC-134a with a view to replace refrigerant CFC-12 
in domestic refrigerators, on the basis of a program comprising the design and testing 
of refrigerator models which apply the new refrigerant and a seminar to disseminate 
the results thereof throughout the sector, and provision of technical assistance and 
equipment as required therefor.
2.
Replacement of CFC-11 as a foam-blowing agent by a low-content CFC, HCFC or 
CFC-free ODS-free substance for rigid foam insulation, on the basis of the testing of 
appropriate conversion or modification techniques and the carrying out of a seminar on 
options therefor and a study on the effects of the new foam on physical and energy 
parameters, and provision of technical assistance and equipment as required therefor.
3.
Implementation of a program designed to train refrigeration technicians on 
recycling and handling of non-ODS refrigerant aimed at introducing an accreditation 
system for refrigeration technicians, encompassing a study on the domestic 
refrigerator service sector, overseas training and provision of technical assistance 
and refrigerant recycling equipment on a rotational basis for demonstration purposes.
4.
Implementation of a program to replace CFC-11 in the flexible foam sector, 
involving specifically the testing of suitable CFC-free technology, the carrying out 
of a study and the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as 
required therefor.
5.
Assessment of the use of CFC in the aerosol sector to determine existing options 
in use and support users of CFC propellants in the conversion to optimal CFC-free 
options, based on the carrying out of a study, the demonstration of techniques 
identified in said study and provision of the required training and seminars.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Establishing and operation of the Ozone Project Implementation Unit to assist 
ANPE in managing the Project, specifically through recruitment of staff, provision of 
consultants'services, training and equipment, and identification of feasibility 
studies for new investment projects required to complete the phaseout of ODS, with 
initial focus on local production of CFC-free refrigerators. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
International Shopping:
1.
Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) different countries 
eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee.
Local Shopping:
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Page  9
Trustee.
Part B:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of price quotations and of proposed and final contracts: 
(a) With 
respect to: (i) the first contract for equipment under each Sub-project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $5000 or more; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, before price quotations are solicited, the Recipient 
shall cause ANPE to furnish to the Trustee for its comments, the specifications and 
other draft contract documents for the supply of goods thereunder, together with a 
description of the procedures to be followed for the comparison of price quotations, 
and to make such modifications in said documents or procedures as the Trustee shall 
reasonably request;
(b) 
After price quotations have been received and evaluated, the Recipient 
shall ensure that, before a final decision on the contract is made, ANPE inform the 
Trustee of the name of the supplier from whom it intends to procure the goods and 
furnish to the Trustee, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the 
evaluation and comparison of price quotations received, together with the 
recommendation to select a supplier and such other information as the Trustee shall 
reasonably request. The Trustee shall, if it determines that the intended contract 
would be inconsistent with the OTF Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement or the 
Guidelines, promptly inform the Recipient and ANPE and state the reasons for such 
determination;
(c) 
The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Trustee's 
concurrence, materially differ from those on which price quotations were asked; and
(d) 
Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Trustee 
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Trustee of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the OTF Grant Account in respect of such 
contract, or, where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, the two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Trustee 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
2.
(a) 
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph 1, 
the Recipient shall cause ANPE to furnish to the Trustee, promptly after its execution 
and prior to the delivery to the Trustee of the first application for withdrawal of 
the funds from the OTF Grant Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies 
of such contract, together with the analysis of the price quotations, recommendations 
to select a supplier and such other information as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request. The Trustee shall, if it determines that the selection of the supplier, or 
the contract itself, is not consistent with the OTF Projects Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement or the Guidelines, promptly inform the Recipient and ANPE and state the 
reasons for such determination.
(b) 
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Trustee has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-graph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist ANPE in carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall cause 
ANPE to employ consultants: (i) whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee; and (ii) who shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall cause ANPE to 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Trustee, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Trustee, ANPE shall use other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
Page  10
each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Trustee or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section A:
Institutional Arrangements
1.
(a) 
ANPE shall have responsibility for the overall implementation of the 
Project. To this end, the Recipient shall ensure that adequate staffing, physical and 
financial resources are at all times available to ANPE, including those necessary to 
assist ANPE in implementing the non-technical aspects of the Project.
(b) 
Specifically, the Recipient shall take all action necessary to ensure 
that ANPE: (i) monitor the Project in accordance with physical and financial 
indicators agreed upon between the Trustee and ANPE; (ii) open in its budget, and 
thereafter maintain, Project-related accounts; (iii) prepare (A) quarterly progress 
reports for submission to the Trustee not later than the 30th day after the end of 
each quarter in each Fiscal Year; and (B) the Project Completion Report; (iv) 
coordinate the implementation of the Sub-projects and ensure their consistency with 
the Country Program; and (v) ensure that the Grant covers only the incremental costs 
of Sub-projects and that Sub-projects are monitored for compliance with national and 
international environmental regulations.
Ozone Project Implementation Unit (OPIU) 
2.
The Recipient shall cause ANPE to take all steps necessary to ensure that the 
OPIU is maintained throughout the period of Project implementation under terms of 
reference and staffing, financial and reporting arrangements satisfactory to the 
Trustee. The OPIU shall be headed by a Project Director and shall consist of a Project 
Manager, four (4) coordinators and the necessary support staff. Specifically, the OPIU 
shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) overall coordination of Project activities; 
(ii) procurement arrangements and employment of consultants, including such 
arrangements as shall be necessary to ensure that goods and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant are procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and that such goods and services are used exclusively in 
the carrying out of Sub-projects; (iii) monitoring of the impact of Sub-project 
activities on ODS reduction; and (iv) preparation of additional projects to be 
submitted in the future for OTF financing of incremental costs.
Section B:
Sub-project Agreements
1.
The Recipient shall cause ANPE to enter into Sub-project Agreements with 
Eligible Beneficiaries in accordance with a model agreement acceptable to the Trustee, 
and under which: (a) ANPE shall obtain the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Eligible Beneficiary to the use of the equipment, materials and technical 
assistance upon failure by such Eligible Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
the Sub-project Agreement; and (b) the Eligible Beneficiary which is a party to the 
Sub-project Agreement shall agree, inter alia, to:
(i)
implement the Sub-project in a timely manner in accordance with 
the requirements set forth in the Sub-project Agreement;
     (ii)
provide the necessary funds and resources required for the 
implementation of the Sub-project;
    (iii)
maintain a satisfactory financial condition based on indicators 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(iv)
comply with all international safety standards and any safety 
requirements and conditions as shall have been determined by ANPE;
     (v)
furnish to the Trustee all such information on the Sub-projects as 
it shall reasonably request;
     (vi)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent 
with sound business practice; and 
Page  11
   (vii)
prepare a Sub-project completion report for submission to ANPE and 
assist it in disseminating the conclusions thereof promptly upon 
the completion of the Sub-project.
SCHEDULE 5
Eligible Beneficiaries
Part A.1 of the Project:
Tabrid Group
Part A.2 of the Project:
Tabrid Group; and
Grand Ateliers du Nord
Part A.3 of the Project:
Centre de Rades; and
Ecole du Peche de Kelibia
Part A.4 of the Project:
Sotumus
Part A.5 of the Project:
Judy
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $175,000 
to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Page  12
Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the OTF Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
