MIdNTREAL
PROTOCOL
/2'/90
Report No:  12490 TUN
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT 1)
PROJECT DOCUMENT
APRIL 1993
THE WORLD BANK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT COORDINATION DIVISION
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT






THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT I)
PROJECT DOCUMENT
APRIL 1993



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(23 June, 1993)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$ 1.00 = 1.008TD
UNITS AND MEASURE
metric ton = Ton (T) = 1000 kg
FISCAL YEAR
(July 1 - June 30)
ACRONYMS
ANPE                Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement
CFC                 Chlorofluorocarbons
CP                  Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
EC                  European Community
ECMF                Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund
GAN                 Grands Ateliers du Nord
GOT                 Government of Tunisia
HCFC                Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC                 Hydrofluorocarbon
INS                 Institut National de Statistique
LPG                 Liquified Petroleum Gas
MCIIE               Ministere de la Cooperation Intemationale et de l'Investissement de l'Exterieur
MEAT                Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
MeC1                Methylene Chloride
MFMP                Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
NOC                 National Ozone Committee (fr. CNO)
ODS                 Ozone Depleting Substance (fr. SDO)



ODP                 Ozone Depleting Potential (fr. PDO)
OORG                Ozone Operations Resource Group
OPIU                Ozone Project Implementation Unit (fr. UPO)
OTF                 Ozone Projects Trust Fund (of the Montreal Protocol)
PDG                 President Directeur General
UNEP                United Nations Environment Programme



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  ODS COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND .....................................1
ODS Consumption .....................................1
Government Policy and Actions Country Program .....................................1
Phaseout Schedule .....................................2
Government Commitment .....................................2
Institutional Aspects .....................................2
II. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT                                      .3
Bank Strategy                                       .3
Government Strategy                                    .3
Rationale For Montreal Protocol Financing                         .3
III. THE PROJECT                                         .4
Project Objectives                                    .4
Project Description                                   .4
(A) Technology Development                                  .4
(B) Institutional Strengthening                             .5
Project Costs and Financing                                .5
Project Implementation                                  .7
Project Sustainability                                 .7
Procurement                                        .7
Disbursement                                        .8
Accounts and Audits                                    .9
Supervision                                        .9
Environmental Aspects                                   .9
IV. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS                                     .9
Project Benefits                                     .9
Project Risks and Mitigation .10
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS, AGREEMENTS AND
RECOMMENDATION .10



ANNEXES
Detailed Project Component Descriptions and Budget Tables ............................................. 17
Recommended Governmental Regulatory Measures, ODS Monitoring Systems and
ODS Licensing and Accreditation Program ..............................................................                       39
Draft Agreement between Beneficiary Industries and ANPE ................................................. 42
TABLES
List of Montreal Protocol Controlled Substances and Tunisia Profile ................................... 47
Estimated ODS Consumption in Tunisia by Use and Application, 1991 ............................... 48
Recommended Schedule of Bans on ODS use in Tunisia ...................................................... 49
FIGURES
Consumption of ODS in Tunisia by Use and Application, 1991 ............................................ 51
Organigram  of Administrative Structure ..............................................................                       52
Recommended Flow  of Funds ..............................................................                                    53



THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE PHASEOUT OF
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
Project and Grant Summary
Recipient                 Republic of Tunisia
Executing Agency          Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement
(ANPE)
Beneficiaries             ANPE and Private Sector Enterprises
Total Project Cost        US$2.32 million
Re-lending Tenns          Not Applicable
Project Cost Summary      Component                                US$ Thousand
HFC- 134a Refrigerator Prototypes               364
Rigid Foam Conversion Demonstration             402
Technician Training (Refrigeration)             440
Flexible Foam Conversion Demonstration          171
Aerosol Study & Conversion                      264
Institutional Strengthening                     480
Contingencies (price and physical)              200
TOTAL                                         2,321
Project Financing         Ozone Projects Trust Fund               US$1,790,000
Counterpart Financing     GOT                                     US$ 190,000
Private Sector                          US$ 341,000
Total                                   US$ 531,000
Economic Rate of Return   N/A
Map                       N/A






THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE PHASEOUT OF
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
I. ODS Country/Sector Background And Status
ODS Consumption
1.01    As a Party to the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol (MP)', Tunisia is committed to the
phaseout of ozone depleting substances (ODS) by the year 2006.  Ninety-seven percent of ODS
consumption in Tunisia is in the form of Chlorofluorocarbon-1 1 (CFC-1 1) and CFC 12 which are used in
the refrigeration, foam and aerosol industries (a list of substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol and
their Tunisian consumption profile and the Tunisian ODS consumption are depicted graphically in Tables 1
and 2 respectively). There is no local production of CFCs in Tunisia; all CFCs are imported from Greece,
Italy, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Annual consumption of CFCs increased from 585 tons in
1986 to 730 tons in 1990 and was last estimated throughout the sectors in 1991 at 1,045 tons (out of a total
ODS2 consumption of 1,073 tons/yr). Of this, 55 percent (585 tons) was consumed as a foam blowing agent;
22 percent (230 tons) as a refrigerant; and 22 percent (230 tons) as a propellant for aerosol sprays.
Servicing of domestic refrigerators alone accounted for 54 percent of CFC consumption in the refrigeration
sector in 1991. A detailed breakdown of national ODS data for 1991 is found in Table 2. National
Consumption Patterns of ODS by Use and Application.
Government Policy and Actions
1.02    Country Program. Tunisia has prepared a Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances (CP - draft available upon request) with the assistance of the World Bank and in compliance
with requirements for obtaining Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol (MFMP) financing. The
recommended phaseout schedule of the CP is provided in Table 3. The CP is in its final phase of revision
and would be submitted for approval to the next meeting of the Executive Committee of the Multilateral
Fund (ECMF) in early 1994. The CP recommends policy actions and proposes several projects which
would ensure full compliance with the Protocol requirements and lead to the phaseout of CFCs by the year
2000 (with the exception of servicing refrigerators).
/ The Vienna Convention (1985) is a treaty which provides a framework for international cooperation to save the stratospheric
ozone layer which shields the earth from ultraviolet radiation. The Montreal Protocol (September 1987) established the framework
for implementation of the Vienna Convention. Parties to the Montreal Protocol have agreed to elimninate the production and
consumption of CFC and Halon ozone depleting substances, effective in 1989. The June 1990 London Amendments to the Montreal
Protocol established the Interim Multilateral Fund (now the Multilateral Fund) which provides financial assistance to qualified
developing countries, as incentive for early adoption of ozone protection technologies, to cover the incremental costs of meeting the
objectives of the Montreal Protocol.
/ ODS, which are regulated, under the Montreal Protocol, include all CFC-based substances as well as carbon tetrachloride,
methylene bromide, halons, etc.



2
1.03    Phaseout Schedule.  The CP's main findings3 are that Tunisia could phaseout CFCs at an
accelerated pace which would also decrease the overall phaseout costs to the national economy due
primarily to the cost savings of replacing CFC refrigerators and other refrigeration/cooling equipment prior
to their necessary retirement. The CP, therefore, recommends an accelerated phaseout strategy to take place
between 1994 and 2000 in which Tunisia would gradually shift to ODS substitutes (or transitional
substances) as they become available rather than waiting until 2005 to begin phaseout activities. The CP
estimates total incremental costs (at a national level) for this strategy to be approximately US$29 million.
1.04    The financing of incremental costs to developing countries is intended as an incentive for early
adoption of ODS phaseout activities and programs.  An accelerated phaseout scenario would be
accompanied by: a) a series of policy and legislative actions to enable the government to monitor, follow up
and enforce the CFC phaseout (a recommended list of regulatory measures and schedule of bans on ODS
use is provided in Annex 2); b) demonstration projects to assist the industries in phasing out CFCs in an
orderly and effective manner; and c) subsequent investment projects in the ODS-using industrial sectors.
Governrent Commitment
1.05    Tunisia ratified the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol on 25 September 1989, and
ratified the 1990 London Amendments in April 1993. In order to fulfill their commitment, Tunisia is
seeking funds from the MFMP which provides assistance to developing countries with an annual per capita
ODS consumption of less than 0.30 kg. As Tunisia's per capita consumption is only 0.10 kg/capita, and it
has prepared the CP (a requirement of the MFMP), Tunisia is eligible to receive assistance from the MFMP
to enable an accelerated phaseout schedule.
Institutional Aspects
1.06    As a first step towards the implementation of its CP, the Government of Tunisia has entrusted to
the Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE) the responsibility of coordinating and
monitoring CP activities. The ANPE - established in 1988 by the Prime Minister - is primarily responsible
for: advising the Government on environmental protection issues and policy, preparing environmental action
plans, monitoring pollutant emissions, approving environmental impact analyses of industrial projects,
promoting research, education and information dissemination and finally, coordinating national and
international environmental programs to ensure that Tunisia fulfills its international obligations. ANPE is
organized into six departments and comprises about forty professional staff. These are: the General
Directorate; Administration and Finance; the State of Environment and Public Awareness; Pollution control;
Large Scale Projects; Legal and Dispute. The head of the department of pollution control has been
nominated as the Director of this project. ANPE formerly reported directly to the Prime Minister; it now
reports to the Ministry of the Environment which
was established in October 1991.
1.07    After signing the MP, ANPE established a National Ozone Committee (NOC) which is responsible
for: (a) proposing regulatory measures necessary for the effective national phaseout of ODS; (b) providing
guidance towards the implementation of the Country Program's Action Plan; and (c) serving as a link to the
legislative body in Tunisia. The NOC is composed of fifteen members representing ministries, industries,
academic institutions and non-governmental organizations.
3/ The Country Program was prepared in 1992. It is based, on an allowable phaseout schedule for developing countries to the year
2010. The CP is presently being circulated by ANPE within the concerned ministry and industries for their comments.



3
II. Rationale For Bank Involvement
Bank Strategy
2.01    The Bank's role as an implementing agency for the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol4 is
to cooperate and assist in administering and managing a program to finance incremental costs of ODS
phaseout activities, enabling Article 5 countries to comply with the Protocol's control measures.
Furthermore, the Bank is beginning to play a larger role in the protection of the global environment by
integrating global environmental concerns into its environmental strategy.
Government Strategy
2.02    The bulk of ODS phaseout activities in Tunisia is expected to span over six years. At the
Government's request, the Bank provided assistance in the preparation of the CP (para. 1.02) and in securing
MFMP financing for the implementation of the ODS phaseout. The Government has already established a
National Ozone Committee, identified personnel within ANPE to be responsible for following up on MP
activities and started public awareness campaigns. In the private sector, several of the large aerosol
industries have already begun phasing out CFCs by converting to liquified petroleum gas (LPG) or
compressed CO2. The first phase of the CP (this project) would be to initiate the process of establishing the
institutional and legal framework for phasing out CFCs and, to demonstrate to the private and public sectors,
using a series of activities, the introduction of non-ODS substitutes in the refrigeration, foam and aerosol
industries. During the course of the project and after establishing the institutional and legal framework, the
Government of Tunisia would submit to the MFMP the second phase of the CP consisting of investment
projects to assist the private sector to modify production processes using ODS-free technology in the
refrigeration and foam sectors. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that the Recipient shall
finalize and submit the Country Program to the ECMF not later than December 31, 1994. This requirement
is also documented in the legal agreement.
2.03    With respect to the Government's overall environmental strategy for the country, the Government
has also requested the Bank's assistance in updating the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) which the GOT
developed in 1990. As part of the update, the recommendations of the CP would be incorporated into the
revised EAP.
Rationale for Montreal Protocol Financing
2.04    The grant will provide a financial incentive to the participating industries to phaseout their use of
ODSs, many of which had adopted a "wait and see" posture until the government applies the appropriate
regulations. The introduction of appropriate alternative technologies will allow for the accelerated phaseout
scenario enabled by MFMP financing. Finally, the proposed project meets the applicable project eligibility
criteria for MFMP financing as demonstrated by the allocation of funding (US$1.79 million) for the six
project components in the June and October 1992 MFMP meetings.
4/ Other implementing agencies include UNDP, UNEP and UNIDO.



4
III. The Project
Project Objectives
3.01    The project's objectives are to: a) establish the institutional and regulatory framework for
decreasing ODS uses; and b) introduce ODS-free technologies to the refrigeration, foam and aerosol
industries as a first demonstration phase in completing an early ODS phaseout program.
Project Description
3.02   In order to fulfill the stated objectives, the project consists of two main elements involving
institutional strengthening and technology transfer (detailed project descriptions can be found in Annex 1):
A.     The technology development element consists of five components in three of the major ODS-using
sectors, focussing on demonstration projects, technical assistance and training:
(a) The refrigeration sector consists of three components:
(i) the introduction of HFC-134a as a refrigerant replacing CFC-12 (US$395.,000). This
would involve the provision of engineering support to the largest refrigeration
manufacturer in Tunisia - Tabrid - which produces 300,000 refrigerators per year, of
which 200,000 are exported. With the assistance of a technical expert and support
from compressor manufacturers, the component would consist of designing several
refrigerator models using the new refrigerant (HFC- 134a) and optimizing the
physical parameters of each design through a testing program so that lines of
production could be modified in a forthcoming project. The final phase would
involve a combined seminar (component i & ii) to share appropriate findings with
representatives of the refrigeration sector;
(ii)   the replacement of CFC- 11 as a foam-blowing agent by a low CFC and/or non-CFC
substance (US$435,000). This would involve the testing of a low-CFC (50 percent
by volume - CO/H20) or a non-CFC (100 percent HCFC-142b/22, HCFC-141b or
cyclopentane) foam blowing technique for the rigid foams used as refrigerator
insulation, and a study of the effects of the foam on physical and energy parameters.
This would be done in Tabrid and the second largest refrigerator manufacturer,
Grands Ateliers du Nord (GAN); and
(iii)  the introduction of a CFC-recycling and refrigeration maintenance program to train
refrigeration technicians how to recycle CFCs and handle non-ODS refrigerants
(US$478,000; OTF). The training course would be the first step in introducing a
technicians accreditation system which would eventually be attached to the licensing
of industries handling and importing ODSs. This would be recommended under the
governmental actions.
(b)  The flexible foam component (US$187,000) would demonstrate the replacement of CFC-11
with a non-ODS substitute. This would be either H2O/CO2 mixed with polyols for higher
density foams or methylene chloride (MeCl) for blowing low density foam used in the
manufacturing of cushions and mattresses (about 70 percent of the Tunisian flexible foam
market). Because MeCl can be toxic to humans in a closed environment, the component



5
would provide for the acquisition of equipment needed for safe manufacturing and handling
of foam blown with MeCI, and worker awareness training seminars.
(c)  The aerosol component (US$278,000) would consist of a sectoral study in order to determine
the full technical and financial needs for technology development. The study would consist
of a sector assessment, a technology assessment as well as incremental cost calculations for
shifting to ODS free propellants; additional training would be carried out in the use and
handling of LPG for the remaining manufacturers, based on the results of the study.
13.    The Institutional Strengthening element (US$480,000) consists of establishing the Ozone Project
Implementation Unit (OPIU) which would be responsible for execution of the project within the
planned budget and schedule and in conformance with Bank guidelines. The OPIU will be headed
by the Project Director (a staff member of the ANPE) and managed by a Project Manager (to be
financed under the grant). An institutional specialist will be obtained on a part time basis in order
to provide assistance with the preparation of operational procedures and guidelines, detailed terms
of reference, design and establishment of a monitoring system which would be used to follow up
on phaseout activities, and procurement of consultants and goods. The component would provide
consulting services, equipment and support staff to the OPIU for project management and project
identification. The OPIU would be responsible for the preparation of new projects (which may
also include demonstration components in new technologies not covered by this project), and
specifically, a feasibility study to identify immediate needs for an investment project which would
allow full conversion to CFC-free refrigerators. These new projects would be reviewed by the
NOC and the Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG - the Bank's technical ozone reviewing
and advising committee consisting of technical specialists in all the ODS technologies), and
submitted to the ECMF for the financing of incremental costs.
Project Costs and Financing
3.03    The estimated total project costs are US$2.32 million of which US$1.79 million would be financed
boy the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) grant; the balance of US$531,000 would be financed by the
participating industries and the Government of Tunisia (GOT). This was confirmed during appraisal. In
accordance with the guidelines issued by the ECMF which require that grants be provided to projects for
which the costs are not recovered within a two year period, the Government agreed that funds be awarded by
ANPE to the participating enterprises on a grant basis net of all taxes and duties. Assurances have been
obtained during Negotiations that all items to be financed by the project would be exempt from taxes and
dLuties.
3.04    Sub-grant agreements between ANPE and the recipient enterprises would be signed to formalize
tlhe making of grant proceeds available. The Government has submitted: (a) a draft model sub-grant
agreement between the participating refrigerator enterprise and ANPE prior to negotiations: and will submit
(b) the relevant signed sub-grant agreements prior to disbursement of grant funds to the counterpart
responsible for the implementation of the relevant project component. The details of Grant allocation
follow:



6
PROJECT    COMPONENT                                  GRANT                 GOTI   TOTAL
ELEMENT                                               ALLOCATION           Private
Sector
l                                       (US$)                 (US$)      (US$)
Institutional  OPIU and TA for Governmental Actions       290,000              190,000      480,000
Strengthening                                              _
Technology     Refrigeration:
lDevelopment
Development            HFC- 134a Replacement in           245,000              119,000      364,000
Domestic Refrigerators
Rigid Foam Blowing in Domestic     272,000             130,000      402,000
Refrigeration
Maintenance & Recycling            416,000              24,000      440,000
Training
Flexible Foam Blowing                      103,000              68,000      171,000
Aerosol Study, Demonstration & Training    264,000                          264,000
Subtotal Technology Development                          1,300,000            341,000      1,641,000
Contingencies (price and physical)                        200,000                           200,000
TOTAL                                                                         531,000     2,321,000
3.05    Disbursements for the grant are expected to be made along the following categories:
GRANT AMOUNT
(Expressed in             Percent of Expenditures to be
CATEGORY                            US$equivalent)             Financed
(1)    Equipment, Materials and         723,400                100 percent of foreign
supplies                                               expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(2)    Consultants' services, Training  866,600                100 percent
and operational services
(3)    Unallocated                      200,000
Total                          1,790,000



7
Project Implementation
3.06    The proposed project would be implemented over a period of three years. It is expected that it
would start in February 1994, be completed by June 30, 1997, and closed by December 31, 1997. ANPE
would be the executing agency for this project, by virtue of delegation by the Ministere de la Cooperation
Internationale et de l'Investissement de l'Exterieur (MCIIE). A diagram illustrating the Bank, recipient and
beneficiary relationship and proposed management structure is provided in Figure 2.
3.07   Implementation of this project would be carried out by the OPIU (para. 3.02(A)) to be established
within ANPE and financed by the Project. The Project Director would provide guidance and monitor the
five Project components through Component Coordinators with the assistance of a Project Manager. The
Project Manager would be responsible for overall coordination of Project activities, procurement of goods
and services for all project components and monitoring of accounts. During appraisal a Project Manager
was proposed by the ANPE and the Component Coordinators were identified by each lead enterprise. Prior
to negotiations. ANPE appointed a Project Director who will have overall responsibility for the Project. The
Project Manager, appointed under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, was formally appointed as a
condition of grant effectiveness.
3.08    The Project Director would have overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project. As
the initial project is a demonstration project, it is expected that following the successful demonstration of
C)DS phaseout technology, investment projects would be prepared. The OPIU would be responsible for
identifying and preparing future investment projects which could commence during project implementation.
Support for this activity would be obtained from the technical specialists during their periodic visits to
TIunisia to oversee the technical components. The NOC (para. 1.07) would be responsible for reviewing
project proposals and providing guidance on national priorities and recommended governmental actions.
Support for the development of OPIU and NOC procedural guidelines for carrying out delegated
responsibilities (as outlined in para. 1.07) would be obtained through the institutional specialist (para. 3.02
(A)).
Project Sustainability
3.09   By successfully demonstrating ODS-free technology in key industries, the project would open the
door to further private sector investment in non-ODS technology, particularly with the availability of
funding from MFMP to assist with incremental capital and operating costs associated with phasing out ODS
in forthcoming projects.
P'rocurement
3.10   Procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). The hiring of consultant services will be in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency (August 1981). Schedule B summarizes procurement arrangements under the Grant
Agreement. Procurement of goods and personnel which will not be financed by the grant (local
contribution) will be carried out according to standard government or enterprise practice.



8
3.11    Goods and services. To the extent possible, contracts for goods would be grouped to allow for the
procurement of larger packages. The bulk of the equipment procurement is expected to be for: (a)
up-grading of existing refrigeration systems (including testing laboratories); (b) modification of foaming
machines and replacement of injection pumps; (c) acquisition of a small number of computers, copying
machines, simple tools and materials; and (d) training by suppliers. Contracts larger than US$50,000 would
be procured on the basis of International Shopping (IS) with at least three price quotations from at least
three countries. Local Shopping would be applied for contracts up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$350,000 and would be based on at least three price quotations from local suppliers, to ensure
competitive prices. All initial contracts and subsequent contracts valued above US$50,000 would be subject
to prior review by the Bank.
3.12    Consultants' services for technical assistance, studies and training. The document- (terms of
reference and contracts) for training, studies or consulting services valued at more than US$1(0,dOO wo.l!d
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Consulting contracts, valued below US$100,000 equivalent would
be subject only to random post-review by the Bank and would be retained by the ANPE for review by World
Bank supervision missions. Terms of reference drafted by ANPE and approved by the Bank, would be
submitted in an annex to the contract with the selected consultants.
Disbursement
3.13    Role of the Executing Agency. Under the proposed project, and in accordance wit'h a Project
Agreement, ANPE would maintain all accounts and disbursement records, as part of its role as the executing
agency. Under a Grant Agreement between the Bank and MCIIE, ANPE, to be specified as the executing
agency, would make all disbursements related to the implementation of the five project components, keep
project accounts, prepare periodic project reports, arrange for the audit, and prepare new ODS phase-out
projects.
3.14    Because of the large number of small contracts which would be required, and to reduce the interval
between payment made by the beneficiaries and receipt of reimbursements from the Bank, a Special
Account would be established within the Central Bank of Tunisia from which ANPE would have the
authority to withdraw funds. It was confirmed. during negotiations. that a special account would be
established for the Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. After effectiveness and upon
the Recipient's request, the Bank would make an initial deposit up to an amount equivalent to four months of
estimated expenditures (US$175,000) and would replenish the Account monthly, or whenever one half of
the amount has been withdrawn. Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the usual
documentation required under Bank-financed projects. Project expenditures would be monitored by ANPE.
Figure 3 provides an overall diagram of the recommended flow of funds which was discussed during
appraisal. Payments would be made by the Central Bank following the submission of request for payment
by ANPE. Experience to date with the Central Bank of Tunisia and Bank projects has been very good with
few or no incidences of delayed payments.
3.15    Except for contracts requiring prior Bank review, disbursement would be made against a certified
statement of expenditure for which detailed documentation evidencing expenditures would be made
available for the required audit, and also for review by the Bank supervision missions. The financing
requests would be processed by the OPIU.
3.16    The allocation of grant funds and the disbursement percentages are summarized in Schedule B.
The text of the first draft Sub-grant agreement between ANPE and one of the participating enterprises can
be found in Annex 3. The disbursement categories to be used are (i) equipment, materials and supplies, and
(ii) consulting services, training and operational services. Under equipment would be items such as tools,



9
evacuation pumps, compressors, foaming machines, recycling machines, etc. Materials would include
refrigerants, polyols, lubricants, isocyanate etc. Supplies would include office furniture, computers and
printers, photocopier etc. The second category would include all training, fees for technical assistance,
office and car rental, seminars, incentive bonus workshops, telephone and fax expenses, etc.
Accounts and Audits
317    An independent Auditor, acceptable to the Bank, would: (a) audit ANPE Project component
accounts; (b) apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank that conform to generally
accepted auditing practices; (c) carry-out auditing work in a timely manner (an annual report would be
presented no later than six months after the end of each calendar year); and (d) render an audit opinion not
later than six months after each fiscal year. The Auditor would provide preliminary assistance in financial
management and application of modem auditing procedures to ANPE staff, including assistance in
setting-up the format of the Project accounts, as part of its strengthening of the ANPE. Assurances to this
effect was obtained during Negotiations.
Supervision
318     Supervision by a Bank team will take place semi-annually following the submission of the
progress report. The supervision missions would be composed of the task manager, at least one financial
specialist, to be supported by one ODS or other specialists as needed, and will require about 15 staffweeks
(sws) in the first year, 10 sws thereafter. During the first supervision mission a project launch seminar
would take place at the request of the Government in order to train the project participants in Bank and
Mvlontreal Protocol project preparation and implementation procedures.
Environmental Aspects
3.19    While the overall impacts of the project are environmentally positive from a global perspective, it
would be necessary to address potential local issues. Therefore, the project has been classified, according to
Operational Directive 4.01, as "B", requiring limited environmental analysis. All new substances introduced
to the Tunisian industries would have to follow the safety guidelines recommended by the manufacturers
a and conform to international safety standards. The main issues to be addressed are related to worker health,
safety and awareness in the aerosol and foam industries which may be using flammable and potentially toxic
gases,cyclopentane, LPG and MeCl. Regarding the use of MeCl as a blowing agent for the flexible foam
component, health and safety measures would have to comply with international standards. Safety measures
related to the present use of LPG as a propellant would be investigated during the aerosol study and
strengthened as necessary with any new proposals for the use of LPG. Use of cyclopentane as a foam
blowing agent would require the support of a technology partner experience in the safe use of cyclopentane,
or a similar agent, for rigid foam applications.
IV. Expected Benefits And Risks
Project Benefits
4.01    The project's main benefit would be to introduce ODS replacement technology into the three main
ODS consuming sectors in Tunisia, while also providing institutional strengthening to continue with
Protocol activities in order to completely phaseout the use of ODSs. The project would demonstrate the
technical feasibility of ODS-free technology in the three largest ODS using sectors in Tunisia. Successful
demonstration and subsequent application (through investment financing of these technologies within the



10
participating industries would lead to a reduction in CFC consumption by approximately 33 percent.
Replication of this technology throughout these sectors by the financing of subsequent investment projects
(which can be done with the assistance of the MFMP) would lead to a decrease in ODS consumption by
approximately 97 percent.
4.02    By invoking an early ODS phaseout schedule, Tunisia is eligible to seek and receive assistance
from the MFMP, thus reducing the burden on the government, industries, and ultimately consumers of
financing incremental costs.
Project Risks and Mitigation
4.03    There are three main project risks to consider: (a) a possible delaY in implementing start up
activities due to ANPE's lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, with a resultant delay in adopting the
recommended accelerated phaseout schedule. This would be mitigated by: (i) securing an institutional
specialist to assist with the preparation of detailed TORs, procurement documents, work plans, and
procedural guidelines for the OPIU and NOC; and (ii) presenting a project launch seminar during the first
supervision mission following grant signing in order to familiarize project participants with Bank and
Montreal Protocol guidelines and procedures for project preparation and implementation; (b) the reluctance
of manufacturers to cooperate with ANPE in the sharing of ozone friendly technology throughout the
relevant sectors. This would be mitigated by the signing of the sub-grant agreements which would require
the transfer of technology - obtained through OTF financing - between enterprises, signatures would be
required for grant effectiveness; and (c) the difficulty in enforcing an accreditation system in practice given
that there is no present system for monitoring refrigeration technician activities and qualifications. This
would be partly mitigated by the provision of training courses to all qualified candidates prior to enforcing
the system, and by putting in place regulation of ODS distributors and a monitoring program of ODS-using
industries.
V. Assurances. Conditions. Agreements And Recommendation
5.01    As conditions of negotiation:
(a) The Government will submit a draft sub-grant agreement between the refrigerator
manufacturer and ANPE. (para. 3.04).
(b)  The Project Director will have been nominated (para. 3.07)
5.02    Assurances obtained from the Republic of Tunisia at negotiations:
(a)  The Government shall finalize and submit the CP to the ECMF not later than December 31,
1994. (para. 2.02)
(b)  The recommendations in the CP will be incorporated into the EAP. (para. 2.03)
(c)  All items financed by the project are exempt from taxes and duties. (para. 3.03)
(d)  Procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992).(para. 3.11)



11
(e)  The hiring of consultant services will be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
198 1).(para. 3.11)
(f)  A special account will be established within the Central Bank of Tunisia for the Project
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.(para. 3.15)
(g)  An independent auditor will be retained to assist ANPE in financial management and
application of modem auditing procedures to the project. The special account will be audited
annually and an audit report submitted to the trustee within six months after each fiscal
year.(para. 3.18)
(h)  The OPIU will be maintained throughout the period of project implementation (Sched. 2.2 of
Project Agreement)
5.03    Agreements to be Reached.   The following conditions were agreed with the Government
during appraisal:
(a) For effectiveness: the Project Manager will have been appointed.
(b)  For disbursement of each component: Sub-grant agreements between ANPE and the
participating enterprise or institutions would be signed (para. 3.03) prior to disbursement for
the relevant Project component.



12
Schedule A
Republic of Tunisia
Demonstration Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Project Costs and Financing Plan
Project Component          Foreign           Local                        Total
- ----------------- US$ thousand -----------
Institutional Strengthening  35                445                         480
HFC-134a Replacement in
Domestic Refrigerators     151                213                         364
Rigid Foam Blowing in
Domestic Refrigerators     244                158                         402
Maintenance and Recycling
Training                   189                251                         440
Flexible Foam Blowing       80                 91                          171
Aerosol Study, Demonstration
and Training               264                 0                          264
Contingencies               88                  112                        200
(price and physical)
TOTAL                      1,051               1,270                      2,321



13
Schedule B
Page I of 3
Republic of Tunisia
Demonstration Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Procurement Methods and Disbursement Schedules
The Pr6sident Directeur Gen6ral (PDG) of ANPE, through the Project Director heading the Ozone
Project Implementation Unit (OPIU), would be responsible for procurement. Actual procurement would be
carried out by the Project Manager who would report to the Project Director. It has been agreed that an
arrangement would be made with the Government which would provide the services of a procurement
specialist from within the MEAT or another Ministry familiar with Bank procurement procedures. It is not
expected that contracts would exceed US$200,000.
Goods
(a)  Contracts with an aggregate amount up to US$50,000 would be procured through local
shopping (LS) on the basis of at least three quotations.
(b)  Contracts above US$50,000 would be procured through international shopping (IS) on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers from
at least two countries; and
(c)  All contracts whose value exceeds US$50,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank
in order to verify compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Technical Assistance and Consultants
(a)  all consultants would be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants (August 1981);
(b)  all initial contracts of US$5,000 or more under each component and all contracts over
US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank; and
(c)  contracts of less than US$100,000 would require only Bank review of TORs.



14
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
Procurement Methods
Category                 Other                       N.B.F. Total
------------------ (US$ thousand) -----------------
Goods                       1,079'                   1,079
(774)2                  (774)
TA                           8163                     816
(816)                   (816)
Operating Costs              2724                     272
(192)                   (192)
Local Salaries               1545                     154
TOTAL                       2,321                     2,321
(1,790)                  (1,790)
'/It is expected that all procurement for equipment will be made through International or Local Shopping. The International
Shopping proportion is estimated to be about US$627,000 for about 6 - 10 contracts..
21 Numbers in parentheses represent portions financed by the grant.
3/Consultants will be procured using World Bank Guidelines.
4/ This will include O&M, equipment rental, training, seminars, meetings, utilities, telecommunications, official travel and is eligible
for financing under Montreal Protocol guidelines.
5/ Includes actual salaries paid for project director , secretary, accountant and driver.



15
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
Procurement Methods and Disbursement Schedules
Estimated Disbursements
Component             FY95              FY96              FY97
HFC-134a               318                80                0
Refrigerator          (22 1)6            (55)              (0)
Prototypes
Rigid Foam             405                35                0
Conversion             (281)             (25)              (0)
Demonstration
Technician             345               104               33
Training              (334)             (102)              (32)
Flexible Foam           143              44                 0
Conversion             (89)              (27)              (0)
Demonstration
Aerosol Study &        218               71                 0
Conversion             (218)             (71)              (0)
Institutional          326               138               61
Strengthening          (208)             (87)             (40)
Cumulative             1920             2227              2321
(1460)           (1718)            (1790)
6I Amounts in parentheses represent grant disbursements.



16
Schedule C
Republic of Tunisia
Demonstration Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time Taken to Prepare                           20 months
(b)    Prepared By:                                    GOT
(c)    First Bank Mission:                             April 1992
(d)    MFMP Approval:                                  May & October 1992
(e)    Appraisal:                                      October 1993
(f)    Negotiations:                                   February - March 1994
(g)    Bank Approval:                                  June 1994
(h)    Planned Signing:                                June 1994
(i)    Planned Effectiveness:                          August 1994
(j)    Planned Completion:                             June 1997



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE PHASEOUT OF
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PROJECT ANNEXES






17
Annex 1
TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Component 1 - Demonstration of prototypes for domestic refrigeration using HFC-134a
1. Component Description
]Background
The domestic refrigerator industry in Tunisia produced over 300,000 units in 1991, two thirds of
which were exported. This production required the use of imported refrigerants, compressors, and other
key components. Production operations during the year 1991 consumed about 60 tons of CFC-12,
corresponding to six percent of the total Tunisian ODS consumption.
The refrigerant HFC-134a has been judged by the Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) to be
commercially proven and is emerging as the non-ODS refrigerant of choice in the US, Japan, and Europe.
Hydrocarbon (HC) refrigerants are also considered to be acceptable for properly designed small
refrigerators. It is generally foreseen that most major producers in developed countries will have converted
ito HFC-134a refrigerant by 1996. HC refrigerants will likely find application in small refrigerators in
Europe. With the ready availability of refrigerants, lubricants and components for HFC-134a, using this
technology becomes a realistic and viable option for production of standard sized refrigerators in Tunisia.
The Copenhagen amendments under the Montreal Protocol, together with market forces in Tunisia's
primary export market (Europe) will force Tunisian refrigerator producers to adopt ODS-free refrigeration
circuit technology for their exported units by 1996. The Tunisian Goveniment's Country Program for ODS
Phaseout includes the recommendation that the production of CFC containing refrigerators be phased out by
January 1st, 1996.
A period of up to two years would be required for redesign, prototype production and testing before
full scale commercial production of HFC-134a based refrigerators could commence.  Hence, a
demonstration project (Phase I) designed to carry out these preliminary steps is presented here.
Purpose of the component
The purpose of the component is to introduce HFC-134a technology to replace CFC-12 refrigerant
in domestic refrigerators and to provide support for the testing of new HFC-134a refrigerator models
manufactured in Tunisia.
The objective would be achieved through engineering assistance and testing of the HFC-134a
refrigerator units made with local materials and produced in local manufacturing facilities.



18
Component Participants
The component is proposed to be implemented by the Tabrid Group as this company develops its
own refrigerator designs, is the dominant manufacturer in the local market, and is the major Tunisian
exporter of refrigerators.
Foreign-owned domestic refrigerator manufacturers (smaller production volume) in Tunisia produce
under license from multinational companies and may develop
similar programs in cooperation with their licensor.
Component Elements
The component comprises the following elements:
engineering support in the form of international consultant(s) with expertise in refrigeration
technology for HFC-134a (to be selected by Tabrid) for review of the detailed project program,
monitoring of progress through four (4) technical visits and evaluation of results;
technical assistance to develop and test three refrigerator models designed for HFC- 134a refrigerant
at Tabrid.
The component would be carried out in the following phases:
- phase A: detailed planning: work plan, list of equipment, and detailed budget for equipment and
testing facility would be prepared by Tabrid with technical support. The work plan would be
consistent with the "Criteria for Development of Compressor and Appliance Projects" as prepared
by the OORG Technical Advisors.
-  hase B: design. development and procurement: development of HFC-134a refrigeration circuit
design for 2-3 refrigerator models with support from technical experts and compressor
manufacturer(s).  Setting up of testing facility and procurement of testing equi-   ' and
refrigeration circuit components.
-phase C: prototype production and testing: testing of production of each model prototype in a small
test series (5-10 units), energy consumption and reliability testing, and adaptation of new
compressors for production. Identification of source of refrigerant and lubricating oil, and ancillary
components.
phase D: evaluation and seminar: evaluation of non-proprietary project components with results of
testing to be presented in a seminar for 20-30 representatives of the refrigeration sector in order to
disseminate information throughout the sector on CFC-replacement options for refrigerant and for
rigid foam insulation (to be carried out jointly with the rigid foam component described in this
Annex). The seminar is to be conducted within 60 days of completion of Phase C: prototype
production and testing.



19
Source of Assistance
The source of the knowledge base for HFC-134a refrigeration technology would be obtained from
compressor manufacturers and engineering consultants, familiar with ODS replacement technology, in
collaboration with Tabrid. Assistance from the supplier of the data acquisition system (testing and quality
control) would also be required. In addition, the international consultant(s) would be required to review,
monitor and provide advice to the component coordinator. The consultant would assist the coordinator in
preparing a report on component progress to the Project Manager.
2. Component Execution
Time Schedule
This component is proposed to start during the 1st quarter of CY1994 in order for Tabrid to
commence production of new ODS-free refrigerators by 1996.
The planned duration of the component phases is:
A: Detailed planning                    0.2 year
B: Design, procurement, production      0.3 year
C: Carrying out test program            0.5 year
D: Evaluation                           0.2 year
Total:       1.2 years
!Component Organization and Management
The component would be carried out within the organization of Tabrid. Tabrid has appointed a
component coordinator, who would be responsible for reporting regularly (quarterly) on component
progress to the Project Manager. The Component Coordinator would be responsible for assisting the Project
Manager in the presentation of results from the testing of new non-ODS refrigerator models to other
refrigerator manufacturers in Tunisia.
The component would be initiated by the Project Director under the Agence Nationale pour la
Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE), who would contract the international consultant(s) and commission
Tabrid to prepare the detailed plan and budget (phase A).
At the end of each year, Tabrid shall submit a report containing an evaluation of the results
obtained, a review of difficulties encountered and how these were resolved, an account for expenses, and an
adjusted plan and budget for the following year. The report would be reviewed by the independent
consultant, who would advise the Project Manager on its acceptability according to Montreal Protocol
Executive Committee funding guidelines. The consultant would also carry out a technical audit at Tabrid
once a year.
3. Benefits of the Component
This component would demonstrate the available technology for the replacement of CFC-12 with
HFC- 134a under local Tunisian conditions. Once applied on a production level, the total phaseout of 60
tons/year CFC-12 refrigerant would be achieved. The stock of new refrigerators in Tunisia would then start
to be replaced by HFC-134a units, thereby minimizing the need for forced scrapping of existing refrigerator
units as the Montreal Protocol target for phaseout is approached.



20
Component 2 - Demonstration of conversion to non-CFC rigid foam technology in the domestic
refrigeration sector
1. Component Description
Background
In 1991, the Tunisian domestic and commercial refrigeration industry used 175 tons of CFC- 11 as blowing
agent for rigid foam insulation, the greatest consumption was in the domestic sector. This corresponds to 16
percent of total ODS consumption in Tunisia. Existing alternatives which are options to reduce or eliminate
the consumption of regulated CFCs in rigid foam applications include:
A.    In the short term, replacing 50 percent of CFC-11 consumption with water/CO2 blowing.
This technology is commercially proven and has been used by European manufacturers for
2-4 years. Their experience shows that the 3-8 percent loss in insulation thermal efficiency
can be compensated for with formulation and procedural adjustments and minor redesigns
of the refrigerator.
B.    Replacing 100 percent of CFC-11, as a second stage, with a mixture of HCFC-142b/22
which is also a commercially proven technology. This change would reduce insulation
efficiency and may require increasing the thickness of the refrigerator wall to achieve
proper refrigerator performance and thermal efficiency.
C.    Replacing 100 percent of CFC-1 1 directly with 100 percent HCFC-14 1b. This option may
provide a slightly better thermal efficiency than other non-CFC options, but awaits
resolution of outstanding technical issues pertaining to liner compatibility.
D.    Replacing 100 percent of CFC-1 1 with CO2 given off from the water/isocyanate reaction.
This formulation produces an insulation which has inferior structural and thermal efficiency
characteristics but may find application in cold food carts and buffet's.
E.    As a full zero-ODP option, use of cyclopentane blowing agent following adoption of or in
lieu of other options. While this is the most promising of the zero-ODP technologies, it
must take proper account of relevant safety measures. The support of a technology partner
experienced in the safe use of cyclopentane blowing agents for rigid foam applications
would be required for implementation.
The application of these foam formulation technologies may require some modification or
replacement of existing foam injection machines
Tabrid has elected to go forward with direct conversion to a non-CFC blowing agent based on
preliminary tests carried out with a foam supplier. Tabrid is planning to test both HCFC-142bW22 and
HCFC-141b in order to determine which technology is best suited for the Tunisian environment. A zero
ODP technology would be adopted if and when it is possible to safely introduce this technology, with the
appropriate technology transfer support.
Because complete phaseout of CFCs in domestic refrigerators is recommended by 1996, this
component, which is aimed at replacing CFC- 11 as a foam blowing agent, must be given high priority.



21
Purpose of the Component
The purpose of the component is to test methods of conversion to CFC-free refrigerator insulation
technology. In conjunction with the refrigerant project component (conversion of refrigeration circuit to
HFC-134a) this component would enable Tabrid to produce a totally CFC free refrigerator for marketing in
the EEC. This is considered vital to the company's future.
The objective of the component would be achieved through technical support and demonstration of
the selected method of technology.
.Component Participants
'The component would involve the main domestic refrigerator manufacturers, TABRID with its ten
production lines and Grands Ateliers du Nord (GAN), with its three production lines.
!Component Elements
'The component would be carried out in the following phases:
phase A: seminar and consultations: a seminar on low and zero CFC technology options for the
foam sector is to be presented in coordination with the refrigeration seminar in Component 1. The
National Ozone Committee (NOC) initiatives for support of conversation projects are also to be
discussed. The seminar is to be supplemented by consultations with representatives of least (3)
leading foam technology suppliers.
-  hase B: conversion: modification/replacement of foaming machinery by the manufacturers in
collaboration with the suppliers of foam formulations. Short term (reduced CFC) and long term
(zero ODP) options would be considered in the selection of any new foaming machinery. The
cornversion would be coordinated with the refrigerant component and would be phased to test
pcrformance of the chosen technologies under Tunisian conditions prior to full implementation of
the conversion.
Source Assistance
The main source of assistance would be the suppliers of insulation foam formulations with
additional support from the producers of foaming equipment.
Assistance would also be required from an outside international consultant(s) with relevant
background, who shall assist the Project Manager in negotiations with the manufacturers, review of
proposals and monitoring of modifications.
2. Component Execution
Tlime Schedule
The component should be initiated immediately. The planned duration of the component phases is:
-     A: seminar and consultations                   0.3 year
-     B: conversion                                  1.2 year
Total                                          1.5 years



22
Component Organization and Management
The component would be initiated and monitored by the Project Director in collaboration with the
Association of Domestic Appliance Manufacturers.
The conversion shall be organized by the participating manufacturers, who have appointed a
component coordinator responsible for reporting to the Project Manager under ANPE. Each manufacturer is
to develop - in collaboration with his supplier of foam systems - a conversion program with a budget to be
submitted to the Project Manager. After review by the consultant, component implementation would
proceed.
3. Benefits of the Component
As a result of the component, the consumption of regulated CFC for rigid foam insulation of
appliances would be reduced over a 1-2 year period from the present level of 175 tons/year, and could be
completely eliminated by 1995/96.



23
Component 3 - Maintenance of Domestic. Commercial and Industrial Refrigerators
1. Project Description
Background
In 1991, there were about 800,000 domestic refrigerators in use in Tunisia containing a total of
about 200 tons of CFC-12 refrigerant. Servicing accounted for an estimated consumption of 140 tons of
CFC-12, corresponding to 12 percent of the country's total ODS use. There is also an important and
growing number of large commercial and industrial refrigeration systems in Tunisia using CFC refrigerants
for food display, processing and cold storage, central air conditioning and other applications. It is estimated
that 40 tons of CFC were used in 1991 for installation and servicing of these units (about 4 percent of the
country's total ODS use).
Service companies' experience indicates that the average domestic refrigerator is serviced every 7-
10 years (either to replace a failed compressor or to fix a major leak in the refrigeration circuit) and that on
the average 1 kg CFC is used on each servicing (150-250 g to replace the original refrigerant charge and the
balance for flushing, purging, and leak testing).
The technique of using CFC-12 to flush refrigerator circuits following service repair indicates that
100 tonnes of CFC-12 per year is needlessly exhausted into the atmosphere during repair work. This
consumption can be eliminated if the following improved procedures are adopted:
(a)    Usage of nitrogen instead of CFC for flushing of the circuits. As the cost for nitrogen is well below
the cost for CFC, this procedural change can be economically viable, and can be carried out at most
repair locations. The use of nitrogen for purging is a well established technique in Europe and
elsewhere.
(b)    Recycling of refrigerants by using recovery and recycling machines. This procedure is primarily
recommended for large system servicing and for repairs carried out under workshop conditions.
Servicing of domestic refrigerators is carried out at manufacturer's service workshops (located at the
production plants and at licensed workshops in major cities), independent workshops and in owners' homes.
The work is carried out by refrigeration technicians or by personnel engaged in general servicing of
household appliances.
It is estimated that domestic refrigerator repairs involving recharging of refrigerant represents about
800 man-years annually. As some of the personnel do other jobs as well, it is estimated that about 2000
persons are engaged in this activity.
Large commercial and industrial units are installed and serviced with the participation of
refrigeration technicians. Training of these technicians in improved servicing practices for handling CFC
refrigerants, and in non-CFC refrigeration technologies including retrofitting, would reduce the consumption
of CFC gases and facilitate the introduction of ozone friendly refrigeration technology in the commercial
and industrial sectors.
The consumption of CFC can be reduced through a training program in which improved servicing
practices and refrigerant recycling techniques are taught. A realistic goal for the program would be to reach
30 percent of the estimated workforce over a 3 year period. As the improved techniques are profitable in
themselves, their use can be expected to spread further through word of mouth.



24
Purpose of the Component
The purpose of the component is to improve the servicing and repair procedures for domestic
refrigeration, to increase awareness of the ozone issue among service personnel, and to reduce the use of
CFC-12 through recycling.
The objective would be achieved through a study, a training program, technical assistance, and the
financing of recycling equipment.
Component Elements
The component comprises the following elements:
-      an initial study describing the present domestic refrigerator service sector and providing a detailed
plan for the actual training;
a training program. Three (3) Tunisian refrigeration instructors would receive intensive training in
recycling, recovery, improved service procedures etc. at an established training center abroad (e.g.
Center de Thermique de l'INSA de Lyon). Instruction would be in French. Consideration would be
given to adding a fourth instructor if budgetary constraints permit.
The instructors would provide a series of courses to train about 300 practicing refrigeration
technicians per year in the above skills. It is anticipated that a certificate would be issued to each
technician upon completion of the course as part of a national accreditation system.
The training program would comprise:
(i)    an overview of the contribution made by CFC refrigerants to ozone depletion and global
warming and the environmental and economic reasons why it is necessary to eliminate their
use as soon as possible;
(ii)   techniques of refrigerant recovery and the use of recycling machines. The circumstances in
which it is acceptable to use recycling machines (as opposed to a central reclamation plant,
not currently planned for Tunisia) to clean refrigerant would be clarified;
(iii)   methods of carrying out standard service procedures with a minimum of refrigerant loss;
and
(iv)   techniques for retrofitting CFC based equipment with CFC alternatives. This would be
demonstrated on refrigeration systems used for training by the refrigeration training
establishments participating in the program.
technical assistance from an institution which has already developed a program on proper servicing
practices. This would be the establishment providing teacher training described above  The
component coordinator would prepare the preliminary study, propose a training plan, organize
instruction abroad, suggest teaching materials, and monitor the component at regular intervals; and



25
demonstration of recycling equipment. It is estimated that ten to fifteen (10 - 15) refrigerant
recycling machines and/or pumps would be purchased by the project (depending upon the program
design based on a study in Phase A below). Five (5) of these machines would be distributed on a
rotational basis to a range of refrigeration repair businesses identified in the initial study described
above. Their use would be monitored (in terms of money saved as a result of re-using CFC
refrigerant) by the component coordinator for 1-2 years. At the end of this period the results would
be evaluated for cost effectiveness. A series of seminars organized by the coordinator would be
planned to transfer the knowledge gained to non-participating businesses.
The component would be carried out in the following phases:
phase A: study and detailed planning: a detailed description of the service sector for domestic,
commercial and industrial refrigerators, a registration of service workshops, tabulation of the
number and education of employees, and types of repairs based on a series of interviews (number
and age of units serviced, use of CFC, reason for recharging, where repairs take place, etc.).
Further, the study would review existing authorization schemes for servicing companies and
personnel (if any), and recommend a suitable arrangement for such a scheme. On the basis of the
study, a detailed plan for the actual training would be prepared. During phase A, employment
procedures for the instructors or selected technicians would be initiated.
Detailed planning would consider the recycle/recovery experiences of similar programs in
developed as well as in developing countries.
Having obtained a profile of the refrigeration service industry, the study would also comment on the
a priori viability of a central reclamation scheme for Tunisia.
phase B: training of instructors/technicians: it is planned to train three to four instructors as
described above under training. Some would be refrigeration instructors currently teaching in
Tunisian refrigeration schools, others would be recruited from the local pool of experienced and
practicing refrigeration technicians.
phase C: training program: training would be offered as a 2 week workshop course with classroom
instruction, including recycling techniques and retrofit techniques as described above under training.
Assuming that each instructor can conduct 16 on-the-job courses per year with 6-7 students, it is
tentatively estimated that 600 service workers would pass the ODS training courses over the
duration of the program. This number could be increased depending on contributions from the
Tunisian Government through its educational institutions.
phase D: evaluation and follow-up: at the end of the two year training program, a final evaluation
report would be written by the coordinator, at which time it would be considered whether and how
the program may be extended to cover refrigeration technicians who have not yet participated in the
course.
Component Participants
The refrigeration service businesses participating in the recycling equipment demonstration program
described above would be identified during the initial study.



26
The Tabrid Group has an extensive after sales repair and service network. It is expected that they
would be an active participant in the training program, and possibly be one of the participants in the
demonstration program above.
Source of Assistance
Technical assistance in providing training manuals and other teaching materials is required from the
manufacturers of the recycling machines. It is therefore essential that these resource needs are detailed in
the contracts between the supplier and Tabrid. The recycling machines must be imported. There are several
companies in Europe, USA and Asia which supply recycling machines of various types and quality. It is
essential that the machines meet accepted international standards both in terms of manufacture and
performance (the relevant standards are considered to be SAE 1990 and 1991).
Duties of Coordinator
The duties of the coordinator consist of:
-      carrying out an initial service sector study (with assistance of experts);
detailed planning of technician training program including arrangements for overseas
instructor training. Assessment of further training requirements at end of component;
-      ongoing evaluation of the training program and regular reporting to project manager;
-      supervision of recycling machine demonstration program and organization of promotional
seminars at end of component.
2. Component Execution
Time Schedule
The component is proposed to start early 1994. The planned duration of the project phases is:
-      A: study and detailed planning            0.3 year
-      B: training of instructors                0.5 year
-      C: training program/demo. program         2.0 years
-      D: evaluation and follow-up               0.2 year
Total                                     3.0 years
Component Organization and Management
The training program would be coordinated by the component coordinator who would report
regularly to the Project Manager.
The component would be initiated by the Project Director, who would employ the coordinator as
well as the team of instructors. The Project Manager would procure equipment and training materials with
support from the component coordinator.
Evaluation of the training program would be done periodically to enable adjustment of the
component if necessary.



27
3. Benefits of the Component
The current servicing practices indicate that up to 100 tons/year of CFC- 12 can be saved (given the
present stock of refrigerators) by shifting from CFC-12 to nitrogen for flushing and by recovery and
recycling CFC released during purging and leak testing. In practice, the expected benefit of the project is
estimated to be around 25 tons in the first year of CFC not wasted through CFC flushing. As the practice is
spread through out the sector the impact would naturally increase.



28
Conmponent 4 - Technical Seminar. Consultations and Demonstration in the Flexible Foam Sector
1. Component Description
Background
The manufacturers of mattresses, furniture cushioning and similar flexible foam products and rigid
insulation foam in Tunisia used approximately 400 tons/year of CFC-1 1 as foam blowing agent in 1991.
This corresponds to 37 percent of total ODS consumption in Tunisia. The purpose of the CFC in the
manufacturing process is to facilitate the production of the lighter (and less durable foam) qualities used for
low cost products.
Standard foam formulations are presently available using new polyols suitable for using CO2 from
the waterfisocyanate reaction as the sole foaming agent.
This allows CFC-free production of flexible foam of any specification in the range 18-50 kg/m3 (medium
and high density foam). The production can be carried out with the existing slab stock production machines
operated in Tunisia. The C02/water blowing technique, however, cannot be used for the production of the
low density (<18 kg/m3) foam which comprises about 70 percent of the flexible foam market. Methylene
chloride, which is now being used successfully throughout Europe and the US, has been proposed as the
foaming agent for this product. The main expense associated with this conversion would be the acquisition
of safety equipment. The technique of safe foaming with methylene chloride would be demonstrated first at
one selected foam manufacturer (Sotumous).
Purpose of the Component
The purpose of the component is to facilitate the conversion to CFC free technology in one selected
manufacturer, Sotumous, which would serve as a demonstration site for other flexible foam manufacturers.
Methylene chloride may also be used for high density foam production for manufacturers which do not
utilize high pressure pumps.
The project would be to achieve the objective through technical assistance and production
demonstrations.
Component Elements
technical assistance to the participating manufacturer of flexible foam in the form of a study and
consultation abroad. Individual consultations to other manufacturers would be provided by the
component coordinator on options for CFC replacement technology.
investment in safety equipment required for the conversion of one plant to 100 percent methylene
chloride to serve as a demonstration of set up, worker awareness and safety training.
demonstration to test the quality and production of flexible foam (low and high density) using the
methylene chloride foaming agent.



29
The component would be carried out in the following phases:
-     phase A: Detailed Preparation - Fact finding field trip in order to decide on equipment to be used;
preparation of detailed equipment list; planning for installations of equipment to ensure minimum
disruption of production.
-     phase B: Acquisition and installation of equipment, and preparation of worker safety and awareness
seminars for all Sotomous workers and management personnel. Safety equipment consists of a
complete enclosure for the production line and a large number of extraction fans over the foaming
area and foam storage area.
Project Participants
The component participant, Sotumous is one of the major manufacturers of flexible foam products
in Tunisia and would be the first to demonstrate the technique of using methylene chloride and the
associated safety equipment. The component coordinator would provide information regarding conversion
to the other major manufacturers of flexible foam products in Tunisia.
Source of Assistance
The main source of assistance would be the suppliers of flexible foam formulations and suppliers of
safety equipment.
Assistance would also be provided by a fact-finding mission and participation in a training course in
alternative flexible foam technology. The coordinator would assist the Project Manager with technical
seminars, negotiations with other manufacturers, review of future proposals and monitoring of flexible foam
conversion projects.
2. Project Execution
Time Schedule
The component is proposed to start in the 1st quarter of 1994. The duration of the project phases is
expected to be:
-     A: Detailed Preparation                         0.3 year
-     B: Acquisition and Installation of Equipment    0.5 year
-     C: Test Production and production demonstration  0.5 year
-     D: Evaluation                                   0.2 year
Total                                   1.5 year
Project Organization and Management
Testing of foam production would be organized by the manufacturer, who has appointed a
component coordinator responsible for selecting equipment, carrying out tests, giving seminars on worker
safety and reporting to the Project Manager.



30
It is expected that other manufacturers may then develop - in collaboration with a supplier of foam
systems - a test production project component with a budget to be submitted to the Project Manager under a
second project to be funded by the MF. After review by an external expert, the 2nd component could be
approved and submitted to the MPEC for approval of financing.
3. Benefits of the Component
As a result of the component, the consumption of ODS in Tunisia would be reduced in Sotumous by
32 tons/year of CFC- 11 which is the present amount released to the atmosphere from flexible foam blowing
processes. The component would demonstrate the use of MeCI in the flexible foam sector which, as a
whole, utilizes 400 tons/year of CFC- 11.



31
Component 5 - Study. Technical Seminars and Demonstration of Conversion in the Aerosol Sector
1. Component Description
Background
The aerosol industry in Tunisia used 230 tons of CFC in 1991 for the production of aerosol spray
products. This corresponds to 21 percent of total ODS consumption in Tunisia. The CFC serves as
propellant for the active ingredient in the product.
A variety of alternatives is available to replace CFCs in specific products:
LPG, DME, compressed gases, HFCs, and other replacement propellants;
pump sprays, bag cans;
solid sticks, roll-ons, brushes, and other non-aerosol technologies.
Adoption of a particular option, in most cases, involves added expenses such as safety precautions,
modification or replacement of can filling equipment, and/or plant relocation.
Several industrialized countries banned CFC for aerosols more than a decade ago, and now there is a
vast amount of experience on selecting suitable non-CFC technology for specific applications. Somre of the
options, such as replacing CFC with LPG or CO2 where this is acceptable, are actually cheaper than the CFC
solution.
In Tunisia, the total estimated production of aerosol sprays in 1992 was 1,812,500 cans (equivalent
to 270 tons CFC-12/yr'). Eighty percent of this production was distributed as follows under the major
manufacturers:
Enterprise                 Cans/yr             Tons CFC-12/yr'
Judy                       500,000                    75
Codepar                    300,000                    45
Proxim/Chimap              250,000                    38
Lipp l'Oreal               200,000                    30
Floreal                    200.000                    30
TOTAL                    1,450,000                   218
Based on infornation obtained during pre-appraisal, all but Judy have experience with conversion to
a non-ODS propellent. This represents about 950,000 cans per year (143 tons/yr) or about 52 percent of- ths
production of spray cans. This corresponds proportionally to the amount of CFC consumed in the
manufacture of propellent for filling the cans. Therefore, in the aerosol sector, Judy is the source of
approximately 28 percent of CFC consumption while smaller artisanal manufacturers account for about 20
percent (54 tons/year). This suggests that about 48 percent of 1992 usage remains to be phased out.
'Based on the average content of 150g CFC-12/can.



32
Purpose of the Component
The purpose of the component is to review the CFC usage status of the aerosol sector and to assist
the remaining aerosol product manufacturers in selection and demonstration of the most appropriate ODS-
free technology.
The component objective would be achieved primarily through technical assistance and
demonstration.
Component Elements
The component comprises the following elements:
-      technical support for a study on CFC-free options already in use in Tunisia and examination of the
options which may be feasible for supporting the conversion of remaining users of CFC propellants.
The results of the study would be shared through a seminar on CFC-free options for aerosol
manufacturers and consultations on appropriate technology for individual manufacturers;
-      technical support to demonstrate conversion using technology selected on the basis of the study.
The component would be carried out in the following phases:
- phase A: study of the aerosol sector in Tunisia to examine the present situation regarding conversion
to non-ODP propellants (which enterprises have converted, type of non-ODP technology selected,
types of aerosol products used, degree of success of conversion, issues to be addressed) in order to
select and propose the optimal aerosol conversion technology for the remaining large manufacturer,
Judy, and the smaller individual manufacturers. The study would also examine the possible use of
financial instruments to enable all remaining aerosol manufacturers to convert to non-ODS products
earlier than agreed upon in the Montreal Protocol for developing countries2. The final phase of the
study would be to design seminars to be given to representatives of the aerosol sector.
phase B: seminars and assistance with the design of subprojects would be provided for all (small
and large) aerosol fillers throughout Tunisia in which participants would design demonstration
projects for CFC replacement or chose altemative compensation packages as recommended based
on the results of the study. The preparation of these subprojects would serve as models for the
Tunisians in project preparation and would be evaluated during the first supervision mission.
phase C: demonstration of conversion to non-ODS propellants would involve the application of and
training for safety measures to be applied with the use of LPGs or another selected replacement
technology, and financial mechanisms necessary for phasing out small producers. This would be
followed by an evaluation.
2 These small aerosol producers use small amounts of CFC-12 which would deplete stocks of this fluid at a time of
increasing shortage. Eliminating its use by small aerosol producers would release more for use in refrigeration where there is
no straightforward alternative, e.g. re-charging domestic refrigerators. The results of the study would be presented by the
Component Coordinator in the form of seminars and consultations to the these remaining small CFC-using aerosol
producers.



33
Project Participants
T'he project participants would include Judy, a representative for the smaller aerosol manufacturers, and the
current manufacturers of non-CFC aerosol products in Tunisia.
Source of Assistance
Akssistance would be required from an international consultant(s) with relevant background in the aerosol
sector and experience in developing countries. The expert would advise the Coordinator on preparation
needed for the study, a technical introduction seminar, individual consultations, and preparation of proposals
for future project components which can be submitted for funding (in compliance with MPEC criteria) in
the second phase of the Action Plan. The study would be carried out by the expert consultant and
component coordinator.
2. Project Execution
Time Schedule
The component shall be started immediately, i.e. 1st quarter of CY1994. The planned duration of
the project phases is:
-     A: study of aerosol sector                      0.2 years
-     B: seminars & subcomponent designs              0.3 years
-     C: demonstrations & evaluation                  1.0 years
Total                                   1.5 years
Project Organization and Management
The study and technical seminars would be organized by the Component Coordinator with the
assistance of an aerosol expert in consultation with the Project Manager, the ODS Committee and the
Association of Aerosol Manufacturers and other relevant industry organizations.
Any future project component proposals which have been cleared by the Project Director and Ozone
Committee would be prepared in full by the Component Coordinator in collaboration with the relevant
manufacturers.
3. Benefits of the Component
The component would enable remaining CFC propellent users to select the appropriate technology
for conversion and to propose the optimal plan for the smaller artisanal manufacturers. The component
would therefore lay the groundwork for complete elimination of the present consumption (the exact amount
to be determined during the study).



34
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
The institutional strengthening component consists of the establishment of an Ozone Projects
Implementation Unit (OPIU) within the Agence National de la Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE)
which is under the Ministry of Environment in Tunisia. The OPIU is to be responsible for overall Project
implementation and the preparation of the second phase of ODS phaseout projects. The Prcject would
finance incentive bonuses for professional and support staff already in place, technical assistance, office
equipment and maintenance expenses required for the implementation of Project management: activities.
Primary staff would consist of a qualified project manager (PM) familiar with ODS issues in Tunisia, a
bilingual secretary, a technical assistant and an accountant. Technical needs would be addressed by
institutional and technical specialists from abroad who would advise and assist with project implementation.
The institutional specialist would assist with the preparation and updating of procedural guidelines for the
OPIU and the National Ozone Committee (NOC) which would advise OPIU management on national
priorities and review proposed ODS phaseout legislation and incentives. The technical specialists would
provide advice to firms engaged in the implementation of project components.
ANPE Responsibilities
General
*     Prepare, implement, evaluate ozone projects
*     Prepare procedural guidelines for OPIU and NOC
*     Establish and maintain ODS monitoring system
*     Organize a system for the dissemination of information regarding "ozone friendly" technology
*     Follow up on MP activities and update Country Program as needed
Project Director
*     Overall responsibility for Project
*     Report to PDG of ANPE (or Minister of Environment)
*     Supervise Project Manager and follows up on all Project progress
*     Present new proposals to the NOC and the MP Executive Comnmittee
*     Responsible for the continuity of the ozone phaseout program
*     Convene National Ozone Committee
*     Responsible for Project budget
Project Manager
*     Responsible for implementing project within schedule and budget
*     Report to Project Director on progress and budget
*     Manage daily project activity and coordinate with industries responsible for project components
*     Prepare briefs for Project Director to report to NOC on Project progress
Supervise ODS monitoring system
Identify and prepares second phase of investment projects
Responsible for preparation of procurement documents
Responsible for monitoring disbursement against appropriate categories



35
NOC Responsibilities
The National Ozone Committee was created by the GOT following its signing of the Montreal
Protocol and is composed of 15 members representing concerned ministries, industries, academic
institutions and NGOs. Their main responsibilities are to: (a) propose required legislation and regulatory
measures needed to reach ODS phaseout objectives; (b) provide guidance on the implementation of the
Country Program for the Phaseout of ODS which would include proposing and/or reviewing new project
concepts; and (c) serve as a liaison between the ministries, legislature, concerned industries and the
executing agency regarding all ODS phaseout activity, including resolving project issues as they arise.
Source of Assistance
For each component, technical specialists would visit Tunisia to carry out studies, present seminars
or provide assistance with project implementation. At the start of the project, an institution specialist
(obtained locally or through inter-/intra-ministerial cooperation) would assist the TM by: (a) drafting
guidelines and procedures for the NOC and OPIU to be reviewed by the Project Director; (b) clarifying
World Bank procedures regarding procurement, disbursement and audit requirements; and (c) providing
assistance as requested in the development of regulatory measures to be proposed to reach ODS phaseout
objectives, and in the development of an ODS monitoring system.
Throughout the project, technical specialists would visit Tunisia in association with the Project's
technical components. These specialists would also work with the Project Director in resolving technical
Project issues and proposing and drafting new projects for the second phase of ODS phaseout activities.
The last visit of the technical specialists would include a project completion seminar to which all the
industries in the ODS-using sector would be invited in order to share project results.
If requested by the Government, a "project launch seminar" would be carried out in order to
familiarize the OPIU with all Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement and project preparation as
well as Montreal Protocol guidelines and criteria for project funding and approval. A disbursement seminar
was provided to key staff at the Central Bank of Tunisia in September 1993, and these staff have assured
their availability for the training of government officials and staff as necessary.



TUNISIA: Demonstration Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Cost Table                                                                        m:\fs\tun\totcost2.xls
DEMONTRER UN PROTOTYPE DE REFRIGERATION DOMESTIQUE UTILISANT IIFC-134a
Calendar Year
Base Cost                              Forelgn              MP Flnancing
Code   Resource                                      1994   1995    1996   1997 TOTAL   %             Total               [Total
11.111  INFORMATIQUE                                  12.0                            12.0        92         11       100       12.0
11.121  POMPE EVACUANTE                                3.0                             3.0       100          3       100        3.0
11.122  POSTE DE RECHARGE                             30.0                            30.0       100        30        100       30.0
11.123  COMPRESSEURS, TUYAUTERIE                      15.0                            15.0       100         15       100       15.0
11.124  AMENAGEMENT CH. D'ESSAI                      75.0                             75.0        47        35         47       35.0
11.125  OUTILLAGE                                             6.0                      6.0       100         6        100        6.0
11.126  EQUIPMENT & MATERIEL                         69.0                             69.0         0         0         30       20.7
11.127  REFRIGERANT                                    1.0                             1.0       100          1       100        1.0
11.100  EQUIPEMENT. MATERIEL ET FOURNITURES          205.0    6.0     0.0    0.0   211.0          48        101        58      122.7
11.210  4 VISITES DE 2 SEMAINES                       13.0   26.0    11.0             50.0       100         50       100       50.0
11.220  UN ING. COORD. (Encouragement)                 2.3    6.5     6.5    0.0    15.3           0          0       100       15.3
11.230  UN TECHNICIEN (PLEIN TEMPS)                    4.7   14.0    14.0    9.3    420            0          0       100       42.0 _
11.200  COOPERATION TECHNIQUE                         20.0   46.5    31.5    9.3   107.3          47        50        100      107.3
11.311  SEMINAIRE                                                            15.0    15.0          0         0        100       15.0
11.312  ENTRETIEN/EQUIPEMENT                                          5.0       0     10.0         0          0         0        0.0
11.300  OPERATIONS                                            0.0     5.0   20.0      25.0         0          0        60       15.0
11.400  SALAIRES LOCAUX                                       0.0                      0.0 0.0  0.0
SUBTOTAL 11                                          52.5    36.5   29.3   343.3          44       151         71      245.0
DEMONTRER LA CONVERSION A LA TECHNOLOGIE DE LA MOUSSE ISOLANTE SANS CFC
. lase Cost                             Foreign             MP Flnancing
Code   Resource                                      1994   1995    1996   1997 TOTAL   %             Total     %          Total
12.110  MODIFICATION DES MACHINES                      97      98                      195       100        195       100        195
12.120  POLYOL, ISOCYANATES                            10                               10       100         10       100         10
12.130  MACHINE D'INJECTION                           120                              120         0          0         0          0
12.100  EQUIPEMENT, MATERIEL ET FOURNITURES           227      98       0       0      325        63        205        63        205
12.210  3 VISITES/TOTAL: 4 SEMAINES                            24       9               33       100         33       100         33
12.220  Demonstration des converslons                                  28               28         0          0       100         28
12.200  COOPERATION TECHNIQUE                                  24      37       0       61        54         33       100         61
12.310  ENTRETIEN DES MACHINES                                  5       5               10         0          0         0          0
12.320  PURGE/MACHINE D'INJECTION                               3       3                6       100          6       100          6
12.300  OPERATIONS                                              8       8       0       16        38      ,  6         38          6
12.400  SALAWRES LOCAUX                                         0       0       0        0         0          0         0          0
SUBTOTAL 12                                           130      45       0      402        61       244         68       272



FORMER LES TECHNICIENS A L'ENTRETIEN DU SYSTEME DU FROID
Base Cost                                Foreign              MP Financing
Code    Resource                                       1994   1995    1996    1997 TOTAL   %             Total      %          Total
21.111   ACCESSOIRES                                             10                        10        100         10       100         10
21.112   MACHINES DE RECYCLAGE                                   75                        75        100         75       100         75
21.113   PIECES DE RECHANGE                                      10                        10        100         10       100         10
21.114   MATIERE D'OEUVRE                                         8                         8        100  _          8    100          a
21.100  EQUIPEMENT, MATERIEL ET FOURNITURES                     103        0       0      103        100        103       100        103
21.210  ETUDE                                                    40                        40         25         10        100        40
21.220  FORMATION DES FORMATEURS                                 20                        20        100         20        100        20
21.230  COORDONNATEUR (TEMPS. PART.)                             12       12      12       36          0          0        100        36
21.240  FORMATEURS                                                9       18       9       36          0          0        100        36
21.250  TECHNICIENS EN REFRIGERATION                             40       40      40      120          0          0        100        120
21.200  COOPERATION TECHNIQUE                                   121       70      61      252         12         30        100       252
21.310  VOYAGES                                                   3                         3          0          0        100          3
21.320  SUBSISTENCE/FORMATEURS                                    18    _                  18        133         24        100         18
21.330  ENTRETIEN DES MACHINES                                    4        8       8       20         50         10        100        20
21.340  OPERATIONS/CYCLES DE FORM.                                5       10       5       20         50         10        100         20
21.350  FRAIS DE BUREAU                                            a       a       a       24         50         12          0          0
21.300  OPERATIONS                                               38       26      21       85         66         56         72         61 I
21.400  SALAIRES LOCAUX                                           0        0       o        0          0          o          o          0
SUBTOTAL 21                                             262      96      82      440         43        189         95        416
DEMONTRER L'INTRODUCTION DE LA TECHNOLOGIE DE LA MOUSSE SANS CFC
Base Cost                                Foreign               MP Financing
Code   Resource                                        1994   1995    1996    1997 TOTAL   %              Tolal     %           Total
31.110   POLYOLS                                                           9                9        100          9          0          0
31.120  ISOCYANATE                                                         6                6        100          6          0          0
31.130  AUTRES MATERIAUX                                                   3                3        100          3          0          0
31.140  RECONVERSION:
Instnument de Controle
cinq pompes (Isocyanate, polyol,MeCI,..)
tunnel tole Inox, vannerie el tuyauterle Inox
extracleur, collecleur de gaz, cheminee d'exhausl
zone de murlssent
cilternes (chlorure de melhylene. glycerine)
tetes de moussage flexibles en teflon                  70       50              120         42         50         58         70
31.100   EQUIPEMENT, MATERIEL ET FOURNITURES                      70      68       0      138         49         68         51         70                                     (D
31.210  COORDONNATEUR (Encouragement.)                   2.3    6.4      4.3              13.0         0          0        100         13
31.220   VOYAGE D'ETUDE PAR (CADRE)                                3                         3       200          6        100          3
31.230  STAGE (TECHNICIEN)                                         6                        6        100          6        100          6
31.240  Seminalre de Demonilration                                        11               11          0          0        100         11
31.200  COOPERATION TECHNIQUE                            2.3    15.4    15.3      0.0     33.0        36         12        100         33
31.300  OPERATIONS                                                 o       0       0        0          0          0          0          0 0   o   o   0
31.400  SALAIRES LOCAUX                                            0       0       0        0          0          0          0          0  _______I____I_______
SUBTOTAL 31                                              85      83       0       171        47         80         60        103



!Basc Cost                              Pi ' '                F
_o*e   PResource                                  l1994   1995   i99G   1997 TOTAL  J%         IToaal      N7     [Toial       _
__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _                     a0                 227        T                        1     1   0    __ ___ __    _   e_._ __ _ __   _ ___.
41.110  EOUIPEMENT DP DEMONSTRATiOt                         50 1 122.7           172.7      100                 100       72.7
41.100  EQUIPEMENT, MATERIEL ETFOURNITURES         -        50   122.7    0.0   112.7   _10           173       100      172.7
41.210  ETUDE                                               1138           _        18       100       18       100       18.0
41.220  COORDONNATEUR (Encouragement)               2.3    6.5    6.5             15.3        0         0       100       15.3
41.231  EXPERT (SEMINAIRE)                                  30                      30       100       30       100       30.0
41.232  EXPERT (EVALUATION SEMINAIRE)                       18                      18       100       18       100       18.0
41.200  COOPERATION TECHNIQUE                       2.3   72.5    6.5    0.0    81.3         81        68       100       81.3
41.311  SEMINAIRE                                           10                      10        0         0       100       10.0
41.300  OPERATIONS                                          10       0_   0         10        0        0        100       10.0       . .
41.400  SALAIRES LOCAUX                                      0                                0         0         0        0.0 .
SUBTOTAL41                                         133    129       0    2i4.0       90       239       100       264
ADMINISTRER L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Base Cost                             Foreign            MP Financing
Code   Resource                                    1994   1995   1996   1997 TOTAL  %            Total     %         Total
51.110  EGUIPEMENTINFORMATIQUE                       25                             25  .    88         22       100        25
51.120  UNITE DE REPRODUCTION                        12                   -         12        92        11       100       12
51.130  DOCUMENTATION                                 5                              5       100         5       100         5
51.140  MATERIEL DE BUREAU                            6                              6        33         2       100         6                      Co
51.150  FAX                                           2                              2       100         2       100         2
51.100  EQUIPEMENT, MATERIEL ET FOURNITURES          50      0       0      0       50        70        35       100        50
51.205 Dlrecleur de Prolet (Encouragemenl)         1.2    3.5    3.5    2.3    10.5           0         0       100      10.5
51.210  Chef du Projel (Encouragement)              1.6    4.3    4.3    2.0    13.0           0         0       100      13.0
51.220  Secretalre/Chet du Prolet                   2.0    6.0    6.0    4.0    18,0           0         0       100      18.0
51.230  Veriticaleur des Comptes                    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0       8.0         0         0       100       8.0
51.240  Agent Comptable/Passatlon                   2.6    8.0    8.0    5.4    24.0           0         0       100      24.0
51.250 Technician                                  2.6    8.0    8.0    5.4    24.0           0         0       100      24.0
51.260 AssIslance TechnIque en Gesllon             3.0    9.0    6.0    =         18.0        0         0       100      18.0
51.200  COOPERATIONTECHNIQUE                        15.0   40.8   37.8   21.9   115.5          0       0.0       100      115.5.
51.310  FOURNITURES ET ENTRETIEN                     1.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    13.0          0         0       100       13.0
51.320  FRAIS/REUNIONS (COMITE OZONE)                       1.0    1.0    1.0       3.0        0         0       100       3.0
51.330  TELEPHONE ET FAX                        -   1.0    4.0    4.0    3.0    12.0           0         0       100       12.0
51.340  TRANSPORT                                    2.5   17.0   17.0    6.0    42.5          0         0       100       42.5
51.350  LOYER ET ELECTRICITE                        2.0   16.0   16.0   13.0    47.0           0         0       100       47.0
51.360  TRADUCTION                                   1.0    2.0    2.0    2.0       7.0        0         0       100        7.0
51.300  OPERATIONS                                   7.5   44.0   44.0   29.0   124.5          0         0       100      124.5
51.410  DIRECTEUR DE PROJET, MI-TEMPS               15.0   20.0   20.0   15.0    70.0          0         0         0        0.0
51.411  SECRETAIRE DE DIRECTION. M.T.                4.0    8.0    8.0    4.0    24.0          0         0         0        0.0
(D
51.412  COMPTABLE (TEMPS. PART.)                     3.0    6.0    6.0    3.0    18.0          0         0         0        0.0
51.414  CHAUFFEUR                                    4.0    8.0    8.0    4.0    24.0          0         0         0        0.0
51.415  GARDIEN                                      3.0    6.0    6.0    3.0    18.0          0         0         0        0.0
51.400  SALAJRES LOCAUX                             29.0   480    48.0   29.0   154.0 0                 0         0        0.0
SUBTOTAL51                                 101.5  132.8  129.6   79.9   444.0          8        35        65      290.0
TOTAL BASE COST                            101.5  795.2  519.8  191.2  2064.3         45       938        77    1590.0
Contingencies                                 5     96      71      28     200        44        88       100      200.0
TOTAL COST                                  107    891    591    219    2264          45      1026        79    1790.0



39
Annex 2
RECOMMENDED GOVERNMENTAL REGULATORY MEASURES
The following regulatory measures are recommended for the Government of Tunisia to encourage an
accelerated phaseout of ODSs:
a.    Bans on the use of ODSs for specific purposes at specifically given dates in accordance with
the recommended ODS phaseout schedule (table 3). It should be noted that this schedule is
by no means definitive and will be updated according to the recently agreed Copenhagen
Amendments. Further studies into the detailed consumption patterns and negotiations with
the ODS-using industries is mandatory before issuing any bans. Based on the revised
Country Program and with the assistance of the institutional advisor and the National Ozone
Committee, the ANPE will prepare the necessary legislation for the introduction of the bans.
b.    Special ODS tax on imports of all controlled substances (Table 1). The purpose of the tax is
to encourage the initial substitution of ODSs in easily substitutable applications such as
aerosols and flexible foams. The revenue from the ODS tax could be used for local
financing of projects aimed at ODS substitution and information dissemination. The tax
should be higher than the incremental substitution costs in these applications but less than
the present sales price of CFC-12 on the local market which is around US$ 4 per kilogram.
A tax of US$ 1-2 per kg is suggested. Tax increases will be considered at a later stage in
the phaseout plan.
c.    Tax exemptions for imports of ODS conserving technology. Imports of ODS conserving
technology, such as recovery and recycling machines and safety equipment should be
exempted from the general import duty, as is already the case for other environmental
equipment imported to Tunisia.
d.    Standards for recycled CFC and foam densities. International (ARI) standards for recycled
CFC will be provided in order to guarantee the quality of repairs using recycled refrigerants.
In the future, standards for minimum densities of flexible foam of e.g. 18-20 kg/in3 will
encourage the use of CO/water blowing instead of CFC or other blowing agents. The
standards should be communicated to the affected industries.



40
RECOMMENDED MONITORING SYSTEM FOR ODS
It is recommended to establish a system for monitoring ODS consumption in Tunisia with the
purpose of controlling compliance with the Montreal Protocol and the national ODS phaseout policy.
Furthermore, the monitoring system will function as the basis for efficient and considerate policy actions
and adjustments of the regulatory and phaseout schedule.
The system should allow for monitoring of ODS imports, price trends and consumption patterns (by
end user sector and type of ODS). The monitoring system should cover the substances controlled by the
Protocol, i.e. CFCs, halons, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride, as well as HCFC-22 and other
transitional and potential substitute chemicals.
The Customs Department ('Directorate des Douanes') would hold responsibility for recording all
imports and exports of ODSs both as chemicals and in products containing ODSs (refrigerators, aerosol
cans, foam formulations, insulation sheets, fire fighting equipment, mobile air conditioners in cars, etc.).
The recording should following the International Classification System (ISCS). Customs should also
register the names of the importers and exporters, and they would report on a regular basis (e.g. quarterly) to
both the Institut National de Statistique (INS) and the National Ozone Committee. As registration of
imports and exports is already computerized, it would simply be a question of expanding this system.



41
RECOMMENDED ODS LICENSING AND ACCREDITATION OF REFRIGERATION
TECHNICIANS
It is recommended that ANPE incorporates in its regulations of ODS phaseout a licensing system in
order to facilitate the monitoring of all sales of ODSs in Tunisia. When fully implemented, a license will be
required for all imports and internal purchases of ODSs as chemicals. The requirements for obtaining the
ODS license shall be worked out for each group of ODS users. The potential for a marketable permit
system may be explored as a future option.
In the case of refrigeration service personnel, it is recommended that the license is attached to an
accreditation system for service technicians. Only certified service personnel/shops should obtain and ODS
license. To obtain a certificate, the service technicians must complete a short ODS handling course (see
Annex 1 project component for refrigeration training and maintenance), encouraging improved servicing
procedures and recovery and recycling of CFCs.  The certificate could also be tied to equipment
requirements such as vacuum pumps, recovery equipment, etc. It is, of course, necessary that the training be
made available to all before the license system can be fully implemented.
The cost of training will be covered by the project component for a period of three years.



42                               Annex 3-
Page 1 of 5
SOUS-PROJET DE CONCEPTION ET D'ESSAIS
DE FABRICATION DE REFRIGERATEURS
SANS CFCs
CONVENTION
Entre les soussignrs:
L'Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement, sise centre urbain nord,
immeuble ICF, 2080 Ariana, repr6sentee par Monsieur Touhami HAMROUNI, President
Directeur General, et indiff6remment denommee ci-apres "Agence Nationale de Protection
de I'Environnement" ou "ANPE" aux fins de la presente convention.
D'une part
Et
Le groupe Tabrid, sis a Ben Arous, Zone Industrielle de Bir El Kassaa, represente aux
fins de la pr6sente convention par son President Directeur Gen6ral, Monsieur
Afif EL KILANI, et indifferemment d6nomm6 ci-apres "Tabrid" ou "Groupe Tabrid" aux
fins de la pr6sente convention
D'autre part
Attendu que
A/ Par un accord de don ( I'accord de don) conclu entre la Republique Tunisienne
( le Beneficiaire) et la Banque Internationale pour la Reconstruction etile Developpement
(la Banque), la Banque a accepte d'accorder un don de la Caisse Fiduciaire du Protocole de
Montreal (le Don) au Ben6ficiaire aux conditions stipulees dans I'accord de don pour
financer le Projet de D6monstration en vue de I1'limination des substances destructrices
de I'Ozone (le Projet); et
Attendu que,
B/ Le projet sera execut6 par I'Agence Nationale de Protection de I'Environnement
avec l'assistancepu B16nficiair#t que, dans le cadre de ladite assistance,.le B6n6ficiaire
mettra a la disposition de l'A PE les fonds du don conformement aux dispositions de
l'accord de don;
Pour ces motifs, les parties a la presente convention sont convenues de ce qui
suit:



Annex 3
43                                 Page 2 of 5
ARTICLE PREMIER : OBJET DE LA CONVENTION
L'Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement confie au groupe Tabrid, qui
l'accepte, la mission d'execution du sous-projet de demonstration, de conception et de la
mise en fabrication de 10 prototypes de refrigerateurs fonctionnant avec le HFC 1 34a
comme refrigerant, et utilisant 1a mousse d'isolation a faible teneur ou sans CFCs
(composantes I1 et 12), et ce, dans le cadre du Projet et du Programme National pour
l'elimination des substances destructrices de la couche d'ozone ( SDOs).
ARTICLE DEUX : PIECES CONTRACTUELLES
Les pieces contractuelles sont les suivantes; et en cas de divergences, seront prises en
consideration dans l'ordre suivant
1/ La presente convention
2/ Le document de travail des composantes 1 1 et 12 du Projet
3/ Les termes de r6ference pour le recrutement des coordinateurs, du technicien, et
des experts intemationaux
4/ Annexes: sept (7) annexes, faisant partie de la presente convention.
ARTICLE TROIS: OBUGATIONS DU GROUPE TABRID
3.1- Le groupe Tabrid affectera un coordinateur a temps partiel et un technicien a
plein temps pour travailler sur le sous-projet objet de cette convention. Le coordinateur
et le technicien travailleront sous la direction du chef de projet designe par I'ANPE,
conformement aux termes de r6ference figurant aux annexes 1 et 2.
3.2- Le groupe Tabrid assistera I'ANPE a selectionner et a engager un expert dont les
activites sont precisees aux termes de ref6rence figurant a I'annexe 3.
3.3- Le groupe Tabrid s'engage a mettre en oeuvre les moyens n6cessaires, tant en
personnel, qu'en mat6riel, pour executer le sous-projet dans les . lais prescris,
conformrment au document de travail des composantes 11 et 1 2, objets de la presente
convention et figurant en annexes 4 et 5.
3.4- Le groupe Tabrid s'assurera que le coordonnateur qu'il aura affecte au
sous-projet 6tablira la liste des 6quipements et des matieres d'oeuvre, ainsi que les
sp6cifications techniques correspondantes, et la partie technique des termes de r6ference
relatifs au mandat de l'expert.
3.5- Le groupe Tabrid est responsable de la bonne fin des composantes faisant l'objet
de la pr6sente convention, de la qualite technique du travail et du personnel d'op6rations et
de la preparation des rapports d'avancement mensuels et d'achevement des composantes 1 1
et 12.
Le groupe Tabrid assistera I'ANPE a diffuser les conclusions du rapport d'achevement
du sous-projet.



44                                         Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
3.6- Le Groupe Tabrid stengage:
i/   A fournir les resources et les fonds necessaires a l'ex6cution des composantes 11 et
1 2 du Projet;
ii/ A Tenir les comptes et ecritures n6cessaires pour enregistrer conformement a des
pratiques comptables appropri6es les operations, les ressources et les depenses relatives
aux composantes 1 1 et 12 du projet et a conserver une situation fi,4nancidre satisfaisante
sur la base d'indicateurs jug6s acceptables par la Banque;
iii/ A respecter toutes les normes et conditions de securit6 nationales ou intemationales
qui auront ete fixees par I'ANPE; et
iv/ A s'assurer et rester assure aupres d'assureurs dignes de confiance pour tous risques
et msontants conformes a une saine pratique de l'assurance.
ARTICLE QUATRE: OBUGATIONS DE L' ANPE:
4.1- L'ANPE s'engage a nommer un chef de projet dont le nom sera communique par
6crit au groupe Tabrid 15 jours apres la signature du contrat.
4.2- L'ANPE s'engage a financer la r6alisation des actions mentionnees dans le
document de travail relatif aux composantes 11 et 12 (Annexes 4 et 5) sur pr6sentation
de pieces comptables justificatives, conform6ment aux modalites prevues par ledit
document et pour des montants ne d6passant ceux precises ci-apres pour le financement
par le Don;
Le co&t total de la composante 1 1 est estim6 a 395.000 $ E.U
Le coOt total de la composante 12 est estime a 435.000 $ E.U
Le financement par le Don de la composante 11 du Projet est arr&6 A un montant de
276.000 $ E.U (deux cents soixante.seize mille dollars des Etats Unis)
Le financement par le Don de la composante 12 du projet est arrete a un montant de
305.000 $ E.U (trois cents cinq mille dollars des Etats Unis).
4.3- L'ANPE est charg6e de la passation des marches et de l'emploi des consultants
conform6ment aux dispositions de I'Accord de Don.
ARTICLE CINQ: DUREE DE LA CONVENTION
Les ech6ances d'ex6cution sont celles prevues par le document de travail de la
comrposante 1 1 et 1 2 du projet. La dur6e totale d'ex6cution des composantes 1 1 et 1 2 est
de trois ans, au plus tard, non obstant, le 30 juin 1997. Ce delai commence a courir a
compter de la notification par I'ANPE au groupe Tabnd du commencement des travaux des
composantes 11 et 12 du projet



Annex 3
45                                 Page 4 of 5
ARTICLE SIX   MODALITES DE PAYEMENT
6.1- Les paiments seront decaisses sur presentation de factures certifiees vraies et
exactes. Le coordinateur et le chef de projet verifient les contrats et les factures et
s'assurent qu'ils sont conformes aux dispositions de la convention relative aux
composantes 1 1 et 12. L'ANPE, ou la ou les personnes qu'elle aura designee A cet effet,
sera, ou seront l'ordonnateur du payement des depenses.
6.2- En cas de different, I'ANPE decaissera la partie non contestee et decaissera, s'il
y'a lieu, la partie contestee au reglement du different
6.3- I'ANPE se reserve le droit d'auditer les comptes des composantes, conform6ment
aux dispositions de I'Accord de Don.
6.4- Les representants de la Banque, dument habilit6s, ont le droit de v6rifier les
comptes conformrment aux dispositions de l'Accord de Don.
ARTICLE SEPT : SUIVI DU PROJET
Le coordinateur 6labore un rapport mensuel d'avancement , en trois copies, et le
soumet au chef du projet
Au plus tard 30 jours apres l'achevement de chaque composante , le coordinateur
6tablira et communiquera a I'ANPE un rapport final en trois copies, qui indiquera outre
1'etat d'achevement du projet, les e6lments d'un -rojeL futur a 1'echelle industrielle, dont
l'identification commencera avec le demarrage de la composante et l['laboration se
poursuivra pendant la duree d'ex6cution de celle-ci.
L'ANPE se reserve le droit de demander a tout moment toutes informations relatives
a l'execution du sous-projet.
L'ANPE aura le droit de suspendre ou de supprimer le droit de Tabrid d'utiliser le
materiel, les matieres d'oeuvre et I'assistance technique mis a Ia disposition de Tabrid par
I'ANPE au moyen des fonds du Don, en cas de manquement par Tabrid aux obligations qui lui
incombent en vertu de la pr6sente convention.
ARTICLE HUfT: DROIT DE PROPRIETE
Les archives, les resultats des essais ainsi que les plans 6tablis et toute autre
information technique et financiere concernant les composantes 11 et 1 2 seront la
propriete exclusive de I'ANPE.
ARTICLE NEUF: REGLEMENT DES UTIGES
Toute contestation ou litige entre les parties contractantes portant sur
l'interpretation ou l'application de l'une des clauses de la p.esente convention ou des
pieces contractuelles citees a I'article 2 de 1a presente convention doit faire l'objet d'une
tentative de conciliation a l'entente directe ou indirecte.



46                             Annex 3
46                            Page 5 of 5
A d6faut de regiement amiable, le litige sera du ressort du tribunal de premiere
instance de Tunis
ARTICLE DIX : LANGUE
La langue de la convention est la langue francaise, qui seule fait foi en cas de
traduction.
ARTICLE ONZE: TIMBRE ET ENREGISTREMENT
Les frais de timbre et d'enregistrement de la presente convention sont a la charge du
Groupe Tabrid.
Fait a Tunis, en date du .............
LE PRESIDENT DIRECTEUR GENERAL                 LE PRESIDENT DIRECTEUR GENERAL
DE L'ANPE                                    DU GROUPE TABRID
TOUHAMI HAMROUNI                                   AFIF EL KILANI
Annexes a, et faisant partie de la presente convention
Annexe 1: Termes de ref6rence des coordinateurs
Annexe 2: Termes de reference du technicien
Annexe 3 : Termes de ref6rence des experts intemationaux (Assistance technique)
Annexe 4: Document de travail de la composante 11
Annexe 5 : Document de travail de la composante 1 2
Annexe 6: Planning des activites des composantes 11 et 12
Annexe 7: Budgets des composantes 11 et 12



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE PHASEOUT OF
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PROJECT TABLES






47
Table 1: Controlled Substances by Consumption in Tunisia, 1991
Substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol         Consumptiont2                  ODP Factor                     Consumption
(metric tonnes)                                              (ODP tonnes)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-I 1                                                                 685                            1.0                            685
CFC-12                                                                  360                            1.0                            360
CFC-113                                                                   5                           0.8                               4
CFC-I 14                                                                  0                            1.0                              0
CFC- 115                                                                 10                           0.6                               6
Subtotal                                                              1,060                                                         1,055
Annex A, Group 11
Halon 1211                                                                0                           3.0                               0
Halon 1301                                                                2                           10.0                             20
Halon 2402                                                                0                           6.0                               0
Subtotal                                                                  2                                                            20
Annex B, Group I
Other CFCs                                                                0                           1.0                               0
Annex B, Group 11
Carbon tetrachloride (CTC)                                                1                            1.1                              I
Annex B, Group IIl
Methyl chloroform (MCF)                                                  10                           0.1                               1
Total Controlled Substances                                           1,073                                                         1,077
Annex C, Transitional Substances
HCFC-22                                                                 140                          0.05                               7
Other HCFCs                                                               0                                                             0
Total                                                                   140                                                             7
1/        Production of ODSs = 0.
2/        CFC consumptfon equals imports i.e. total CFC imports in 1991 = 1,070 metric tonnes, except for 10 tonnes of CFC-1 2 which were re-
exported to neighboring countries.



Table 2: Estimated ODS Consumption in Tunisia by Use and Application, 1991
Use Sector                                     Substance                              Application                                                   Consumption (metric tons)
REFRIGERATION                                                                                                               Annex A,            Annex A,               Annex B               Annex C
Group I             Group II              Group II
CFCs                Halons                and III
Domestic                                         CFC-12            refrigerators for the local market                          20
refrigerators for export                                   40
servicing (recharging, purging and leak testing)           125
Commercial                                       CFC-12            production of comm. refrig. equipment, installation         15
and servicing
CFC-1 15           in R-502 for installaton and servicing                     10
HCFC-22            production of comm. refrig. equipment, installation                                                                         (30)
and servicing
Industrial                                       CFC-12            installation and servicing                                  20
HCFC-22            installation and servicinig                                                                                                 (40)
AIR CONDITIONING                                 CFC-12            servicing of car air conditioners                           <5                                                                                      .
0c
CFC-12            servicing of central type air conditioners                  <5
HCFC-22            production, installation and servicing of unit air                                                                          (70)
coinditioners
FOAM (Polyurethane)
Rigid                                            CFC-I I           insulation foam in domestic refrigerators for the local     60
market
CFC-I I           insulation foam in domestic refrigerators for export       100
CFC- 11           insulation in commercial refrigeration units                15
CFC-12            EPS packaging                                               10
Flexible                                         CFC-l I           mattresses and cushions                                    400
AEROSOLS                                       CFC-I 1+12          mainly cosmetics, air fresheners, insecticides and         230
pesticides
SOLVENTS                                        CFC-1 13           various minor applications                                  <5
CIC              various minor applicatons                                                                              I
MCF              various minor applications                                                                            10
FIRE FIGHTING                                  Halon- 1301         stationary firefighting equipment                                                2
TOTAL ODSs                                                                                                                    1,060                 2 .I                                        140
A    ,                                                                                       A .   , 



49
Table 3: Recommended Schedule of Bans on ODS use in Tunisia
The use regulated of ODSs is allowed in the production and servicing of the below listed application areas until
the given date
January 1st 1995                      Flexible foam for mattresses and cushioning
Aerosol cans
January 1st 1996                      Refrigerant in new domestic refrigerators
*      Polyurethane foam in domestic refrigerators
January 1st 1997              *       Refrigerant in production and installation of new commercial and
industrial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment
*      In new imports of mobile air conditioners
January 1st 1998              *       Polyurethane foam in new commercial refrigeration equipment
*      Extruded polystyrene foam for packaging materials
January 1st 2000              *       Solvents
January 1st 2010                      Servicing of domestic refrigerators
*      Servicing of commercial and industrial refrigeration and air
conditioning equipment
*      Servicing of mobile air conditioners
AX halonsl
January 1st 1998              *       Installation of new fire fighting equipment
January 1st 2007              *       Servicing of halon fire fighting equipment
Carbon tetrachlorjde-
January I st 2000             *       All uses
.Meth  clioroform-
January 1st 2005              *       All uses
1/     Recycled ODSs should not be regulated.



50
Table 4: Controlled Substances and Phaseout Schedules
Montreal                           London                           Revised EEC
Protocol                      Arnendmnents to the                     Targets
Protocol
September 1987                       June 1990                          April 1992
CFCs                                        Base year 1986                     Base year 1986                     Base year 1986
11, 12, 113, 114,115
Freeze by 1989                     Freeze by 1989                     Freeze by 1989
-20% by 1993                       -50% by 1995                       - 85% by 1994
- 50% by 1998                      - 85% by 1997                     - 100% by 1996*
100% by 2000
Halons                                      Base year 1986                     Base year 1986                      Base year 1986
1211, 1301,2402
Freeze by 1992                     Freeze by 1992                     Freeze by 1992
.50% by 1995                       - 85% by 1994
-100% by 2000                    -100% by 1996*
Other fully halogenated CFCs                 No regulation                     Base year 1989                      Base year 1989
13, 111, 112, 211, 215, 216, 217
-20% by 1993                       - 85% by 1994
-85% by 1997                      -100% by 1996*
- 100% by 2000
Carbon tetrachloride                         No regulation                     Base year 1989                      Base year 1989
CC4
-85% by 1995                       - 85% by 1994
- 100% by 2000                     100% by 1996*
Methyl chloroform                            No regulation                     Base year 1989                      Base year 1989
(CH3 CCI3)
Freeze by 1993                     Freeze by 1992
-30% by 1995                       - 85% by 1994
-70% by 2000                      - 100% by 1996*
-100% by 2005
* Indicates possible temporary exemption foressential use.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE PHASEOUT OF
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PROJECT FIGURES






Figure 1
Tunisia ODS Consumption
1991
CFC-113 & 115 10    CFC-12 360                          Fire Fighting
Aerosols      2?zefrigerants
Halon-1301 20                                                        240 2n
..............SolvenLs
Rigid Foam
CFC-11 685
Flexible Foam
400
By Type of ODS                   By Major End-Uses
Total Consumption: 1,077 ODP Tons



52
Sactire a itrati
|Banque  |            Gouvernement Tunisien
mondiale             Ministere de ia C.I.LIE.
A.N.P.E. (MEAT)
Gestion du
projet
Projet #1:
Demonstration en
vue de I'elimination
des SDO
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
composante:                   12           21            31           41
responsable:       PDG Tabrid   PDG Tabrid                   M'Zabi
coordonnateur.   Dagi           Monjez
expert:
technicien:
Document de Travail        Annexe 51.5, page 1



53
gfrhFglnacer
Fonds du
Protocole de                                  de caissements
Montreal
.  documentation
accord            Coop&ration lnternationale
-------     - - 
Banque
Mondiale        requete de re-alimentation du CS
-i   -                    - - - - - - - - -             -    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____  r..                 I o~D'
- ,                         }Xvdrification       ;  ;:
- - -- -- -- -- --   -        des comptes        I
Compte
Sp6cial__________________________
Banque
Tunisienne                                                ANPE
(compte no.                    autorisation de paiement
)  ---      ----  ----------- -              (MEAT)
- 2 I 
4-. 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'U
,.         .                                                        0.
gestion du          . -
fournisseur,                                    pj
consultant    .
chef    |
S '                                 .    ~~~~~~~~~~comptable 
entreprise                          I   convention   I               I
b6ndficiaire           .                              I
facture              sui         1
(composante xx) --                        - - - 
Document de Travail         Annexe 51.6 ,page 1









MICROGRAPHICS                                   CATALOGUERS/FILE
Report No:       12490 TUN                      Report No:        12490 TUN
Type: PD                                        Type: PD
PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER



