 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14815

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 10/09/2015

               Country: Tunisia
             Project ID: P005591                                                     Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Tn-ozone Depleting           Project Costs (US$M):                       2.32                 5.18
                         Substance
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       1.79                 4.42
      Sector Board:        Environment                 Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                              06/21/1994
                                                              Closing Date:           12/30/1997         06/30/2012
          Sector(s):       Other industry (78%); Central government administration (22%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (67% - P); Environmental policies and
                           institutions (33% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
John Redwood               Christopher David       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project was prepared for the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol (MP) by the Bank in its role to cooperate
and assist in administering and managing a program to finance incremental costs of Ozone-depleting Substances
(ODS) phaseout activities, enabling Article 5 countries to comply with the Protocol's control measures. The Project
Document (pg. 4) stated that the project development objectives were to:

    “a) establish the institutional and regulatory framework for decreasing ODS [Ozone Depleting Substances] uses;
    and b) introduce ODS-free technologies to the refrigeration, foam and aerosol industries as a first demonstration
    phase in completing an early ODS phase-out program.”

The Montreal Protocol Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFA, Schedule 2) stated the development objectives as:

    "to assist the Recipient in implementing a strategy aimed to establish the institutional and regulatory framework
    for decreasing the use of ODS and introduce, on a demonstrational basis, ODS-free technologies to the country's
    refrigeration, foam and aerosol industries so as to initiate actions leading to an early ODS phase-out program."

Development objectives were revised in 2007 to initiate a fully comprehensive national ODS phase-out program
across all ODSs and all sectors in compliance with the conditions and timetables established by the Montreal
Protocol. The statement of development objectives in the original TFA Schedule 2 was amended (shown in italics) as
follows:

    "to assist the Recipient in implementing a strategy aimed to establish the institutional and regulatory framework
    for decreasing the use of ODS and introduce, on a demonstrational basis, ODS-free technologies to the country's
    refrigeration, foam, aerosol, solvent, halon and bromide industries so as to initiate actions leading to fulfillment of
    the Recipient's commitment to phase out ODS by the year 2010."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

A: Technology Development . (Estimated at appraisal: US$ 1.64 million; Actual: US$ 2.88 million.)
       This initially included three ODS-using sectors: refrigerators, flexible foam and aerosols and had five
        sub-components: (i) introduction of Hydroflourocarbon (HFC) -134a as a substitute for Chlorfluorocarbon
        (CFC)-12 as a refrigerant in the manufacturing of refrigerators; (ii) replacement of CFC-11 as a foam-blowing
        agent for rigid foam refrigerator insulation; (iii) introduction of a CFC-recycling and refrigeration maintenance
        program through training of technicians; (iv) replacement of CFC-11 with non-ODS substitutes in the flexible
        foam sector; and (v) a study to determine assistance and training needs in the aerosol sector.
       a new component for Additional Foam Sub-Projects was added at the end of 1997, after the completion of
        the first round of demonstration sub-projects, to include another group of foam sub-projects for
        implementation between 1998 and 2000. US$ 1.52 million in new funding was provided to finance these
        additional investments. At that time the scope of the ODSs included was expanded to include solvents,
        halon, and bromide.
       In March 2007 a new component to prepare a plan for the implementation of Tunisia’s National Ozone
        Phase-out Plan (NOPP) was added and an additional US$ 1.14 million was committed to increase the grant
        ceiling to fund this activity.

B: Institutional Strengthening . (Estimated at appraisal: US$ 0.48 million; Actual: US$ 1.37 million.)
        This component was designed initially to establish and operate the Ozone Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
           within the National Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) to assist in the management of the project, by
           recruiting staff, providing consultant services, training, and equipment, and identifying feasibility studies of
           new investment projects required to complete the phase-out of ODS.
        The scope of the institutional strengthening component was expanded significantly and its funding was
           tripled to cover the costs of the more complex and difficult task of implementing the NOPP. However, the
           specific interventions supported by the project under the NOPP are not described in the ICR.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost:
     At appraisal the cost was estimated at US$ 2.32 million. Expansion of project scope to include three additional
     ODS-using sectors (solvents, halon, and bromide) and restructuring of the project to implement Tunisia’s
     National ODS Phase-out Plan added significant additional activities and costs to the Technical Assistance
     activities to support institutional strengthening. As a result actual costs at project closing were US$ 5.27 million.
Financing:
     The original ceiling of Montreal Protocol Trust Funds approved by the Multi-lateral Fund (MLF) grant for the
     project was US$ 1.79 million. The initial grant agreement was amended three times to allow for MLF approved
     funding to be added to the grant; these were done on November 1994, December 1997, and February 2007 to
     incrementally increase the ceiling to US$ 5.12 million. Total disbursements from the MLF were US$ 4.42 million
     (86%) due to lower than estimated demand for ODS in the country. The remaining US$ 0.70 million in
     undisbursed project financing was cancelled and returned to the MLF of the Montreal Protocol.
Borrower Contribution :
     At appraisal it was planned that US$ 0.53 million would be provided by the participating industries and
     government. At the time of the ICR preparation (December 21, 2012), the actual amount of the Borrower’s
     contributions had “not been received from the client” (ICR, pg. 35).
Dates:
     The project became effective on June 14, 1994 and was implemented over a period of 18 years. The original
     ODS phase-out project was extended five times for a total of 14.5 years, each time at the request of the
     Government.:
          1.   extension on December 12, 1997 for three years until December 31, 2000.
          2.   extension on December 31, 2000 for three more years until December 31, 2003.
          3.   extension on December 31, 2003 for seven years until December 31, 2010.
          4.   extension on December 28, 2010 for one year until December 31, 2011.
          5.   extension on December 22, 2011 for six months until June 30, 2012 when the project closed.
    The reasons for these extensions being granted were partly due to the nature of the Montreal Protocol
    sequenced funding strategy to finance different classes of ODS (CFCs, halons, HCFCs carbon tetrachloride
    (CCl4), methyl bromide, etc,) on different internationally negotiated time schedules. This type of incremental
    funding and phased roll-out strategy was specifically adopted by the Bank through the use of a special “umbrella”
    grant agreement mechanism established under Operational Policy/Bank Procedures 10.21. However, another
    reason for granting the final extensions of 1.5 years was the limited implementation capacity of the National
    Ozone Bureau within the National Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) following approval of the National
    Ozone Phase-out Plan in 2007, which proved to be much more difficult to manage than the original sub-project
    investments and slowed down implementation.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objectives : High.
Project objectives were highly relevant to Tunisia's endorsement of the Montreal Protocol in 1989 and all subsequent
amendments. These international agreements provided the institutional and financial framework to implement the
Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer. The need to eliminate the use and release to the
environment of ozone-depleting substances was seen as a major concern in 1993-1994 when the project was being
prepared. At that time, ODS consumption in Tunisia had been rising rapidly, nearly doubling over the previous five
years from 585 tons of ozone-depleting potential per year (ODP/yr) in 1986 to 1,073 tons by 1991. In order to receive
financial support from the Multi-Lateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol, Tunisia prepared a Country Program for the
Phase-out of ODS in 1993 and its recommendations were incorporated into the country’s updated Environmental
Action Plan. This Country Program projected that, in the absence of regulation, ODS consumption would grow to
3.000 tons ODP/yr over the 1992-2010 period.

Project objectives were highly relevant to the Bank's aspiration to play a larger role in the protection of the global
environment by incorporating global environmental concerns into its strategy for sustainable development. One of the
Bank’s major commitments to its clients was to provide support to them in meeting their obligations under international
or multilateral agreements including the Montreal Protocol. Even so, there was no mention of ODS or the threat posed
to the ozone layer in the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy with Tunisia (CAS 1996). Instead, the CAS (pg. 9)
focused on other environmental challenges, such as creating more incentives to encourage industry to use clean
technology; improved coastal zone management policies and practices balancing the competing needs of tourism and
industrial development in coastal areas; and sustainable rangeland and forestry management programs. Similarly,
there was no mention of ODS phase-out in the 2009-2013 Country Partnership Strategy

The reduced importance of ODS as a public health concern and priority in the Bank’s operations worldwide, and more
specifically its absence in the current Country Partnership Strategy, however, was a direct result of the success of
Tunisia’s commitment to complying with the Montreal Protocol and the success of MP efforts globally. In short, by the
end of the project in June 2012, concerns over the continued depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer had been
allayed by the progress made during the previous two decades in significantly reducing the consumption of the most
prevalent types of ODS. Thus, while the objective of this project became less relevant to the Bank’s sustainable
development strategy and its country assistance/partnership strategies throughout the period of project
implementation, it remained substantially relevant to Tunisia’s commitment to comply with its international agreements
and implement the National ODS Phase-out Plan within its own environmental action plan.

Revised Objectives : High.
The revised project development objective were highly relevant to completely phasing-out the consumption of ODS in
Tunisia. The NOPP was consistent with the Montreal Protocol’s phased roll-out approach to eliminating ODSs
globally, and the Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol approved this change because it complied with the
Montreal Protocol’s ODS phase-out targets and schedule.


b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design: Substantial.
  The causal link between the project inputs and activities was substantially relevant to achievement of expected
     outcomes and achievement of development objectives.
  Restricting the initial ODS reduction activities to three industrial sectors was pragmatic given the need to build
     technical knowledge and local capacity given that this was a new and innovative approach at the time. The three
     industrial sectors selected were responsible for almost all (94%) of CFC consumption in Tunisia at the time of
     appraisal - 3,436 tons of ODP/yr. out of 3,643 tons of ODP/yr .Success in these three sectors on a
     “demonstration basis” was seen as being instrumental to getting other users in those industries to shift their
     consumption to non-ODS alternatives.
  Building national institutional capacity and a legislative/regulatory platform to control the import and use of ODS
     were consistent with achieving both parts of the project’s objective and was highly relevant as all ODSs were
    imported. The focus on the establishment and operation of the Ozone Project Implementation Unit to assist
    ANPE in managing the Project, specifically through recruitment of staff, provision of consultant services, training
    and equipment, and identification of feasibility studies for new investment projects required to complete the
    phase-out of ODS was substantially relevant.
Revised Design: Modest.
  The project’s focus from merely identifying and financing cost-effective investments for non-ODS alternatives in
    key industries to implementing a much wider range of activities across many activities and sectors of the
    economy was challenging and complex. However, in spite of these significant changes in the project’s
    implementation approach, the actual activities that were undertaken were not clearly identified. The Regional
    Vice-President's Letter to the Borrower of February 22, 2007 that approved this broadening of project activities is
    the only formal description of the changes to project design. The revised institutional component included
    "establishment and operation of the Ozone Project Implementation Unit to assist the National Agency for
    Environmental Protection in managing the project and developing, implementing and enforcing the appropriate
    legal framework and regulations for the use and phasing out of ODS." However, there was no information of
    what the assistance was to be or on what institutional strengthening would be supported and there was no
    associated results framework.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Original Project Objective : "to assist the Recipient in implementing a strategy aimed to establish the institutional
and regulatory framework for decreasing the use of ODS and introduce, on a demonstrational basis, ODS-free
technologies to the country's refrigeration, foam and aerosol industries so as to initiate actions leading to an early
ODS phase-out program." This statement of the project’s objective was broken down into two parts:

Reduction in the use of ODSs in Tunisia cannot be fully attributed to the project. Reduction and the phasing out of
global ODS production elsewhere in the world as a result of the Montreal Protocol’s efforts influenced ODS markets.
Changing European Union and other import standards probably assisted in reducing the use of ODSs -- thus, for
example, two-thirds of the 300,000 refrigerators produced in Tunisia in 1994 were exported.

a. "Assist the Recipient in implementing a strategy aimed to establish the institutional and regulatory framework for
decreasing the use of ODS .” Rating: Substantial .

Outputs:
    The National Agency for Environmental Protection (Agence Nationale de protection de l'Envionnement, ANPE)
     within the Ministry of Environment had established a multi-ministerial National Ozone Committee (latterly the
     national Ozone Bureau) following Tunisia's ratification of the MP in 1989. The project assisted successful
     establishment of the Ozone Project Implementation Unit within ANPE. The Unit mobilized project resources to
     build the institutional and legal framework to phasing out CFCs and the introduction of non-ODS substitutes. The
     strategy for ODS reduction was built on four pillars:
               Preparation of project proposals for MP funding . In all, 14 sub-projects were identified and approved by
                the Executive Committee of the MP to receive Multilateral Funding for the Implementation of the MP
                (MLF). The rolling sequence of later approvals was conditioned on production of satisfactory Project
                Completion Reports for each sub-project including audited costs and the volume of ODS reduction.
               Quota and licensing system . Based on the 1992 Country Program, ANPE prepared the required
                legislation and standards for the introduction of bans on the use of ODS for specific purposes in
                accordance with the ODS phase-out schedule agreed with the MP. An import quota/licensing system for
                ODS users was established along with import monitoring procedures to ensure compliance was
                implemented by the customs authority. Essential by-laws were drafted and implemented, and standards
                for recycled CFCs and foam densities were introduced.
               Tax incentives . A special tax on imports of all controlled ODS substances was instituted, as were tax
                exemptions for substitutes. This encouraged the initial substitution of ODSs in certain applications, such
                as aerosols used for cosmetics and pesticides, and flexible foam in mattresses and cushions because
                imposed import taxes on ODS increased their price and made them less attractive compared to
                non-ODS alternatives.
               Information and demonstration projects . Manufacturing and public awareness about ozone issues was
                enhanced as part of the introduction of regulations, by-laws and the pilot demonstration pilot projects.
                Technical assistance and training programs were utilized to build local technical skills and expertise in
                ODS substitution and disposal (e.g. 600 refrigerator technicians were trained by 1999), and training of
                Custom's Officers.

Outcomes:
    The strategy for decreasing ODS was successfully implemented but at a much slower rate than anticipated at
     appraisal. Complete elimination of CFC imports was only achieved in 2010.
          While the first five enterprise demonstration sub-projects were approved by the MLF in 1992 (two years
           before project approval), the work was completed by 1998, or a year later than planned. This initial batch of
           sub-projects removed 227 tons of ODSs (retrofitted target 227 tons; see ICR para 11 for justification).
           Subsequently 7 further enterprises were approved for investment assistance over the period 1998-2000 and
           this was planned to remove a further 245 tons of ODSs by 2005. A selection of multiple enterprises were
           approved in 2005 and 2010 and these aimed in aggregate to remove a further 342 tons of ODSs.
          ODS (CFCs and halon) imports continued to increase after project approval in 1994 to peak at 1,135.2 tons
           in 1997.

b. “Introduce, on a demonstrational basis , ODS-free technologies to the country 's refrigeration, foam and aerosol
industries so as to initiate actions leading to an early ODS phase -out program." Rating: Modest .

Outputs:
The project provided technical and financial assistance to companies that volunteered for such assistance in the
targeted sectors to replace their ODS-dependent capital production equipment with non-ODS alternative technologies.
Two rounds of sub-projects of assistance was provided on a demonstrational basis, as described below:
Five training and technical assistance packages were approved in all three targeted sectors in “Phase 1” of the project
and they led to the eliminating consumption of 227 tons of ODP/yr.
Seven packages (five of which were approved in the rigid polyurethane foam manufacturing sector alone) were
approved during “Phase 2” of the project from 1998 eliminating 245.4 tons of ODP/yr.

Outcomes:
These 12 technical assistance packages demonstrating ODS alternative technologies under the original project
objectives contributed to the elimination of a combined 472.4 tons of avoided emissions (ODP/yr.). As demonstration
projects, these pilots were intended to lead to further accelerated investments in non-ODS technologies by the private
sector. However, no mention is made in the ICR about their replication or uptake by other companies in those
industries/sectors that were not provided with any financial or technical support from the project.
Even though the ODS reduction targets were eventually achieved, attribution of the decrease and eventual elimination
of consumption of ODS to the project alone is not clear. A review of the annual reductions in ODS imports over the
lifespan of the project from 1990 - 2011 (Table 3 of the ICR, pg. 18) reveals a sharp decrease of imports in the four
years immediately prior to the initiation of the project in mid-1994, and then a sharp increase in imports immediately
following its initiation reaching near record-high levels in 1997 before again sharply dropping off by 43 percent in
2000, where it remained stable for the next three years. This oscillating pattern of import levels is not explained by the
project and opens the door to other exogenous potential explanations for the downward trend of ODS imports.

Revised Project Objectives :

a. "Assist the Recipient in implementing a strategy aimed to establish the institutional and regulatory framework for
decreasing the use of ODS…” Rating: Substantial.

Outputs:
The National Ozone Phase-out Plan (NOPP) was the principal document comprising Tunisia’s strategy and plan to
completely eliminate the consumption of all ODS in the country (vs. just a few selected CFCs and halon under the
original project design) in accordance with the Montreal Protocol’s sequenced phase-out schedules over the next 30
years.
The institutional structures and cross-ministerial coordination and collaboration that had been established under the
original project design remained intact and functional, and enjoyed support from high levels of Tunisia’s Government,
which continued to adopt all subsequent amendments to the Montreal Protocol into its national laws.

Outcomes:
·    Although it is not clear what role the project played in assisting Tunisia to develop and implement its National
Ozone Phase-out Plan, it appears likely that institutional strengthening support received from the MLF was
instrumental in maintaining the institutional and regulatory framework for decreasing the use of ODS. Evidence of this
was provided on page 13 of the ICR regarding the impact of the Arab Spring on project implementation where it is
stated that: “the overall operation of the project was able to continue largely uninterrupted, due largely to two main
factors: first, the fact that the MP grant paid for the operational budget of the NOB; and second, the existence of
strong and long-standing working relationships between the NOB [National Ozone Bureau] and its partner ministries
and agencies (e.g. Customs).”

b. “Introduce, on a demonstrational basis , ODS-free technologies to the country 's refrigeration, foam and aerosol
industries so as to initiate actions leading to the fulfillment of the Recipient 's commitment to phase -out ODS by
2010.” Rating: Negligible .

Outputs:
·     This “third phase” of the project was consistent with the strategic approach adopted by the Montreal Protocol to
roll-out its global program of financial and technical support to countries to eliminate their production and/or
consumption of various kinds of ODS in a sequenced manner over time. After having first established the institutional
and legal framework for the reduction and eventual elimination of ODS in Tunisia, and then initiated a series of
demonstration projects to assist targeted industries phase-out their use of CFCs, Phase 3 was intended to consist of
subsequent private sector investment projects in non-ODS technologies in those sectors. In reality, however, its
practical effect was negligible
·   There were two large tranche disbursements made to “multiple companies” during “Phase 3” of the project that
supposedly eliminated the consumption of 342 tons of ODP/yr. The first tranche was approved in 2006 and the
second in 2010, but neither had a “completion date” indicated. The first tranche only disbursed US$ 122,434 out of
US$ 790,000 approved funds while the second tranche did not disburse any of its allocated US$ 345,395; this
represented just 11% of the total US$ 1,135,395. Despite this, the two disbursements were reportedly credited with
having eliminated the entire consumption of 342 tons of ODP/year. This was particularly problematic given that the
second tranche, resulting in 172.5 tons of avoided ODP/year, was never disbursed and, thus, that reduction could and
should not have been attributed to it.

Outcomes:
As far as could be determined based on the information provided in the ICR, no appreciable contribution was made
by the project to accelerate the country’s efforts to eliminate the use of ODS through the introduction of ODS-free
technologies on a demonstration basis.


 5. Efficiency:
   At the time of project appraisal, neither the economic rate of return (ERR), the net present value (NPV), nor the
financial rate of return (FRR) were calculated. This was not uncommon for Montreal Protocol-funded projects since
they involve the protection of global public goods and compensation for the additional costs associated with complying
with international treaty obligations benefitting the broader global community. Thus, funding decisions are based on
the cost-effectiveness and opportunity costs of comparing different investments or interventions in various countries to
reduce emissions of ODS into the earth’s atmosphere.

     “Phase 2” of the project from 1998-2000, were not completed until Dec. 2204 – Jan. 2005, Compared to the
     target of delivering this assistance within a year and a half, and reducing baseline ODS consumption by one-third
     by the end of 1997, as stated in the Grant Agreement, this assistance appears to have had only modest
     demonstration value in terms of leading to the early phase-out of ODS, as it took nine years longer to achieve its
     intended purpose than estimated at appraisal.

Efficiency under the Original Project Objectives : Modest.
In terms of building the enabling environment in Tunisia so that it could implement the Country Program for the
Phase-out of ODS under the first part of the project’s original objectives, Tunisia efficiently created a multi-ministerial
National Ozone Committee. This Committee advised the Ozone Project Implementation Unit within the Environment
Ministry (OPIU/ANPE) in its oversight of the day-to-day management of the project, established national priorities, and
reviewed proposed ODS phase-out legislation and fiscal incentives. Its membership included the Trade, Finance,
Industry, and Health ministries, as well as the Customs Bureau. In addition, several workshops and training sessions
conducted under the Institutional Strengthening Component, such as training Customs Bureau officers and drafting
various by-laws governing the quota system and import taxation schemes, contributed in strengthening relevant
institutions in a cost-effective manner.

In terms of the cost-effectiveness of project demonstration investments made under the second part of the project’s
original scope and objectives, the weighted average in the first (US$ 6.63) and second (US$ 5.13) phases was US$
5.85, as measured by the amount of MLF grant funds spent per unit weight (in kilograms) of ODS phased-out in ODP
kg/year. Thus, the cost-effectiveness of the project’s demonstration investments was 16 percent higher than originally
estimated (US$ 5.85/kg vs. US$ 5.04/kg). This cost-effectiveness value is also higher than two similar ODS phase-out
projects in India (P-069376 at US$ 3.58) and Venezuela (P-075502 at US$ 4.45), but considerably lower than two
others: in the Philippines (P-004406 at US$ 8.08) and in Malaysia (P-004212 at US$ 10.11). Coupled with the fact that
these investment projects took over 10 years to complete (with the last ones finishing in January 2005) rather than the
one and a half years originally estimated, this results in an efficiency rating of modest in relation to the original project
scope and objectives.

Efficiency under the Revised Project Objectives : Modest.
Implementation of the National Ozone Phase-out Plan by the National Ozone Bureau (changed from OPIC) proved to
be much more difficult to manage than the original demonstration investment projects, which slowed down
implementation during the last four years of the project after its restructuring in March 2007. This notwithstanding,
procurement delays, which had plagued the project during the initial phase, had largely been worked out by this time,
and fiduciary management issues were handled satisfactorily during this phase of project implementation.

Under the ODS-free substitution element of the project’s objectives, the elimination of 342 tons of ODP/yr. in “Phase
3” of the project was erroneously attributed to the project’s appropriations of US$ 1,135,395 in two large tranches to
support “multiple companies” convert to non-ODS technologies. Only US$ 122,434 of the US$ 790,000 first tranche
was actually disbursed, and none of the second tranche allocation of US$ 345,395 was disbursed. Thus, it seems
likely that these 342 “avoided tons” of ODP may well have been achieved in the absence of project assistance.
However, by including this reduction in the cost-effectiveness calculations for the overall project, it had the effect of
pulling down the average cost of ODP reduction by more than one-third, or nearly US$ 2 per kg ODP from US$
5.92/kg to US$ 3.94/kg. This is considered inappropriate by IEG, and the true cost-effectiveness was calculated at
closer to US$ 5.85/kg ODP, 16 percent above the estimated amount, but midway between the cost-effectiveness
values achieved by four other, similar ODS phase-out projects (mentioned above).


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Original Project Objectives : The Relevance of Objectives was assessed as high because the project assisted
Tunisia in implementing its Country Program for the Phase-out of ODS in compliance with its obligations as a
signatory of the Montreal Protocol. The Relevance of Design was assessed as substantial since the causal link
between project inputs and activities led logically to expected outputs and outcomes in achieving the project’s overall
objectives. The Efficacy of the project in assisting Tunisia to establish the institutional and regulatory framework
needed to implement its country program to decrease the use of ODS was rated as substantially achieved while the
project’s Efficacy in introducing ODS-free technologies to targeted industries, on a demonstration basis, only modestly
helped it initiate actions that would lead to the early phase-out of ODS. Finally, the Efficiency of project
implementation was rated as having been modest due to medium cost-effectiveness compared to four other similar
Montreal Protocol-supported ODS phase-out projects in other developing countries and much slower than anticipated
implementation of those investment projects. To arrive at the Outcome rating under the original project objectives and
scope, it was taken into account that the targets established in ODS reductions, which represent the “bottom line” of
the project’s ultimate intention, were met, even if the extent of those reductions cannot be clearly and solely attributed
to the actions created by the project. Thus, the Outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory .

Revised Project Objectives : The Relevance of Objectives was assessed as high because the National Ozone
Phase-out Plan represented Tunisia’s stated intention to comply with and meet the sequenced approach taken by the
Montreal Protocol starting with building the institutional capacity on a limited pilot sector basis, then scaling up to
cover more sectors and ODS, and finally implementing comprehensive national ODS phase-out programs across all
sectors and types of ODS. The Relevance of Design was assessed as only modest because the design of the project
(including its Results Framework and key outcome indicators) did not adequately capture the project’s scope and
breadth of actions and how the inputs and activities were logically linked to achieving the ultimate desired outcome of
eliminating all consumption of ODS in Tunisia. The Efficacy of the project’s objectives was rated as substantial in
terms of continuing to build the institutional structures and capabilities, and the regulatory platform required to support
implementation of the National Ozone Phase-out Plan. In terms of demonstrating the viability of non-ODS alternative
technologies, this was rated as negligible since it was unreasonable to attribute reductions achieved under “Phase 3”
of the project to the release of the first and second MLF tranche payments. Finally, the Efficiency of project
implementation was rated as modest since a more realistic cost-effectiveness value of US$ 5.85 was higher than
estimated and about medium compared to other similar projects elsewhere. Coupled with the long delays in rolling out
the demonstration projects, this accounted for the rating. Thus, the overall Outcome rating under the revised project
scope and objectives is Moderately Unsatisfactory .

Weighted Average of Overall Outcome Rating : In accordance with OPCS/IEG Harmonized Guidance for restructured
projects with revised objectives, the numerical value for the Outcome rating under the original project scope and
objectives (Moderately Satisfactory) is “4” while the Outcome value under the revised project objectives (Moderately
Unsatisfactory) is “3”. Multiplying these values by the percentage of project disbursements (US$ 3.53 million) at the
time of the project’s restructuring on March 28, 2007 results in 67 percent assigned to the Outcome rating under the
original project scope and objectives and 33 percent under the revised project objectives. Thus, the mathematical
formula for arriving at the Overall Outcome rating is:

                                         (0.67 x 4) + (0.33 x 3) = 2.7 + 1.0 = 3.7

Since the resulting product is higher than 3.5, it is rounded up and the whole number value assigned is “4”.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   It is considered very unlikely that industries formally using ODS would revert back to using them given that CFC
technologies are now obsolete and alternatives to halon and CFCs have been demonstrated to work and are more
cost-effective (not to mention legal). Moreover, global production of CFCs and halon has ceased since 2010, and
since Tunisia has no productive capacity of its own, it would be completely dependent upon imports, which are
prohibited and effectively policed by the Customs Bureau. ODS-compatible equipment has been destroyed and sold
for scrap metal by the enterprises. The Government’s continued commitment to reforms has resulted in its
acknowledge leadership in the region as evidenced by its adoption of all subsequent amendments to the Montreal
Protocol since 1989 and awards it has received in recognition of its achievements.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    There were no apparent shortcomings in the preparation and appraisal of the project by Bank staff. The Bank
provided high-quality technical support to the Government of Tunisia in terms of staff time and financial resources
to ensure proper preparation and appraisal work based on its experiences and expertise gained in other countries
where it was developing similar projects that it was able to transfer to Tunisia. It was able to identify opportunities
to apply best practices for ODS phase-out in three prioritized manufacturing and service sectors that accounted
for more than 97 percent of ODS consumption in Tunisia at the time of project appraisal. It also accurately
anticipated and attempted to mitigate the three main risks that were identified during appraisal: (i) delays
implementing start-up activities due to the Environment Ministry’s (ANPE) lack of familiarity with Bank procedures,
particularly with its financial management and procurement system requirements; (ii) the reluctance of
participating manufacturers to cooperate with ANPE in sharing their experiences with ozone-friendly technology
with other firms in their industries; and (iii) the difficulty of enforcing accreditation of refrigeration and
air-conditioning technician’s training and qualifications. However, despite the fact that these risks were effectively
identified during project appraisal, issues still arose during implementation regarding staff levels and qualifications,
financial management, and procurement.

The team also worked effectively with the Montreal Protocol’s policy and technical criteria, as well as within the
guidelines of the Bank’s own Operational Procedures 10.21 and the Multi-Lateral Fund’s financing procedures and
requirements. The main feature of OP 10.21 was the “umbrella” grant agreement (TF 21936) instrument that had
been created specifically for the Bank’s Montreal Protocol’s investment projects, thereby allowing them to develop
additional subprojects in other sectors that would be required to meet the Montreal Protocol’s phase-out targets in
the future.

The original project design laid out a simple and straightforward project structure and processes to implement its
activities focused on achieving its desired outcomes and stated objectives. This was reflected in good marks for
both the relevance of the project’s original objectives and design parameters. The original sole Global
Environment Objective Indicator: Elimination of the consumption of ozone depleting substances through the
introduction of ODS-free technologies, to track progress towards the target of zero ODS consumption by 2010 was
both measurable and meaningful. It was later complemented by two other GEO Indicators that provided more
comprehensive coverage of the other aspects of the project objective: (i) Elimination of the consumption of ozone
depleting substances through the introduction of ODS free technologies; and (ii) Develop an institutional
framework within ANPE to regulate the elimination of ODS in Tunisia. With clearly defined annual phase-out
targets by which to measure progress towards the project’s goal, the project monitoring and evaluation system
provided the structure for regular monitoring of progress made from the baseline values for these key indicators.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    During the 18 years of project implementation, the Bank’s supervision of this project began on a successful
trajectory as evidenced by the initial string of solid “Highly Satisfactory” or “Satisfactory” ratings for Implementation
Progress in the first 22 (out of 32) Implementation Status Reports between 1994 and 2007. Continuous support
and advice to address weaknesses in the procurement capabilities of implementing agencies and the procurement
processes used in the country was provided by Bank procurement staff based in Tunis. However, problems began
to occur during the last few years of project implementation, in particular, due to the frequent rotation of Task
Team Leaders (TTL) and continuously evolving Bank procedures, particularly in the area of fiduciary
requirements. For example, between 2005 and 2011, there were at least nine different TTLs for this project (ICR,
footnote 5 on pg. 11). This lack of continuity in leadership and ownership of the project within the Bank had a
deleterious impact on project implementation success and damaged relations with the Client, who referred to
supervision missions as “fulfilling a “watchdog” function and not as a partnership in which the Bank contributed
value-added to enhancing project performance” (ICR, pg. 26).

No mid-term review was carried out by the Bank, nor were the reasons for this explained, although it was noted
that this was not an unusual practice for Montreal Protocol-sponsored ODS phase-out projects during this period
of the 1990s and 2000s.The ICR states (pg. 12) that, “It has not been possible for the ICR Team to uncover the
exact reasons for this.” However, they did note that this was not an uncommon experience for other
first-generation Montreal Protocol projects, such as the Republic of Turkey Second Phase-Out of Ozone Depleting
Substances Project (P038404; 1991-2007), the China Ozone Depleting Substance Phase-Out Project III
(P003409; 1995-2008), and the Jordan Ozone-Depleting Substances Phase-Out 2 Project (P049706; 1995-2012).


In addition, at critical stages during project implementation, the Bank chose to continue to extend and fund the
project rather than restructure or close it in order to assess its strengths and weakness, and use those lessons
learned as a base upon which to design and implement the next ODS phase-out project. This failure to either
restructure or close the project was not an unusual practice for Montreal Protocol projects managed by the World
Bank at the time, but it resulted in a number of significant implementation challenges from 2005 onward once
implementation of the National Ozone Phase-out Plan began in earnest. For example, an increasing number of
activities were incorporated into the existing project structure, causing supervision to get increasingly difficult as a
complicated structure of 16 disbursement categories and 8 project component categories no longer reflected
actual specific sub-projects activities. This led to confusion for both the project teams and the Client. Were it not
for the generally positive supervisory role played by the Bank in the first two-thirds of project implementation, the
quality of supervision rating would have been even worse.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government’s commitment to the project was demonstrated in large part by its ratification of the Montreal
Protocol and all subsequent amendments (London in 1990, Copenhagen in 1992, Montreal in 1997, and Beijing in
1999) and its adoption as national legislation that created the conditions and enabling environment for the National
Ozone Bureau to fulfill its mandate since Tunisia was not required to contribute any of its own money to the
project. Even though it pledged to provide US$ 0.53 million in counterpart funds to the project, the ICR states that
at the time it was written, the amount of this “Input had not been received from Client” (Annex 1, Table B footnote).
The Government also adhered to the Protocol’s annual ODS consumption reduction targets and met its ultimate
goal of completely eliminating the consumption of CFCs and halons by the deadlines established in the Montreal
Protocol’s phased schedules (that is, by January 1, 2010). Overall, the Government of Tunisia showed a strong
and consistent degree of high-level ownership of the project, and made ODS phase-out a national priority by
building the national institutional capacity to comply with the objectives of the Montreal Protocol and by promoting
greater public awareness about the importance of protecting the ozone layer.

     Government Performance Rating                             Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Within the Environment Ministry (ANPE), the National Ozone Bureau (NOB) maintained support from its senior
managers due in part to persistent high-level political support, to the project’s demonstrated progress towards
established targets, and to its own self-generated financial support from the Multi-Lateral Fund of the Montreal
Protocol. The NOB/ANPE also introduced a licensing and import quota system, considered within the MP
community to be the single most important piece of legislation to control ODS consumption. It diligently fulfilled the
project’s M&E data collection, analysis, and reporting requirements, coordinated the necessary policy reforms and
project implementation issues with other relevant agencies through the National Ozone Committee and bi-lateral
efforts, and provided effective public education and outreach materials to both the general public and targeted
private sector actors about the need to protect the ozone layer.

However, project implementation performance suffered from several significant short-comings. In some instances,
the NOB lacked a more accountable institutional process for setting up sub-project and expenditures were not
always transparently accessible in the project’s electronic tracking system. In addition, several companies
interviewed by the ICR team noted that there was insufficient follow-up and implementation support in the
operation of non-ODS equipment and technological processes introduced by the project. One of the main
challenges faced by the Bank’s project team in the latter part of project implementation was the NOB’s reluctance
to facilitate direct supervision missions’ visits to the previous beneficiaries to obtain key information about the
overall ODS program in Tunisia. The ICR (pg. 29) also states that “Insistence by the World Bank team on
improving contact with their counterparts was only sporadically successful in ameliorating the situation, and
greater use of higher official channels did not yield a lasting, satisfactory outcome.” In fact, it noted that a June
2011 request by a Bank supervision mission to meet with senior ANPE management was not granted, and that the
NOB’s procurement performance was unsatisfactory due to a number of problems encountered, forcing the project
to close with a large undisbursed balance (US$ million).

     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The design of the M&E system, and the methods proposed for data collection, analysis and reporting were sound
and directly linked to clearly defined project outcomes and both elements of the project’s objectives. All three GEO
indicators selected were meaningful and measurable, and the plan for gathering baseline and monitoring data on
them was well-designed and quite feasible to carry out. Since M&E data collection and analysis was designed to be
carried out by the National Ozone Bureau, it was well-embedded institutionally and had sufficient stakeholder
ownership. The M&E sampling plan design was not described nor were comparators presented in the ICR.

     The project was designed several years before formal results frameworks were required for Bank-supported
      projects, such as this one. However, by the early 2000s, the World Bank had begun introducing the use of results
      frameworks to improve project design, M&E and greater focus on results. Despite this, opportunities that arose
      after 2000 to develop a more formalized Results Framework showing the logical chain of cause and effect were
      not taken advantage of by the project team or Bank management. These included moments when significant
      changes were made to the project’s direction and objectives in 2003 and 2007

b. M&E Implementation:
  Baseline data was collected as projected and indicators were measured according to plan. The National Ozone
Bureau regularly collected data on enterprise-specific sub-project phase-out levels achieved, as well as through ODS
imports records kept by Customs authorities. This allowed the Government to meet its reporting obligations under the
Montreal Protocols, and this information was used in turn by the ExCom of the Multi-Lateral Fund of the Montreal
Protocols to assess Tunisia’s compliance status. In addition, this information was also used to prepare and submit
project completion reports and annual audit reports required under the National Ozone Phase-out Plan agreement.
Three independent audit reports were prepared during the project period covered by the NOPP with the last available
audit report validating the Government’s claim that reported consumption levels of halons and CFCs had dropped to
zero, by 2007 and 2010, respectively.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The only information provided in the ICR that demonstrated how M&E data informed management decision
affecting the project’s strategic direction or tactical implementation were the revised outcome indicator targets based
on updated information of ODS usage in targeted industrial sectors. It was not possible to ascertain how M&E data
collected demonstrated whether the theory of change within the project’s logical framework had been empirically
shown since exogenous factors had not be isolated or discounted from the likely impact of the project. Overall, the
M&E system was well-designed and implemented according to plan, but the information gained from it did not allow
clear attribution to be made to the project’s interventions.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a Category “B” project according to the Bank’s Operational Policy for Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01) since its overall impacts were expected to be environmentally positive. A partial environmental
assessment was prepared in 1993, which revealed that the main issues to be addressed were related to worker
health, safety and awareness in the aerosol and foam industries, which use flammable and potentially toxic gases in
their manufacturing processes. These were mitigated by adhering to international standards for the safe handling of
flammable and potentially toxic substances. Otherwise, there were no significant environmental or social safeguard
issues identified during preparation or implementation. Implementation Status Reports consistently reflected
“satisfactory” compliance with OP 4.01 safeguard requirements.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Initial weaknesses in the procurement capabilities of the implementing agency – the National Ozone Bureau (NOB),
were remedied through capacity building training provided to their procurement staff, and through the continuous
support and advice provided by Bank procurement staff based in Tunis. By the second phase of the project, the
situation had improved markedly and procurement was carried out satisfactorily due to the increased capacity of NOB.
Eventually, the 16 disbursement categories spread across 8 different project components did not match evolving
project activities and became unduly complicated and confusing. The resulting complexity and confusion over which
disbursement category to allocated project expenditures led to situations where in one case, the amount in one
particular disbursement category (2.G) actually exceeded the amount allocated to that category by 84 percent. It was
recommended that the categories be changed and simplified, but no further actions were taken. In addition, the
project did not submit its last Interim Financial Report, and the Bank’s team was unable to receive the requested
report. As a result, the project did not legally comply with its agreed FM requirements.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None apparent.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory              Moderately             The split assessment weighted the first
                                                        Satisfactory           and second phases of the project more
                                                                               heavily (66%) than the third phase
                                                                               (33%) when the NOPP was
                                                                                implemented, on the basis of
                                                                                disbursements made at the time of
                                                                                restructuring. This resulted in an
                                                                                Outcome rating of Moderately
                                                                                Satisfactory. See Sections 4 and 6 for
                                                                                fuller explanations.

          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately          As the project outcome rating is
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory and the Quality
                                                                                at Entry rating is Satisfactory, even
                                                                                though Quality of Supervision is rated
                                                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory, the overall
                                                                                Bank performance rating is Moderately
                                                                                Satisfactory as outlined in the
                                                                                harmonized ICR guidelines.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Importance of separating phases of programmatic series of projects into individual operations . Similar to
     another ODS project in the Philippines (P-004406) supported by the World Bank as an executing agency for
     the Montreal Protocol, this project consisted of two distinctly different operations. As such, it should have been
     closed properly, or restructured at the very least, following the completion of the first demonstration phases in
     targeted economic sectors and before the final phase of this project when the National Ozone Phase-out Plan
     was initiated. This final phase involved entirely new activities, a vastly expanded scope, and different types of
     beneficiaries across all sectors of the economy. Had project work in those new sectors been carried out as an
     entirely new project, then they would have been submitted to the Bank’s full appraisal process, which might
     have highlighted some of the design and implementation challenges of rolling out the National Ozone
     Phase-out Plan during the preparation and appraisal processes.
    Importance of doing solid institutional capability analyses beforehand , especially when dramatically
     increasing project complexity or the difficulty of implementation . The last phase of the ODS project saw a
     dramatic increase in the overall complexity and difficulty of implementation with the roll-out of the National
     Ozone Phase-out Plan. Adding to this complexity were many disbursement categories (16 in all) that did not
     match up with the changing nature and scope of project activities and newly introduced procurement
     processes that deviated from normal procedures prescribed under the Bank’s Guidelines. All of these new
     requirements and responsibilities confused and overwhelmed the assimilative capacity of the National Ozone
     Bureau in the Environment Ministry (ANPE). The lesson learned here is the importance of accurately and
     realistically assessing the capabilities of institutions asked to carry such expanded responsibilities, especially
     when the nature and scope of the underlying project objectives change significantly.
    Taking a comprehensive approach to a well -defined development objective . One of the most important
     lessons to be learned from this project is the importance and effectiveness of integrating the various aspects or
     components of the project within the context of a clear and simple objective: to eliminate the consumption of
     ODS by implementing a National Phase-out Plan. Technical and financial assistance from the MLF of the
     Montreal Protocol or the Bank could not have achieved that objective alone. The Plan’s successful
     implementation required the integration of an enabling legal and regulatory framework, targeted public
     education and outreach efforts, institutional capacity building efforts, and technical and financial assistance
     offered as incentives to encourage voluntary private sector participation and commitment by demonstrating the
     effectiveness and viability of non-ODS alternatives in order to phase-out the use of ODS in Tunisia. This was
    also the case in a similar ODS elimination project in Malaysia (P-004212). Often, projects that attempt to
    combine a number of different types of interventions can lose their focus by pursuing too many different
    activities, but in these instances that was not the case due to the project’s having a very well-defined and clear
    objective.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was comprehensive, consistent with the ICR Guidelines, and results-oriented. It clearly presented the
evidence supporting its arguments and ratings, which were logical and reasonable, while acknowledging the difficulty
of attributing the results achieved solely to project interventions due to the effect of other exogenous factors in helping
to reach the project’s objectives. The quality of the analysis was quite good given that much of the institutional
memory had been lost over the project’s long, 18-year history and the high turnover rates among its many task team
leaders, making it very difficult to piece together all of the reasons or origins of the many changes in the scope and
direction of the project over time.

There were some minor flaws uncovered in reviewing the ICR, including the use of inappropriate baseline data,
confusing project cost and financial support data, and the lack of descriptive information about specific activities
undertaken as part of the National Ozone Phase-out Plan. First, the baseline data that was used against which to
assess the project’s achievement of its development objective (that is, to eliminate the consumption of ODS in
Tunisia) was taken from the record high year of 1991 (1,045 tons of ODP/yr). This was three years prior to the start of
project approval and effectiveness date of June 14, 1994. By this time, ODS consumption levels were already less
than half of that total (508.1 tons of ODP/yr) for CFCs. Second, project cost and project financing data presented in
the ICR was confusing and not always internally consistent, requiring the Evaluator to request clarification from the
last Task Team Leader and ICR team. Third, there was no description of the non-ODS technological alternatives that
were introduced into targeted sectors of the economy as part of the National Ozone Phase-out Plan (NOPP) in the
ICR, even though the revision of the project grant agreement in March 2007 to encompass the implementation of that
Plan represented a “dramatic shift” in the direction of the project. This made it very difficult to assess the causal link
from inputs and activities to outputs and outcomes leading to the achievement of the project’s revised objectives.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
