Document of
The World Banik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7244-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
July 14, 1988
Population and Ruman Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
AFRICA REGION
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by rients only in the perfomsance of
thewr ofcbl duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed withut World Bank autorizaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$             -   CFAF 275 (February 1988)
CFAF 1 Million  -   US$ 3,636.36
MEASURES
1 m       1.09 yd.
1 m2  -   10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2 =   0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank (Banque Africaine de Developpement)
AFVP        Association Francaise des Volontaires du Progres (French
Association of Volunteers for Progress)
APE         Association des Parents d'Eleves (Parents' Association)
BEPC        Diplome d'Etudes du Premier Cycle (General Secondary School
Diploma)
BREDA       Bureau Regional pour l'Education et le Developpement (UNESCO
Regional Office for Africa)
CED         Council for Educational Development (Conseil pour le
Developpement de l'Education)
CI          Community Initiatives (Initiatives Communautaires)
CRFC        Centre Regional de Formation Continue (Regional In-service
Training Center)
DNPE        Direction Nationale des Projets d'Education (National Directorate
for Education Projects)
ENI         Ecole Nationale des Instituteurs (Primary Teacher Training
College)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Assistance and Cooperation
Agency)
FRC         Financial Rehabilitation Credit (Credit de Rehabilitation
Financiare)
IP          Implementation Plan (Plan d'Execution)
MEN         Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National
Education)
NGO         Non Governmental Organization (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
OED         Operations Evaluation Division (Division des Operations -
Evaluation)
PPF         Project Preparation Fund (Fonds de Preparation de Projet)
SOE         Statement of Expenditures (Etat des Depenses)
FISCAL YEAR                            SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                    October - July



F0R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I
1I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A    Overview  . . . .        .                            * *    1
1.  Severe Constraints on Sectoral Rehabilitation and
Development    .  .   2 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
2.  _.or Quality and Internal Efficiency of Primary
Education. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
3.  Weak Capacities for Sector Management and Planning . . .  4
C.  The Government's Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
D.  The Bank Group's Role . . . ............. ....   6
III* THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  *.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
A.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
1. Policy Framework  . . . . . . . .                          8
2. The Rehabilitation of Primary Education  . . . . . . . .   9
3.  Rehabilitation of Sectoral Management and Planning  . . . 14
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan. .&. . . . .  . .... .  . .  16
C.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 16
1.  Preparation, Management and Institution Building . . . . 16
2.  Procurement, Disbursements and Special Account . . . . . 17
3.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . 2n
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ......   ..............  ......  20
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . 21
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission from the
Unesco-World Bank Cooperative Program that visited Chad in February 1988. The
mission members were Richard Sack (Mission Leader/Education Plamner/
Consultant), Ben Mady Cisse (General Educator/UNESCO), Patricia Dambrine
(UNESCO intern), Yohannes Habtu (Economist/Consultant), and Ane Stam
(Architect/Consultant). This report was prepared by Richard Sack and
completed by Francoise Delannoy (Task Manager), Bernard Abeille (Architect/
Implementation Specialist) and Diana Risen (Operations Assistant).
Ninette Sage-Vargas was responsible for the processing of the report.
This document has a rsticted distibution ind may bc used by recipients onl in the performance
of their officia dutis Its cotents may not oherie be disosd withot Word  au n.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1      Basic Data
2-1    Structure of the Education System
2-2    Organization Chart of the Ministry of National Education
2-3    Statistical Profile of the Education System
2-4    Comparative Education Indicators
2-5    Primary Education Projections:  Enrollments, Teachers and Costs
2-6    Budget of the Ministry of National Education, 1986/87188/Examen du
Budget du Ministere de l'Education Nationale, 1986/87188
3-1   COvernment Policy Letter, Annual Implementation Plan and Review
Criteria
3-2    Support to Community Initiatives for Primary School
Construction/Renforcement des Initiatives Communautaires pour la
Construction Scolaire
3-3    Provision of Didactic and Pedagogic Yiaterial/Renforcement des
Materiels Didactiques et Aides Pedagogiques
3-4    Support to Teacher Training and Supervision/Developpement de la
Formation, de la Supervision et de l'Encadreuent des Enseignants
3-5    Support to Education Sector Management, Planning and Policy
Development/Renforcement des Capacites de Gestion, de Planification et
d'Elaboration de Politique Educative
3-6    Regular Salary Payments for Civil Service Teachers
3-7    Project Management and Coordination
3-8    Project Costs and Financing Plan
3-9    Implementation Schedule
3-10 Project Monitoring/Dispositif de Suivi
3-11 Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Services
3-12   Summary of Foreign and Local Fellowships and Training
3-13   Procurement Procedures
3-14   Disbursement Profile
3-15   Summary of Contributions from Government and Local Communities
Map:   IBRD 20901



I
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMYAR
Borrower         The Republic of Chad
Beneficlarys    Ministry of National Education
Credit Amount:   SDR 16.2 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proleot
Description:     The project would rehabilitate primary education and the sector's
management/planning capacities while laying the groundwork for
future development. Rehabilitation is urgently needed to ensure
the effectiveness and sustainability of the investments made by
local communities during the war years, when Government support
was interrupted, and to facilitate planning for long-term,
balanced expansion. The Project would help the Government to
gradually develop and implement a policy framework aimed at (a)
increasing sectoral resources; (b) promoting their cost efficient
use; and (c) avoiding the emergence of major sectoral
distortions. Within this context, the project would:
1.  Rehabilitate prtimary education with limited increases in
public recurrent expenditures bys
(a) assisting and encouraging local community initiatives
through the provision of financial and technical
support for the reconstruction and/or rehabilitation
and equipping of about 1,000 existing classrooms in two
zones of the country; and
(b) Improving the efficiency and quality of schooling
nationwide through (i) the provision of about 600,000
low-cost books and teacher guides, (il) the training of
about 1,750 'supplementary" teachers employed directly
by the local communities; and (4ii) a strengthening of
teacher supervision and support including the training
of 600 school directors;
2.  Rehabilitate sector manaaement and plannina capacities by:
(a) strengthening MEN's capacities to plan and manage its
resources, through reinforcement of the services
responsible for personnel management, budget
preparation/execution/control, planning, and strategy
development/monitoring; and
(b) strengthening MEN's capacities to manage and implement
projects through continued support to the recently
established National Directorate for Education
Projects.



ii
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(net of taxes and duties)
Estimated Costs 1/                              Local     Foreign   Total
------(USS million)------
1.  Rehabilitation of Primary Education:
(a)  Support to Community Initiatives
for the reconstructionlrehabilitation
and equipping of about 1,000
classrooms                             2.3        7.2      9.5
(b)  Provision of textbooks, teacher
training and teacher supervision       2.6        4.9      7.5
Sub-total                4.9       12.1      17.0
2. Rehabilitation of Sector Management
and Planning Capacitiess
(a) StrengtheninuL MEN's capacities
to plan and manage resource use        0.2        1.4      1.6
(b)  Project directorate                   0.1         2.5      2.6
Sub-total                0.3        3.9       4.2
Total Base Costs                                5.1       16.0     21.1
Physical Contingencies                      0.2        1.2      1.4
Price Contingencies                         0.7        2.0      2.7
Sub-total                0.9        3.2       4.1
Total Prolect Costs                             6.0       19.2      25.2
_tm 
i Net of taxes and duties, of which the project is exempt.
Financint Plan                                  Local     Foreign   Total
--------(US$ million)----
IDA                                             3.9       18.1      22.0
Government                                      0.6        0.8       1.4
Local Communities (in kind)                     1.5        0.3       1.8
TOTAL                    6.0        19.2      25.2
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA FISCAIt YEAR
1989   1990    1991    1992    1993      1994
----------(US$ million)-----------------
Annual:                     5.7     4.4     4.7      3.8      3.4      -
Cumulative$                 5.7    10.1    14.8    18.6      22.0     22.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       Not Applicable
Pro1ect Benefits
and Risks:       The Project would invigorate the country's education sector,
while providing Government with both the means and the tze to
engage La sectoral planning.  Developing a partnership between
the communities and the Government for the rehabilitation of
pr_mary education would provide a new impetus for sectoral
development without placing excessive pressure on Government's
recurrent budget. Quality Improvements in primary education
vould have a positive effect on pupil achievement and internal
efficiency at all levels of the educatio- system, and eventually
on labor productivity. Strengthening of sectoral management and
planning would ensure a cost effective allocation and use of
resources, as well as the elaboration of a sectoral strategy
adapted to the needs of the economy and the resource constraints
of the country. The main risks are: (a) the continuation or
intensification of the war, which would continue to deprive the
sector of needed resources; (b) a decrease in community inputs,
in the face of possible centralizing tendencies by MEN following
a sudden influx of resources; and (c) the limited absorptive
capacities of both MEN and the communities.  The latter two risks
have been minimized through appropriate design (eligibility
criteria for project funding, sharing of responsibilities,
training and monitoring).



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government of Chad has requested IDA assistance in financing a
project aimed at meeting the urgent need for rehabilitation of primary
education and the education sector's institutional capacities while laying
the groundwork for its balanced development. Total project Costs are
estimated at US$25.2 mi1lion equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of US$19.2 million. The Government would
contribute US$1.4 million, parental associations would contribute in kind or
in cash the equivalent of US$1.8 million, and the remaining US$22.0 would be
financed by IDA.
1.2     The project would be the fourth IDA operation in the education
sector. After an IDA reconnaissance mission (July 1987), which established
its broad outline, the project was identified, prepared and appraised by
three missions from the UNESCO-World Bank Cooperative Program. The Basic
Data sheet is in Annex 1.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.       Overview
2.1      The education system consists of: (a) a six-year primary cycle; (b)
four years of lower, and three years of uspper, secondary schooling; and (c)
higher education at the University of Chad in N'Djamens or abroad.  Teachers
are trained at the upper secondary level for service in primary schools and
at the university level for service in the secondary schools. There are five
Primary Teacher Training Schools (ENI) and twenty regional in-service teacher
training centers (CRFC). All formal schooling is administered by the
Ministry of National Education (MEN). As a result of the war years, however,
the local communities have spontaneously assumed major responsibility for the
maintenance and development of schooling, as well as for financing of school
construction and employment of "supplementary' teachers who presently
comprise about 452 of all primary school teachers. Koranic education also
exists throughout the country and there is an undetermined number of private
Arabic schools teaching religious and literary subjects. There are twelve
vocational training centers administered by MEN and others administered by
other Ministries (Labor, Agriculture, Public Works, etc.). Annex 2-1 shows
the structure of the education system, and Annex 2-2 provides the current
organization chart of MEN.
B.       Main Sectoral Issues
2.2      The l&rge-scale disruption of regular Government services resulting
from the period of disturbances (1979-82), and the subsequent slow recovery,
have led local communities to play a critical role In the financing and
operation of the sector. The provision of resources for primary schooling by
the communities has been an important achievement, but this spontaneous and
somewhat anarchic development raises questions of efficiency, quality
standards and sustainability. It is necessary to supplement these resources



2
if minimal conditions for efficient schooling are to be met. Chad has one of
the lowest primary enrollment ratios in Africa (about 452 gross, not
including the Arabic schools, with a female participation rate of only 282).
However, there is sustained demand for primary education, with the annual
rate of increase in enrollments having averaged about 71 for the past three
years. The main issues are: (a) severe constraints on sectoral
rehabilitation and development, due to insufficient sector financing and
uncertaint!es about the effectiveness and sustainability of the community
inititivee; (b) low quality and internal efficiency of primary education,
due to a dilapidated physical environment and the lack of quality inputs
(textbooks, teacher training, pedagogic supervision); and (c) weak capacities
for sector management and planning. These issues are discussed below. Annex
2-3 shows the statistical profile of the sector (statistics prior to 1985 are
practically nonexistent), and Annex 2-4 gives comparative indicators.
1.   Severe constraints on sectoral Rehabilitation and Development
2.3      Insufficient sector financina.  Government financing for education
is low in both absolute and relative terms. Total budgetary resources are
extremely limited (only 5 percent of GDP after the cotton crisis) and heavily
vulnerable to the fluctuations in vorld cotton prices. In addition,
education was allocated only 11.11 of the Government's 1988 budget (11.81 of
the 1987 budget), as compared to an average of 211 (in 1983) for Francophone
Africa. Some 512 of the 1988 education budget is allocated to primary
education (432 for Francophone Africa). The unit cost per pupillyear for
primary education is estimated at US$10.8 (about 62 of per capita GNP), as
compared to an average of US$49 for Francophone Africa (232 of per capita
GDP). 1/   Teacher salaries account for about 96Z of the unit cost, leaving
little for operations, supplies, didactic and pedagogical materials. Even
then, salaries are paid at only 602 of nominal rates established in 1967 (at
1002, primary teacher salaries range from 4 to 25 times per capita GNP) and,
in all but two provinces, are paid after an average of (currently) two months
delay because of discrepancies between budgeted payment orders and revenue
availability (this also is the case for most other civil servants). Unit
cost is low partly because it does not account for the compensation provided
by commnities to the approximately 2,500 'supplementary' teachers employed
directly by the commmnities (this compensation varies from a nominal amount
to about CFAF 20,000 per month). These teachers, who represent about 452 of
all primary school teachers, can be found in all schools (about 252 of them
are in the estimated 480 "spontaneous" schools, the others in the 1,320
government recognized schools); they do not have civil service status, have
generally low levels of schooling, are untrained and have limited incentives
(para 2.4). Government plans to pay them a CFAF 9,000 month stipend were
never fully imp'tmented. The analysis in Annex 2-5 indicates that if current
trends (in enrollment and rates of internal efficiency) continue, unit costs
will further decline by an average of about 1.41 per year for the next five
years as the share of supplementary teachers increases to a projected level
of 4,076 in 1990191, or 472 of all primary school teachers. The annual
1/     These figures are based on the approved budget and do not account for
the low implementation rate which is estimated at 601 for 1987. At this
rate, real educational expenditures for 1987 would have been 6.91 of total
budget.



3
contributions (in cash and kind) of the local communities to their schools
(through the Paronts' Associations - APEs) are roughly estimated at 152 of
Government's current education budget (para 2.4), or 25X of current
estimations for implemented 1987 expenditures. Short-term prospects for
significant improvements in Government revenues are not bright and, as the
simulations in Annex 2-5 show, salary claims resulting from programmed output
of the ENIs will increase 362 over the next five years. This situation
leaves the Government little room for maneuver. While chese budgetary
constraints bave prevented growth in secondary and higher education, thore is
a potential for structural distortions at these levels, as a considerable
number of secondary graduates are unemployed and the number of higher
education students is large (about 2,140 in Chad and 1,850 abroad).
2.4      Precarious community initiatives.  Along with other sectors,
education received no Government support during the period of 1979 to 1982
when Government virtually ceased to function. In order to assure minimal
basic educational services at the primary level, the local communities,
generally in the form of APEs, took the initiative to maintain and even
establish schools. The community initiatives, along with donor activities,
assured survival of the sub-sector. Financed entirely under these
initiatives, APE support to both public and private ("spontaneous") schools
has included the construction of about 3,500 classrooms (or about two-thirds
of the pzesent stock), the employment and maintenance of about 2,500 teachers
(abc-.t 452 of the present stock), provision of supplies and materials, and
school management. The extent and nature of these activities vary widely,
depending mainly on local social and econamic factors. Over the past ten
years, the cash outlay of the communities on sahool construction alone is
estimated at US$3.3 million, representing the only domestic investment in the
sector. Howe-er, the communities' poverty and lack of technical expertise do
not allow the %%stablishment of adequate conditions for efficient and
effective schocling. For example, in many villages the same classrooms
(investment cost US$3,000 per classroom) have to be rebuilt frequently for
lack of sound construction methods, good materials, and financing, leading to
discouragement and high annual amortization costs (US$738 per year), taking
into account costs of maintenance, repairs and replacement over a 25 year
period. On the other hand, where Government services undertake school
construction under current standards, the investment cost is very high
(US$25,000 per classroom) for an annual amortization cost of about US$2,000
per year. This situation threatens educational standards at all levels of
the system as well as the austainability of communities' willingness to
continue financing education.
2.    Poor quality and internal efficiency of primary education
2.5       Associated with the low level of expenditures is poor quality and
internal efficiency. Repetition rates are estimated at 302 for grades one to
five and the first grade drop-out rate is estimated at 202. For 1,000 pupils
entering first grade only about 402 complete primary school. It is costing
the system about 16 pupil-years of schooling to produce one primary school
graduate. This situation can be attributed to the poor learning conditions
in the schools which, in turn, are a function of the level and structure of
the capital and recurrent unit costs (paras 2.3 and 2.4). Contributing
factors ares (a) the dilapidated state of school buildings which are not
maintained due to the communlties' limited resources and expertise, are



4
overcrowded, with an average student/teacher ratio of 60/1, and are poorly
(when at all) furnished; (b) the severe shortage of textbooks in the schools
where there is one full set of books for about nine pupils and where only one
teacher in about four has adequate teaching materials; (c) the extensive use
of supplementary teachers selected on the basis of shared values rather than
qualifications (para 2.3), about 911 of whom have less than four years of
secondary schooling, who have no pedagogical training and who receiv- no
pedagogic supervision and support; and (d) the conditions of work of the
civil service teachers whose motivation and teaching time are reduced by the
delays in salary payments for about 80X of them (para 2.3) and who often mako
several trips to the regional centers in quest of their salary. Annex 2-5
shows the impact of this situation on enrollment rates and costs.
3.   Weak Capacities for Sector Management and Planning
2.6      MEN is faced with two pressing and complementary needs: (a) ensuring
current operations in the context of intensive efforts toward rehabilitation
while (b) developing policies, strategies and plans for the future of the
sector in the context of increasing investment from external sources and
continued financing by the local communities. These needs should be met by
strengthening MEN's operational capabilities while developing its capacity
for more conceptual tasks.
2.7      MEN's organizational structure (in place since 1974) is poorly
adapted to the needs of the current situation. Decision making is highly
centralized, although the Ministry controls and mobilizes a fraction of
overall sector financing and staff (para 2.3); this, compounded by
difficulties in internal transport end communication, makes MEN relatively
ineffective outside of the capital. The staff of about 6,000 (28Z of the
civil service), including teachers at all levels and a high proportion of
administrators (about 102), needs to be rationalized for increased
productivity. The collection of statistics needed for planning and
management is deficient, and the flow and use of available information within
MEN is highly concentrated. Finally, the functions and roles of MEN's
departments, services and institutes are poorly defined and articulated,
leading to inefficiencies and redundancies at the central level and with the
regional level (7 principal inspectorates).
2.8      Weak sectoral management and planning.  Lack of training and
resources seriously impairs MEN's capacity to effectively accomplish its
administrative, managerial and planning functions. Most MEN administrative
staff were recruited from the ranks of the teaching force and have little or
no training in administrative matters and managerial methods. They lack the
material means (supplies and transport, for example) to implement their
assigned tssks. All (with the exception of directors) are paid at 602 of
nominal 1967 salaries and most of those outside the capital experience
payment delays. Areas of particular concern are: (a) budget preparation,
implementation and control procedures, which are inaccurate, less than
transparent, and cumbersome, resulting in erratic projections,
unsubstantiated cuts, and a low rate of implementation; (b) personnel
management, which should be made more efficient in order to increase
productivity (improvement of the two functions of budget and personnel,
combined with increased liquidity availability, would also be essential to
eliminating the delays in salary payment); and (c) educational planning,



5
which needs to be strengthened in order to rebuild a reliable statistical
base for current rehabilitation efforts and to develop analytical
capabilities. Improvement is required in these areas of concern in order to
develop, on the basis of appropriate policy options, a long-term, global
strategy aimed at rehabilitating the sector in line with the economy's human
capital needs, and the country's aspirations and resource availability. Such
a strategy would be a valuable tool for aid coordination and the mobilization
of additional external and domestic resources.
2.9      Limited prolect implementation capacity.  Project implementation
until recently was affected by a high staff turnover, the absence of a full
time project director, and the scarcity of experienced managers and
accountants. This has resulted in costly delays, while supply-driven donor
activities proliferated without systematic planning, with little or no
attention being given to broader or long term implications. Although in
recent months, there has been a marked improvement in the quality and
commitment of the staff, and a senior project administrator has been
internationally recruited, there is a need to build on this and to further
strengthen the capabilities of the recently created National Directorate for
Education Projects (DNPE) to ensure that all aspects of future projects
(policy, physical, institutional) are implemented efficiently, within the
proposed time and cost frame.
C.       The Government's Sector Stratela
2.10     There is a broad consensus in the Government thats (a) education is
an investment in human resources which should be a top priority (official
budget figures place MEN in third position, behind the Ministry of Defense
and the Presidency, with 35.11 and 12.61 of Government's budget,
respectively); (b) there is a need to consolidate the gains of the past few
years that have come from the initiatives of the local communities and on
which broader rehabilitation efforts should be based; (c) the current state
of the education system presents an opportunity to reshape the system on the
basis of well-considered policies; (d) primary education is the first
priority, given (i) its overall impact on development, (ii) the strong demand
for it, (iii) its scope for improvement with minimal impact on the recurrent
budget, and (iv) the time lag needed for improvements at higher levels
(studies and reforms); and (e) the elaboration of a long term, global
strategy is the next priority. Government recognizes that rehabilitation
needs to include both the development of a policy framework and institution
building. A 'Cellule de Reflexion sur le Developpement de l'Education' (CED)
has recently been established to steer that process. Strengthening primary
education would have equity and efficiency effects by reaching out into the
rural areas and improving quality not only at the primary level, but also at
higher levels. To achieve this objective, MEN policy is to encourage the
community initiatives and the supplementary teachers by providing development
resources to the former and training for the latter, including admission to
the primary Teacher Training Colleges (ENIs) for some of the more qualified.
For secondary and higher education, the Government's policy is to adjust the
flow of graduates to the absorptive capacity of the labor market and to
restore quality. Other forms of training -- vocational, apprenticeship, and
to a lesser degree, technical -- would be emphasized in search of a low-cost,
flexible formula developed jointly with private sector employers.



6
2.11     Although not fully elaborated, Government's strategy is realistic,
recognizes its limited room for maneuver and warrants support. The proposed
project would constitute a first step in its implemenitation in that it would
sustain the process of community-based sectoral development while allowing
Government to consolidate its capacities to organize the deployment of local
resources, regulate the delivery of educational services, and formulate long-
term policies and plans.
D.       The Bank Group's Role
2.12     By March 31, 1988, IDA commitment to Chad amounted to US$125.09
million for 20 operations; in addition, a US$47.0 million credit for a road
reconstruction p.oject was approved on April 26, 1988. These included three
Credits for education -- Credit 126-CD for US$2.2 million, signed in 1968;
Credit 251-CD for US$2.7 million, signed in 1971; and, Credit 811-CD for
US$8.3 million, signed in 1978. These projects have supported primary
teacher training, agricultural technician training, vocational training,
technical secondary education, educational materials for primary education
and education management and planning.  The first two education projects were
completed in eight years (each four years later than planned'.  The third,
which was interrupted during the war, was reactivated in June 1985, and is
still being implemented; it is expected to be completed by June 1988,
following two one-year extensions of the closing date which have eventually
brought about substantial improvements in management (para. 2.9). The
completion and audit reports (PCR: March 30, 1979; OED Project Performance
Report No. 2616 of July 31, 1979) elicited the following lessons: (a)
Government experienced difficulty implementing the projects and meeting its
financing obligations toward the projects and the operation of project
institutions; (b) project institutions were inadequately staffed; (c) the
projects were over-ambitious in concerning themselves with components in
agricultural, technical and general education dispersed in three different
towns; (d) there was insufficient supervision by IDA missions which relied
largely on consultants; and, (e) more donor coordination could have provided
financing for needed technical assistance. These lessons have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
2.13     IDA's current country strategy concentrates on supporting Government
efforts toward rehabilitation at the macro and sectoral levels with a view to
assisting it to establish a framework for balanced development. In line with
this approach, the proposed project would complement, and implement at the
sectoral level, actions initiated at the macro level by the proposed
Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) including improvements in public
finance management and the development of a sector strategy covering an
investment program, as well as policy and institutional improvements. It
would address the need for primary education rehabilitation, beginning with
two zones of the country, and for institution-building. A series of repeater
projects -- possibly financed by other donors -- would be needed to achieve
countrywide coverage and to further the process of policy and institutional
development, while a policy-based sector operation is proposed for FY92.
2.14     Donor coordination.  There is widespread donor support for the
Government strategy and, pending its elaboration, the development of the
proposed operation has played an important role in promoting a unified
apr oach to the rehabilitation of primary education. Coordination with the



7
French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop;ratton (FAC), whose aid strategy has been
centered on consolidating the fragile achievements of the Chadian education
system in recent years (management, Government teacher training system,
textbooks) was instrumental in allowing speedy preparation of this operation.
In addition, FAC will supplement selected project items (paras. 3.4, 3.9,
3.13), namelys (a) books equal in number to those in the project's textbook
component; and (b) specialist services for (i) teacher training and
supervision and (ii) the strengthening of personnel management; these inputs
have not be included in the costs of the proposed project. The Association
Frangaise des Volontaires du Progras (AFVP) will contribute six volunteers to
work on the physical rehabilitation component (para 3.3), which was developed
in close coordination with an on-going Swissaid (an NGO) project. The
African Development Bank (AfDB) is: (a) preparing a project, designed to be
complementary to the IDA credit, to rehabilitate secondary/higher education
and to support primary education in the northernmost region of Chad; and (b)
financing studies on (i) MEN's organization and methods (para 3.12), (ii)
educational costs and financing, and (iii) the relationship between education
and the labor market. The European Development Fund is preparing an
integrated development project covering a region close to the capital that
will include a primary education component similar to that financed by IDA.
UNDP is financing the preparation of the Human Resources Round Table (FY89),
which will provide a focus for the development of a full-fledged sector
investment strategy (para 3.14) and lead to a definition of the roles of the
various donors.
III. THE PROJECT
A.       Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1      The proposed project is intended to meet the urgent needs of
rehabilitation while paving the way for future development. It is designed
to: (a) assist Government to gradually develop and implement a policy
framework aimed at alleviating the financial and efficiency constraints in
the sector; (b) rehabilitate primary education by (i) providing financial and
technical support to local communities in two zones for the replacement or
rehabilitation and equipping of their primary schools; and (ii) improving the
efficiency and quality of primary schooling countrywide through the provision
of low cost teaching and learning materials to schools, the training of
eligible supplementary teachers, and strengthened supervision for teachers;
and (c) rehabilitate the planning and managerial capacities of MEN by
reinforcing (i) its organization and management, budgeting, personnel
management and planning functions, including the introduction of streamlined
procedures aimed at ensuring regular and timely salary payments for civil
service teachers; and (ii) its directorate responsible for project
implementation and management.
1. Policy framework
3.2      Despite the emergency nature of this operation, the Government
wishes to establish future sectoral development on a sound policy basis so as



8
to (a) gradually increase sector financing, (b) promote cost-effective use of
the increasing resources which will be made available to it in the years
ahead through budget support, including assistance through IDA's proposed
FRC in FY89, and (c) avoid the emergence of major distortions in resource
allocation and use in the education sector. To achieve these objectives, the
following basic principles, trends and target zones have been agreed; they
have been specified whenever possible for the first project year (PY1); for
the following project years, they would be quantified more precisely on the
basis of detailed sector work to be conducted during PYl:
(a) To increase sector financing:
(i) gradually raise the share of education in the total
Government recurrent budget (presently 11.12); for PY1, MEN's budget should
grow at least at the same rate as the general Government budget; if the
amount of the Government budget declines, the amount allocated to education
should be maintained at its 1988 nominal level (about CFAF 2,850 million);
and
(ii) leverage the investments of the communities and increase
their productivity through appropriate financial and technical support (under
the proposed project);
(b) To promote cost-effective use of sectoral resources:
(iii) within the sectoral budget, protect the share of primary
education (51X) to develop that level of education; keep track of changes in
the share of scholarships (14.6%) and endeavor to transfer this function as
much as possible to external donors; increase the share of materials (4%) to
improve quality; for PYI (i.e., budget year 88), the public sector financing
plan supported through the FRC proposes to raise that share to 13X (from CFAF
110 to 350 million);
(iv) monitor teacher recruitment and promotion so as to contain
the growth of salary expenditures, ensuring regular Government teacher salary
payments (at least 60% of the 1967 level) as reflected in the 1988-89 public
sector financing plan formulated under the FRC, which includes Government
current expenditures as the highest expenditure priority, and following
agreed upon procedures (para 3.13); providing adequate incentives to
supplementary teachers through admission of 200 of the more qualified among
them to the existing teacher training colleges (ENI) over the life of the
project, and monitoring their training under the project (para 3.6); and
(v) develop at. experimental plan for testing double-shift
teaching in urban areas and multigrade teaching in rural areas, to be
presented at the 1989 Annual Review;
(c) To avoid the emergence of major structural distortions:
(vi) monitor the flow of new entrants into secondary and higher
education with a view to maintaining their number near the 1988 level in
secondary general education (about 2,000), law/economics and management
(about 120) and arts and humanities (about 150), while encouraging students
to go into appropriately designed secondary technical and vocational programs
and scientific/technical higher education; and



9
(vii) agree with IDA each year on a three-year rolling
Investment program reflecting the priorities set in the Government's Letter
of Intention described below, and submit to IDA each year the draft annual
budget law for the education sector reflecting agreed-upon budgetary targets
(par, 3.21).
These basic principles, which would set the stage for future policy-
based operations in the sector, are established in a Letter of Intention
approved by the Council of Ministers and signed on June 17, 1988 by the
Minister of Plan and Cooperation. Monitoring would be the responsibility of
the Minister of Education and the Director-General of MEN. At negotiations,
Government gave assurances that it would implement these principles as part
of the Implementation Plan (IP) which would be monitored at joint Government-
IDA Annual Reviews (para 3.21). Annex 3-1 gives the Government's policy
letter review criteria.
2.   The Rehabilitation of Primary Education
3.3      Support to Community Initiatives (CI).  In order to improve the
physical environment for primary schooling, while increasing the
effectiveness and guaranteeing the sustainability of the educational
investments made by the local communities (usually APEs), the project would
support a regionally based program to rehabilitate about 1,000 primary
classrooms (about 40X replacement construction, and about 601 rehabilitation,
with no increase in the number of classrooms). This component would be
partly based on the pilot operation of Swissaid, an NGO that has successfully
supported the CI/APE's self-help efforts over the past four years, and would
draw from the experience of similar community-based, construction/
rehabilitation/maintenance programs introduced in a number of countries
(Burkina, CAR, Senegal and Niger) in the region under on-going IDA-financed
projects. The design, based on low-cost construction techniques relying
largely on local materials and labor, is expected to allow for a 25-year
economic life with limited maintenance, and to lower unit capital costs by
about two-thirds of the present level for comparable standards applied by
Government services for school construction. As a result, annual
amortization costs are expected not to exceed US$600 per classroom. The
specifics of the rehabilitation program are as follows:
(a) Zones and Regions: Two zones have been selected for the
project (North and South), each comprising two regions - Abeche and N'Djamena
in the North, and Moundou and Sahr in the South. They have been selected on
criteria of regional equity, logistics, demographics, other donor activities
and, in the case of N'Djamena, proximity to MEN officials to gain their
direct involvement in the development of CI/APE activities. Each region
comprises two or more administrative divisions (hprefectures"). Coverage and
phasing of activities in the four regions has been determined with
Implementation constraints taken into account;
(b) Organizational structure: In order to ensure efficient
coverage of the designated regions, the component would have a three-tier
structure with: (i) decentralization of operational activities at the local
level, comprising two mobile field units charged with providing direct
technical support to the CI/APEs; (ii) operational coordination and



10
supervision, including site identification, at the regional level with two
Regional Centers to be created in Abeche and Sahr during the first two years
of the project, and additional Regional Centers to be created in N'Djamena
and Moundou, beginning in the third year of the project; and (iii) overall
support and financial management from the Project Implementation Unit (DNPE)
in MEN. Each Regional Center would report to the principal inspector, and in
order to become operational would be staffed by a project-financed
specialist/coordinator (senior construction specialist from Association
Francaise des Volontaires du Progres - AFVP), a community organizer
(volunteer AFVP) and a swall support staff. Each of the two field units
would be staffed by two brigade leaders (building specialists supplied by the
AFVP) and two instructors (national contractuals specialized in construction
and to the extent possible experienced in community development). A
coordinator (a specialist in construction with five to ten years experience
in similar projects, provided by the AFVP) located in the Planning office
would ensure coordination of the construction program and liaison with the
Regional Centers and with the DNPE. The DNPE would be responsible for:
planning, coordinating and managing procurement and logistics, and monitoring
the program (including its budget);
(c) Selection process: Access to project funding for construction
activities would be open to all CI/APEs meeting specific eligibility criteria
including: the extent and capacity (in cash and/or in kind) of CI/APE
support to their school (building and teachers); a school catchment area
sufficiently large to allow at least 45 pupils per classroom; skills and
experience in construction methods; provision of community inputs (local
construction materials, labor, fencing, sanitary facilities and teacher
housing); and teacher availability;
(d) Implementation strategy: Prior to launching the construction
program, in the first project year (PY1), the Regional Centers and their
field units would conduct sensitization and information campaigns and
experiment with pilot programs involving the construction of a limited number
of classrooms in the capital of each zone covered by the project. In the
subsequent project years, each center is expected to intervene in a maximum
of 50 communities during each two-year cycle. Construction/maintenance
guides would be produced covering the use of local materials and appropriate
technological approaches, describing the processes of sensitization,
training, and information gathering as well as the responsibilities of the
CI/APEs, a model contract and a minimal accounting plan. Applications,
prepared with the assistance of the field units, would be screened by the
Regional Centers and then submitted to DNPE for inclusion in the annual
implementation program. Following approval by the DNPE, each application
would then be the object of a simple contract between the CI/APE Support
Center and the individual CI/APE, specifying the nature and extent of the
support granted and the rights and obligations of both parties;
(e) The communities would provide funds and/or labor in the rural
areas, and would provide an increased financial contribution in the urban
areas to allow for the recruitment of local artisans/contractors, while the
project would provide as a matching contribution construction materials,
advice and assistance to ensure good building standards. Annex 3-2 describes
the construction and rehabilitation program;



11
(f) The credit would finance: (i) imported construction materials
and transport necessary for the reconstruction of about 400 classrooms and
the rehabilitation of about 600 classrooms in the two project zones,
representirng a maximum of 65Z of total construction costs (estimated at
US$6,500 per classroom) and 45% of total rehabilitation costs (estimated at
US$2,000 per classroom); (ii) guides for construction/rehabilitation/repairs
and maintenance; (iii) funds for small repairs and attention to accidental
damage up to a maximum of 60 classrooms; (iv) school furniture and a kit of
basic supplies to classrooms constructed and rehabilitated under the project;
(v) specialist services (5 man-years for the national coordinator, 10 man-
years for the two regional coordinators, 20 man-years for the national
building instructors and 50 man-years of support staff); (vi) office space,
furniture, equipment, vehicles and operating costs related to the two
Regional Centers and the two field units. During negotiations, the
Government and IDA agreed on the detailed implementation plan for the first
year of the project, and the agreement to be reached with a volunteer
association. At negotiations, Government gave assurances that by June 30,
1989, it would submit to IDA for comments the various guides on
reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance to be produced by the project
and after taking IDA's comments into account, would introduce them
immediately in the two project zones. Signing of an agreement between
Government and a Volunteers' Association would be a condition of disbursement
for the primary school construction component.
3.4      Textbook Provision.  In order to improve pupil achievement and
internal efficiency (para 2.5) countrywide, the project would provide about
600,000 textbooks and teachers guides for primary education, to be matched by
an equivalent supply from FAC. The resulting total of about 1.2 million
books would represent one set of books in basic disciplines (reading,
mathematics, basic science) per three pupils. Given the urgency of the
needs, the textbooks would be those already in use, which are satisfactory
for the present curriculum. A kit of pedagogic materials would also be
provided for each classroom. The design of a distribution and storage system
would benefit from an evaluation (financed under the PPF) of the textbook
component of the Third Project which will provide information on the current
distribution of books and the conditions under which they are used, including
a proposal for an experimental book rental arrangement aimed at extending the
useful life of the books. Distribution and storage of the books would be
organized through inspectorates with further storage capacity developed in
the schools. The books would be procured during the first project year (PY1)
and distributed in time for the beginning of the 1989/90 school year.
3.5      The project would finances  (a) the procurement of about 600,000
textbooks and teacher guides along with pedagogical materials (such as
slates, rulers, notebooks, pencils); (b) the purchase of about 4,000 metal
trunks for delivery and storage of the books; (c) 6 man-months of specialist
services, and (d) two months of training abroad for the production of a
guidebook for teachers in the use of the first grade reading book; a study
that would take into account experiences in other African countries with low-
cost pedagogical materials which could be produced or assembled by teachers;
and the monitoring of the distribution of books and materials, including the
effectiveness of the cost recovery mechanism. Annex 3-3 provides details for
this component.



12
3.6      Teacher training.  The weakest link in the teaching force in Chad is
the group of uncertified, although experienced, supplementary teachers (para
2.3). As an incentive to the communities who finance these teachers, and to
maximize the return on the proposed book investment, the project would
support a countrywide training program targeted at about 1,750 of the more
qualified among these teachers (combined with appropriate
incentives). 21 The program would include general studies (mainly in French
and mathematics), pedagogy and practice teaching, in roughly equ6l
proportions. Teachers would be selected from two distinct groups of the
supplementary teachers: about 1,550 who have at least two years of secondary
schooling but not the first-cycle secondary school diploma (BEPC); and about
200 who possess the BEPC. Upon completion of their training course, the
BEPC-holders would qualify for admission to ENIs (into existing slots) after
which they would be admitted into the ranks of civil service teachers (para
2.10). This policy is expected to encourage secondary school leavers from
increasingly high grades to join the ranks of the supplementary teachers,
thus raising their average skill level.
3.7      The training process would entail: (a) the selection of
supplementary teachers eligible for the training, the criteria for this
selection being previous schooling, teaching experience and age; (b) the
organization of the courses which will be the responsibility of the Institut
National des Sciences de l'Education (INSE) and will involve two ten-day
sessions, one two-month session and eight pedagogical days ("Journees
padagogiques") for those without the BEPC and twice that for those with the
BEPC. The courses will be held in about 25 places (20 Regional Teacher
Training Centers - CRFC - and 5 Primary Teacher Training Colleges - ENI) over
four years of project implementation. For those without the BEPC, 250 would
be trained during PY1, 500 in each of PYs 2 and 3, and 300 in PY4; for the
holders of the BEPC, 100 would be trained during PYs 1 and 2 and another 100
during PYs 3 and 4, after which the program could be continued under other
donor financing. Available staffing would consist of 150 trainers
(inspectors, teachers in the ENIs and CFRC staff) in PY1 and 230 thereafter;
(c) the training of 120 teachers occupying, but not trained for, the
functions of inspectors and pedagogical advisors who will conduct the
training in addition to the fully qualified inspectors and advisors; and (d)
the monitoring and evaluation of the training, which will be the
responsibility of the Directorate of Elementary Education (DEE). In order to
permit early implementation of this component, design of the training courses
for the supplementary teachers started during the first semester of 1988
under a Project Preparation Fund (PPF). The project would finance: (a) civil
works to repair the 20 CRFCs; (b) about five vehicles and 20 light
motorcycles, office supplies and equipment for the CRFCs; (c) six months of
2/     It is not Government policy to integrate these teachers into the civil
service, nor does this appear to be the expectation of the supplementary
teachers themselves. Government policy is that, except for the 200 holders of
the BEPC diploma, there will be no linkage between training and salary.
Furthermore, given the difficult situation on the labor market (a
considerable number of unemployed secondary school graduates in N'Djamena
alone), it is unlikely that these teachers will quickly desert their teaching
activities.



13
specialist services (-omplementary to those to be provided by FAC and the
Swiss bilateral); (d) six months of fellowships abroad for INSE and DEE
staff; (e) the development and provision of training materials; and, (f)
maintenance costs and transportation for trainers and trainees. At
negotiations, Government gave assurances that it would create a Training
Monitoring Unit within DEE by December 31, 1988. Details are given in Annex
3-4.
3.8      ReRular salary payments.  In order to increase actual classroom
presence and the level of motivation of civil service teachers, while
improving budget ex.cution procedures, the project would support
establishment on a pilot basis of streamlined procedures to ensure that
teacher salaries are paid regularly. These procedures are described in para
3.13.
3.9      Improvement of teacher supervision.  In order to improve the
effectiveness of the pedagogic support and control provided to teachers, and
to reinforce the impact of teacher training, the project would support a
countrywide program of training for supervisory staff including the seven
principal inspectors, the 34 elementary inspectors, the CFRC personnel, the
pedagogical advisors and the school directors.  Training would be provided
for: (a) about 60 inspectors and CRFC directors who would participate in ten
day seminars each year; topics would include planning, coordination and
delivery of the teacher training activities; school management; educational
administration and planning; teacher supervision and support (FAC would
provide specialist services for these seminars); (b) about 600 school
directors who would attend one month courses covering aspects of school
management in the context of APE activities, methods of pedagogical support
(especially for the supplementary teachers), and preventive maintenance of
textbooks and buildings. The project would finance: (a) civil works to
repair some of the inspectorates; (b) fees for national consultants for
delivering and developing the above program; (c) travel and maintenance costs
for participants; and (d) selected related operating costs. Details are in
Annex 3-4.
3.10     In order to improve field level administration, management and
supervision, the project would provide the seven principal inspectorates and
the 34 elementary inspectorates with the basic materials (such as paper,
books, and pencils), transport and operating budgets needed for their
efficient operation. This would allow the inspectorates to effectively
discharge, in addition to the pedagogical supervision of teachers and school
directors, a number of implementation and managerial activities including:
the collection of statistics and other information used for planning and
personnel management; and the organization and monitoring of project
activities such as teacher training and the distribution of textbooks and
pedagogical materials. The project would finance: (a) about 41 vehicles and
34 light motorcycles; office equipment and materials (such as typewriters,
duplicating machines, paper, and pencils); and (b) selected incremental
operating costs. Details are in Annex 3-4.
3.   Rehabilitation of Sectoral Management and Planning
3.11     In order to ensure the productivity of the investments which will be
made in the physical and qualitative rehabilitation of primary education, as



14
well as to set the stage for the longer-term development of the sector, the
project would strengthen MEN's capacities for: (a) sector management and
planning including budgetary procedures, personnel management and salary
payment, the collection and analysis of statistics and other relevant
information and the elaboration of a viable sectoral strategy; and (b)
project implementation and management.
3.12     Sector Management and Planning.  This component would support
improvements in the structure and operation of MEN, and wouid reinforce more
particularly the Directorate for administrative and financial affairs (DAAFM)
and the Planning Unit of the Ministry. AfDB is financing a study of MEN's
organization and methods (O&M) which will conduct a functional diagnosis
leading to recoimmendations for a more efficient ministerial structure and for
improved managerial practices. The project would support implementation of
these recommendations. Details are in Annex 3-5.
3.13     Improving personnel management and budget preparationlcontrol
procedures would be part of Government's efforts to reform its public
expenditure system under its structural adjustment program. Combined with an
improved liquidity position due to anticipated non-project funding, this
would also allow the regular payment of salaries. To help achieve this, the
project would do three things. First, it would help streamline and tighten
budgetary procedures within the MEN through more accurate, computerized
budgeting and the monitoring of expenditure and costs. Second, it would
complement an on-going FAC operation, which provides specialist services,
training and fellowships to DAAFM to modernize personnel files, and to
improve the management of staff and the monitoring of personnel costs.
Third, the project would support an experimental set of measures to
accelerate the present salary payment procedures. The proposed measures
would simplify the current system, and give more responsibility to the
regions, delegating payment responsibilities to MEN officals, while
maintaining sufficient controls. Details are in Annex 3-5 and Annex 3-6.
3.14     In order to support the planning and implementation of the
rehabilitation effort as well as the process of strategy development, the
project would strengthen the capacities of MEN's Planning Unit for (a)
collecting, processing and analyzing statistics; (b) school location
planning; and (c) conducting evaluations and financial analysis. In
addition, the project would create a "Study Fund" to finance studies, applied
research, pilot programs and national fora identified by the "Cellule de
Reflexion sur le Developpement de l'Education' (para. 2.10) and aimed at
formulating a global human resource development strategy. The key documents
outlining this strategy would be presented to the donors at a UNDP Round
Table scheduled for FY89, and further refined in the following years. Topics
would include (i) the costs and financing of education, including local
financing and efficiency measures such as double shift and multigrade
teaching; (ii) external efficiency, including ways to increase access to
primary education, especially for girls, and low cost alternatives to general
secondary and higher education; and (iii) internal efficiency, including
pedagogic content and delivery systems. Details are in Annex 3-5.
3.15     The project would finance: (a) two vehicles (one each for the DAAFM
and the Planning Unit), 4 micro computers (one each for the DAAFM and the
Planning Unit, and two for the Payroll Unit in the Finance Ministry);



15
specialist services in O&M, budgetary procedures and the new salary payment
system, and planning; (c) 48 months of training abroad for senior MEN
personnel (24 months in management training and 24 months in educational
statistics/planning and school mapping); (d) two in-country two-week seminars
for 50 middle level personnel on the new O&M procedures; (e) one-three day
seminar at the central level and two regional one-day seminars to train the
MEN staff who would assume new responsibilities i% salary payments, and
intersectoral seminars on human resource development for planners and policy
makers; (f) one reserve fund deposited in a Bank account in Abeche and one in
Moundou, each equivalent to one month's salary bill for the corresponding
zone (total: US$80,000), and to be matched by an equal, timely transfer from
the Treasury (these funds would serve as buffers in case of administrative
delays in the transfer of liquidities from the capital); a "Study Fund'
(about US$0.3 million) to finance the development and elaboration of a
sectoral strategy including pilot operations; and (g) selected incremental
operating costs. At negotiatiorns, Government gave assurances that it would
(i) submit the O&M study to IDA for comments by December 31, 1988, and begin
implementation of agreed-upon recommendations within the following six
months; (ii) ensure regular payment of education personnel salaries on the
basis of at least 60% of their nominal 1967 base; and (iii) prepare a scheme
to ensure regular payment of salaries to education personnel, submit such
scheme to IDA by November 30, 1989 for comments and implement said scheme as
agreed with IDA; and (iv) formulate a global human resource development
strategy, and discuss said strategy with IDA prior to the UNDP Roundtable
scheduled for FY89. A condition of disbursement for the Study Fund (Category
7) would be approval by IDA of each additional activity proposed for
financing under the said Fund. Proposals for such activities would be
submitted to IDA by Government with a detailed description, implementation
plan and cost estimate.
3.16     Project Directorate.  In order to ensure efficient and timely
implementation of project activities, the recently established National
Directorate for Education.1 Projects (DNPE), which is responsible for
externally financed projects, would be strengthened. Implementation of
individual project components would be entrusted to the concerned MEN
directorates. DNPE would coordinate their activities and would assist them
in the areas of procurement, financial administration, documentation,
monitoring, reporting, liaison with IDA and preparation for the Annual
reviews. DNPE's full-time national Director and current staff of two (plus
four support personnel) would be assisted by an experienced internationally
recruited project administrator/manager, and an education specialist (also
internationally recruited) who would also be assigned to the DNPE for
pedagogic coordination, including monitoring of the policy frame-work.
Training of technical staff in MEN departments would occupy at least 25Z of
their time. To ensure adequate standards in auditing and reporting, the
project would provide the necessary consulting services to help the project
management team establish monitoring and reporting systems (para 3.27). The
Credit would finance: (a) office furniture and equipment; (b) about 150
manmonths of specialist services in project coordination, management and
monitoring, procurement, accounting, auditing and future project development;
(c) 6 months of training abroad in project management; (d) study visits
abroad to observe project management in other countries in the region; and
(e) selected incremental operating costs. During negotiations, Government
gave assurances that it would maintain at all times during project



16
implementation the full-time positions of Project Director, Accountant,
Project Administrator and Educator/Education Planner, and keep these
positions filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA. It is a condition of credit
effectiveness that a contract with the Educator has been signed and that the
Project Administrator is in plact in DNPE. Details are in Annex 3-7.
B.       Prolect Costs and Financing Plan
3.17     The total project cost is estimated at US$25.2 million equivalent,
(net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$19.2
million (76%). Base cost estimates are at February 1988 prices, using the
May 1988 exchange rate. The project would be financed by IDA (US$22.0
million or 87.3% of total costs), contributions by local communities to
primary school construction (US$1.8 million or 7.1%), and budgetary
allocations from the Government (US$1.4 million or 5.6%). The local
communities would help finance the school rehabilitation and reconstruction
program through in kind (labor and local building materials) and/or c:ash
contributions. Government contributions would cover the scholarships of 200
qualified supplementary teachers to the ENIs (para 3.6) and 16% of operating
costs. The major assumptions in arriving at the cost estimates, as well as
the detailed costs by component, by cost category and financing source are
given in Annex 3-8.
3.18     Recurrent expenditure implications will be minimal.  Since the
project will rehabilitate only existing schools where there is a demonstrated
capacity for CI/APE financing (in kind and/or in cash), it will not generate
increased teacher needs beyond those to service existing demand. Newly
recruited teachers will be either community-employed supplementary teachers
or those already programmed for places in the ENIs. Project trained
supplementary teachers are not expected to receive Government compensation.
No new civil service positions will be created by the project. Improvements
in internal efficiency would not directly affect recurrent costs but would
reduce the unit costs/graduate. However, continued financing of programs
such as primary school reconstruction, teacher in-service training, and
maintenance of an adequate level of operating costs (fuel, vehicle and
equipment maintenance costs, and consumables), could not be assumed by the
projected Government budget after 1993 and would require renewed external
support.
C.       Proiect Implementation
1.   Preparation, Management and Institution Building
3.19     Status of proiect preparation.  A Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
has been established to prepare three studies (on the CI/APEs, the
distribution of textbooks, and salary pqyments) needed for Appraisal and
subsequent project processing. The PPF is also financing start-up activities
for the training program. Plans for primary schools have been developed and
tested by the on-going Swissaid construction program. They allow for optimal
use of local construction materials such as sun-dried bricks, stone and wood,
depending on location. Furniture and equipment lists are being prepared.
Criteria for site selection for the physical rehabilitation component (para.
3.3) will be based on the CI/APE study. Terms of reference for the provision



17
of specialist services have been prepared for PY1 and recruitment is
underway. The implementation and disbursement schedules are based upon
experience derived from the three previous IDA education projects.
3.20     ImplementatiouL plans and schedules.  Implementation and coordination
responsibilities are given in para. 3.16. Given the low absorptive
capacities of some Directorates, the scope of the project has been adjusted
to allow for execution in about six years, including six months for
finalization of accounts and withdrawals. Project completion is expected by
June 30, 1994, with a Closing Date of December 31, 1994. Implementation
details for each component are given in Annexes 3-1 through 3-7.
3.21     The project would have a phased implementation plan, with the
following basic underlying principles: (a) a detailed Implementation Plan
(IP) for each project year, to be submitted to IDA for review two months
before the end of the project year; (b) the IP to be based on regular
monitoring of project implementation by the DNPE, including a process of
feedback from the regional centers and the inspectorates; and, (c) Annual
joint Government - IDA Reviews of (i) performance during the previous year,
and (ii) the proposed IP, including the framework of Government's sectoral
policy, investment strategy and recurrent budget. At negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it would implement the project according to
the arrangements and schedules agreed to, including joint Government-IDA
Annual Reviews to be held no later than November 30 each year to review past
IP performance and agree on a new IP for the next year. Details are in
Annexes 3-1. 3-9 and 3-10.
3.22     Specialist services and training.  The project would provide a total
of 76 manyears of specialist services (of which 371 by local staff) and a
total of 710 years of fellowships for training (99% locally). Terms of
reference for specialists for PY1 were agreed upon during Negotiations.
Revisions for subsequent years can be made during the joint Annual Reviews
and in the ensuing annual IPs. Details regarding specialist services and
training are given in Annexes 3-11 and 3-12.
2.   Procurement, Disbursements and Special Account
3.23     Procurement.  The Procurement Table below shows expected procurement
by category of expenditure.



18
AMOUNT AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
Procurement Method
NO  CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE          ICB          LCB        OTHER     N/A  TOTAL COST
----------(USS million)-----------------
1.   Civil Works
a. General contracts            -          1.37         -          -         1.37
(Parts A, B1, B3)               -        (1.37)         -          -        (1.37)
b. Building materials           4.46      0.19          0.10       -         4.75
(Part A)                       (4.46)    (0.19)        (0.10)      -        (4.75)
c. Community inputs             -         -             -          1.76 *   1.76
(Part A)                                                          (0.00)   (0.00)
2.  Furniture and non Pedagogical
Equipment                       2.25      0.60          0.20       -         3.05
(Parts A, B, C, D)              (2.25)    (0.60)        (0.20)      -        (3.05)
3.  Pedagogical Material
a. Textbooks                     -         -             2.96       -         2.96
(Part B1)                        -         -            (2.96)      -        (2.96)
b. Pedagogical equipment         0.14       -             -         -         0.14
(Parts A, B)                    (0.14)     -             -          -        (0.14)
4.  Specialist Services and Study Fund
a. International and local
specialists                   -         -             -          4.58      4.58
(Parts A, B, C, D)               -         -             -         (4.58)   (4.58)
b. Volunteers                    -          -             -         0.64      0.64
(Part A)                         -         -             -         (0.00)   CO.OO)
5.  Training and Fellowships         -          -             -         2.86      2.86
(Parts A, B, C, D)               -         -             -         (2.57)   (2.57)
6.  Operating Costs                  -          -             -         3.10      3.10
(Parts A, B, C, D)                         -             -         (2.60)   (2.60)
TOTAL COSTS                     6.85      2.16          3.26      12.94    25.21
TOTAL FINANCED BY IDA          (6.85)    (2.16)        (3.26)    (9.75)  (22.02)
NOTE:  Capital letters and figures in parentheses show the respective components and
amounts financed by the IDA credit.
* Local communities' contributions for the school construction program.
Part A:  Support to Community Initiatives;
Part B:  Improving quality and efficiency;
Part Bls Provision of textbooks;
Part B2: Teacher Training;
Part B3: Inspectorates;
Part C:  Strengthening management and planning capacity of MEN;
Part D: Project directorate.



19
3.24      Contracts for imported construction materials, furniture, equipment
and vehicles totalling about US$6.85 million equivalent, including
contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement,
except as follows: (a) civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and
construction material contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
and, (b) local transportation services for construction materials, furniture
and equipment.  These items would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
the Association provided that: (i) the aggregate cost of these contracts did
not exceed US$1.5 million equivalent, including contingencies; (li) all bids
were opened in public and bidders' representatives were allowed to be
present; (iii) criteria for evaluating bids was set out clearly and
communicated to all bidders; (iv) no preference margin was granted to
domestic manufacturers or suppliers; and (v) foreign firms were authorized to
bid in accordance with local procedures. Taking into account the need for
continuity, textbooks financed by IDA would be procured after limited
international consultation with at least three publishers in accordance with
the Association's guidelines (para 3.4). Civil works estimated at US$3.4
million would be scattered over 330 sites and would be only partly carried
out by contractors. Reconstruction or rehabilitation of the 1,000 primary
classrooms would be executed through self-help organized by APEs. Regional
Centers would provide technical advice in planning and executioa of works.
The reconstruction and/or rehabilitation of the CRFC and school inspection
offices, representing about four percent of total civil works and involving
32 sites, would be carried out under contract on the basis of LCB procedures.
Details on procurement procedures are in Annex 3-13.
3.25      Disbursements.  The regional disbursement profile is eight years.
However, given the fact that the project was designed as an emergency
rehabilitation operation, the IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of
six years on the basis of the categories shown in the table below. The
estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3-14, and Annex
3-15 provides a summary of national contributions to the project.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of                   Proposed IDA       2 of Expenditure
Expenditure                    Allocation        Financed by IDA
(US$ million)
1.  Civil works contracts            5.6             1001 (of expenditures)
2. Furniture and non-
pedagogical equipment            2.8             1001 (of expenditures)
3.  Pedagogical materials            2.8             100Z (of expenditures)
4.  Specialist services              3.5             100l  (of expenditures)
5.  Training and fellowships         2.4             1002 (of expenditures)
6.  Operating costs                  2.3             851  (of expenditures)
7.  Study fund                        .3             1001 (of expenditures)
8.  PPF                               .575
9.  Unallocated                      1.72
Total       22.0
_gggm



20
3.26      Special account.  To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in
an amount equivalent to CFA francs 340 million or three months of
expenditures, funded by IDA, would be established in a local commercial bank
acceptable to the Association. Replenishment applications to IDA would be
aggregated into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent and would be fully
documented except for expenses related to contracts and/or expenditures
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be reimbursed against
certified statements of expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation would be
retained at the DNPE for random review by IDA supervision missions and for
annual audits. Reimbursement applications would also L.:>ludl a statement of
account movements since the last application, with the balance certified by
the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation showing that the balance
represented the original amount less payments awaiting reimbursement of small
working advances. Given the availability of the Special Account, the minimum
application for direct payments would normally be for the equivalent of
US$20,000. The Government would submit replenishment requests to the Special
Account on a monthly basis or whenever the account was diminished by one-
third, whichever came first.
3.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.27      The Project Director would maintain a project account that would be
subdivided into expenditures incurred for each component. Accounts to cover
operating costs would be established at the regional level for the two
Regional Centers and consolidated at the project level (para 3.3). At
Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) all project accounts,
including all disbursements against SOEs, would be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government would submit the
audit reports to IDA for review by SeptemDer 30 of each year, beginning in
1989; (c) the audit reports would certify that the funds were used for the
purposes for which they were provided; and, (d) the Project Director would
submit to IDA (i) semi-annual reports on project implementation and
expenditures, the first one by December 31, 1988 and covering PPF activities,
(ii) a detailed annual review of project implementation activities, as well
as a detailed annual implementation plan for the subsequent year's
activities, the first one by September 30, 1989; (iii) special reports on a
need basis and, (iv) a completion report within six months of the IDA credit
closing date.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The project would invigorate the country's education
system, while providing Government with both the means and the time to engage
in sectoral planning. Developing a partnership between the communities and
the Government for the rehabilitation of primary education would ensure the
efiectiveness and sustainability of the communities' investments, and would
provide a new impetus for sectoral development without placing excessive
pressure on an already overstrained Government budget. Restoration of
acceptable quality standards in primary education would have a favorable
impact on pupil achievement and internal efficiency at all levels of
education and eventually on labor productivity. Reinforcement of MEN's
managerial and planning capacities would promote more efficient mobilization
and use of public, private and external educational resources. Finally, the
formulation and implementation of a strategy involving sound policy



21
principles, a well-coordinated investment plan, and a realistic institution-
building program would set the stage for balanced development of an education
system capable of responding flexibly to Chad's specific needs for human
capital formation, within the limited resources available. This would
improve the country's long-term development prospects.
4.2       Risks.  A risk common to all Chad operations is that the war, now
localized in the northern part of tae country outside the project area, might
intensify, drawing more fiscal and institutional resources toward the
military effort. Two risks more closely related to the proposed project
concern (i) possible demobilization of the local communities, if a sudden
influx of resources leads to centralizing tendencies in the Government; and
(ii) limited absorptive capacities of MEN and the local communities, which
are also solicited by other externally financed projects. The project design
is expected to reduce these risks, through shared financial and managerial
roles between Government and the local commv.aities, rigorous criteria for
access to and control of project funds, capacity reinforcement, and careful
monitoring.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       Durina negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed ons (a) the
policy statement (para 3.2); (b) the detailed IP for PY1 (para 3.3 (f)); (c)
the agreement to be reached with a volunteer association to help implerqnt
the program of reconstruction and rehabilitation of primary schools (para 3.3
(f)); and (d) the terms of reference for specialist services (3.22);
5.2       During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) implement, as an integral part of the IP, the basic
principles of the sectoral policy framework, which would be monitored at
joint Government-IDA Annual Reviews, including timely submission to IDA of
the draft three-year rolling investment program for the education sector and
the draft annual budget law for the education sector (para 3.2);
(b) implement the project according to the arrangements and
schedules agreed to, including
(i) a joint Government-IDA Annual Review, to be held no
later than November 30 each year to review past IP performance and agree on a
new IP for the next year (para 3.21); and
(ii) the procurement procedures and the arrangements for
management, accounting, auditing and reporting (para 3.20 through 3.27);
(c) submit to IDA by June 30, 1989 for comments the draft
manuals on classroom reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance to be
produced under the project, and after taking IDA's comments into account,
distribute the manuals immediately in the two project zones (para 3.3 (f));
(d) create a teacher Training Monitoring Unit within DEE by
December 31, 1988 (para 3.7);



22
(e) submit to IDA for comments by December 31, 1988, the
study on MEN's organization and methods, and begin implementation of agreed-
upon recommendations within six months (para 3.15);
(f)
(i) ensure regular payment of education personnel
salaries in the amount of at least 602 of their nominal 1967 base (para
3.15); and
(ii) prepare a scheme to ensure regular payment of
salaries to civil servants and in particular those of education personnel,
submit such scheme to IDA by November 30, 1989 for comments, and implement
said scheme as agreed with IDA (para 3.15);
(g) maintain at all times during project implementation the
full-time positions of Project Director, Accountant, Project Administrator
and Educator/Education Planner, and keep these positions filled at all times
with personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Association (para 3.16); and
(h) formulate a global human resource development strategy
through the "Cellule de Reflexion sur le Developpement de l'Education",
(paras 3.14 and 3.15);
5.3       A condition of effectiveness would be that the contract for the
Educator should have been signed, and that the Project Administrator should
be in place in DNPE (para 3.16);
5.4       Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(i) for the primary school construction component, a
contract should have been signed between Government and a volunteer
association (para 3.3 (f)); and
(ii) for the Study Fund (Category 7), the Association
should have approved each additional activity proposed by the Borrower (para
3.15).
5.5       Recommendation.  Subject to the conditions set forth in paras. 5.1
to 5.4 above, the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$22.0
million on standard terms.



23
Ann3x 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita                          US$179 (19o7)
Land Area                               1.3 million sq. km.
Population                              5.24 million (mid-1987 estimates)
of which urban                       25Z
rvpu.aton duenslty                      4.0 per km2
Population growth rate                  2.42
Infant mortality rate                   210 per thousand (1987)
Life expectancy at birth
- male                               43 years (1984)
- female                             45 years (1984)
School    Gross     Z in               Pupil/
Enrol-    Enrolment Private      Z     Teacher
ment      Ratio(%)  Schools   Female  Ratio
Primary Ed. (1986/87)       336,000       44.0      2.8      28.5    60.0
General Sec. Ed. (86187)
Public                    38,474
Private                     1,786
Total                     40,260        n.a.     4.4      15.0    37.0
Technical Sec.                 3,097        -        -        25.3    31.0
Voc. Ed. Sec. level              697        -        -         n.a.    A.a.
Teacher Training               1,221        -        -        16.1    21.0
Higher Ed.                     2,124        -        -         9.0     n.a.
Education ES*nditures
Ministry of Education's budget (FY88) as Z of total Government recurrent
budget:
Distribution of budgeted public recurrent expenditures (for salaries) by
level of education (FY88):
%
Primary Education                           48.5
Arabic Education                             4.8
General Secondary Education                 16.2
Technical Secondary Education                1.9
Teacher Training                             4.3
Higher Education                             2.5
Scholarships                                14.6
Central Administration
and other non-specified                   7.2
Total                                      100.0



24
Page 2 of 2Z
KEY PEDAGOGIC PARAMETERS, BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION
Primary           Secondary
1986/87            1985/86
Length of cycle (years)                               6                  7
Number of schools                                 1,650                 61
Number of teachers                                6,203                586
of which about 10% are in Administrative or
other non-teaching position (for primary)
Percentage female teachers (%)                      4.1
Percentage private sector enrolments (%)            2.8                0.5
Pupil/teacher ratio                                60.0               37.5
Number of hours/school week                          30                 24
Number of pupil-years/graduates                    15.9
Percentage of repeaters (%)                        30.0
Percentage of cohort completing cycle (%)          38.6
Source: Ministry of Education and mission estimates.



Ecole cle Sante
(Infirmiers)
le   2e  3e
E.N.T.P.
Ca
Centres                       L
d'apprentissage               Ecole d'Agriculture
imoniteurs       
ETh ~agric.
le   2eL   I  technicier                     R
le  2e                                                                    0
LycOes
%4  0           tIl
_EN Il __T 2d-                    n ' la     2
.:j14 0 3 -*
m m
*0  a rtI
CPI   CP2  CEI   CE2   CMI    CM2   6e         5e    4e    3e           |                                 8 *
,   l l                                              -  ~~~~~ ~~~           ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~Inst.  0 M 
Ecoles  el6ementaires      CPET      Lycees           BEPC                      .     A     t-4
le   2e       Institute rs    8-W
n rtM1
a c
a r,



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINITERE DE L'EDUCArION NATIONALE
I      MINISTR 
Telchnique|
Secr6talre d'Etat
Cabinet
UnlversitU    Ecole       Institut    Institut    Commiss.   a
I du      ncrmale    Nal des      Nal des    Nale tchad
Tchad    sup6rieure  Sc. hum.       Sc. de        pour
leducatlon    I Unesco
DNPE                     Direction
Gindrale
Direction   Direction   Direct. de  Direction    Direct.    Direction    Courtier  Services    Service    Service      Service   Bureau des
de l ensel-  de l'ens.   Ilens. tech  de       de l'Orient des        |e        |raldes        diii       de b     |  de 11    Etudes
seignem.   secondal-  nique et    I'arabe      de la plani atfaires     Central |Cntines    Personnel  Planific:|  alphabt6-  et des
616m.        re       profess.                fication,   admin.                                         4lAment.   tisation    Textes
des ress.   des finan.
humaines   et du
I& ------------    L - ------ - I                                                   -----------e-



27
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 1r
-           REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
This Annex provides the following statistical information on the
development of education in Chad (reliable statistics before 1985 are not
available). More detailed information on primary education can be found in
Annex 2-5:
Part It Enrollments, Teachers, Examination and Scholarships
Table 1:    Enrollment by district and sex
Tab]le 2s    Primary Education - Teachers by qualification.
Table 3:    Secondary School Entrance Examination (1987)
Table 4:    Enrollment Secondary Education
Table 5:    Secondary Education:  Examination Results
Table 6:    Teaching Staff, Secondary Education
table, 7:    Enrollment Vocationa1, post-BEPC
Table 8:    Teacher Training, Enrollment
Table 9:    Higher Education Enrollment
Part II: Educational Finance:
Table 10:  Recurrent budget, MEN, as percentage of recurrent Government
budget
Table 11:   Recurrent budget, by purpose
Table 12:   Recurrent budget, by level
Table 13:  Recurrent budget by level and student (unit cost)
Table 14:   Investment budget, Education



ANN1Y 2-3
28                                 Page 2 of 1.Z
Table l
SCHOOL AGE POPULATION AND RATE OF ENROLLMENT PER PERFECTURE/
EFFECTIFS SCOLAIRES ET TAUX DE SCOLARISATION PAR PREFECTURE
1986-87    SCHOOL ENROLMT.   RATE OF ENROLMT. %FEM.
PREFECTURE          POP  (7-12)   EFF  SCOLAIRES    TAUX DE SCOLARI.
BATHA                   60,505              4,861              8.0      22.8
B.E.T                    15,193             2,542             16.7      23.7
BILTINE                 30,250              4,401             14.5      23.7
CHARI BAG.              118,146            39,440             33.4      36.8
GUERA                   35,516             25,124             70.7      32.6
KANEM                    33,616             4,898             14.6      28.4
LAC                      23,083             2,441             10.6      29.3
LOGONE OCCID.            51,185            35,852             70.0      30.0
LOGONE ORIENT.          52,905             43,414             82.1      26.5
MAYO-KEBBI              119,293            44,510             37.3      30.8
HOYEN CHARI              90,473            64,789             71.6      24.0
OUADDAI                 59,071              7,653             13.0      25.3
SALAMAT                 18,349              6,523             35.5      24.5
TANDJILE                52,043             19,594             37.6      24.0
TOTAL         759.628            306.042            40.3       28.5
Source:  MEN statistics; school enrollments are underestimated by
approximately 102.
Table 2
PRIMURY EDUCATIONIENSEIGNEMENT ELEHENTAIRE
TFCHERS SY QUALIFICATIONIENSEIGNANTS PAR QUALIFICATION
(1987)
Number      Prerentaxe
TeacherstIlstituteurs                                1,206             19.4
Associate Teachers/lastituteurs adjoints              1,280            20.6
Monitors Category I/Moniteurs supirieurs               572              9.2
Monitors Category II/Moniteurs brevetis                 301             4.9
Monitors Category III/Moniteurs titulaires              324             5.2
Untrained, supplementary/Maitres suppleants          2,525             40.7
TOTAL                                              6,203            100.0
(of which 102 are estimated in
administrative position)
Source: Census of Education Personnel, 1987/
Recensement du personnel de l'iducation, 1987.



ANNEX 2-3
29                              Page 3 of 11
TABLE 3
SECONDARY SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAMINATION (1987)1
EXAMEN D'ENTREE A L'ECOLE SECONDAIRE (1987)
PREFECTURE                            CANDIDAT.     ADMISS.           S
CHARI BAG.                                3,525        1,085         30.8
GUERA                                       276          152         55.1
BATHA                                       112           63         56.3
BILTINE                                      78           64         82.1
KANEM                                        97           73         75.3
LAC                                          83           44         53.0
MOYEN CHARI                               3,057        1,090         35.7
QUA4nDAT                                    222          161         72.5
SALAMAT                                      67           48         71.6
MOYO-KEBBI                                4,646        1,339         28.8
LOGONE OCCID.                             2,343          922         39.4
LOGONE ORIENT.                            1,958          720         36.8
TANDJILE                                  1,381          545         39.5
TOTAL                                 17.845       6,306          35.3
Source:  Service des Examens et Concours, MEN.
TABLE 4
SECONDARY EDUCATIONIENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE
ENROLLMENTIEFFECTIPS
1986/87     1985/86       1984/85
GENERAL SEC., PUBLIC                     38,474        n.a.          n.a.
GENERAL SEC., PRIV.                       1,786        n.a.          n.a.
TOTAL GENERAL SEC.                       40,260      41,979          n.a.
SEC. COMM. TECH.                          2,906       2,533         1,896
SEC. IND. TECH.                             191          164          134
TOTAL TECH. SEC.                          3,097       2,697         2,030
TOTAL                                 43.357      44,676          n.a.
Source: MEN



ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 12
30
TABLE 5
SECONDARY EDUCATIONs EXAMINATION RESULTSIENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE:
RESULTATS AUX EXAMENS
BEPC                        BACCALAUR EAT
YEAR/ANNEE       CANDIDAT.  ADMIS.   Z        CANDIDAT.  ADMIS.      Z
1986-87        7,757    3,874   49.9          6,821     879      12.9
1985-86        8,381    4,063   48.5          5,705     573      10.0
1984-85         n.-.      n.a.   n.a.         4,560      737     16.2
BACCALAUREATE RESULTS BY SECTION RESULTATS AU BACCALUREAT PAR SECTION
SECTION            1986-87                1985-86               1984-85
CANDIDAT. ADMIS. %    CANDIDAT. ADMIS. %  CANDIDAT. ADMIS. 2
A.LIT/PHILO.      2,358    372 15.8   2,082    236  11.3   1,768  175  9.9
AB.ECONOM.           15      5 33.3       14      8  57.1       11    7 63.6
C.EXACT SC.         533     66 12.4      485    103  21.2      440   87 19.8
D.NAT.SC          2,468    310 12.6   1,975    131   6.6   1,547  177 11.4
F1.MECHANICS         42      5 11.9       23      8  34.8       22   14 63.6
G1.SECRETAR.        562     53  9.4      410     26   6.3      215   52 24.2
G2.ACCOUNTG.        585     49  8.4      475     43   9.1      343  129 37.6
G3.COHMERCE         258     19  7.4      242     18   7.4      214   96 44.9
TOTAL          6.821    879 12.9   5.706    573  10.0   4.560  737 16.2
Sources  Service des Examens et Concours, MEN.
TABLE 6
TEACHING STAFF, SECONDARY EDUCATION/PROFESSEURS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE
GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION/             TECHNICAL SECONDARY EDUCATION/
ENSEIGNMENT SECONDAIRE GENEA L           ENSEI'NY    SECCRE CM E
1986-87  %                                 1986-87  2
Professeurs Licenies        98  8.4       Professeurs Titulaires
Professeurs de CEG         309 26.7       (DEUG, Licence, BTS, ING.,
Contractuels Bacheliers   568 49.1        CEG, Inst. Bach.)            27  28.4
Professeurs d'EPS           91  7.9       Contractuels Diplomes         12  12.6
Professeurs de dessin       91  7.9       Contractuels Bacheliers      56    59
TOTAL                     11S7  f00       TOTAL                        95  1002
Source: MEN



31
ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 1_
Table 7
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION (POST BEPC)ZENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL (POST BEPC)
Enrollment/Effectifs                   1986187
Agriculture                               07
Livestock/Elevage  a/                     94
Engineering/Ing4nierie                    78
Health/Sante                             438
Total                                    697
a/ Farcha Livestock School data not included, n.a./Les donnees sur l'ecole
d'4levage de Farcha ne sont pas comprisas.
Source: Ministry of National Education/Minist&re de l'Education Nationale
b:2-3.txt (Chadl)



Table e
TEACHER TRAINING/FORMATION DES E4SEIGNANTS
EhFKOIU4ENT/EFFECTIFS
PRIUARY TEACHER TRAINDIN COLLEGES/
ECOLES NOtMALES D'INSTtTUTEURS
1986-87    X F.       198C-88     X F.    1983-84    X F.    1982-83   X F.
N'DJ _na                                 233     21.4           199     16.1        151      6.1        126      4.6
Abech                                    268     18.6           169      7.9         68      5.6         16      6.7
boundo"                                  214     18.2           149      3.8         94      J.6        112      4.6
Sahr                                     167    17.1            136     16.1         69     22.0        168      2.8
Bongor                                   173      3.7           127      7.1         82      1.0         So      0.6
Total                                  126      15.7           779      8.6        424      7.4        416      8.6
SECONDARY TEACHER IRAINING COLLECE/
ECOLE NORMALE SWERIIEURE
1966-87               1986-66               1964-86             1988-64            1962-83
N'D3 _ nn                                201                    264                 196                 192               196
Sourco:  Ministry of National Education.
01'C



33
ANNEX 2-3
Page 7 of 15
"lam  GUCAltZWI    ULmvIT/                                 Table 9
uncnIs 01541T S4RERIE
A. UtiVsIY  OF CAO1/
usmry Du TO"D
160067              16-U                  1664-K              1963-64
PAOLTK/PfORAMM                  mmL./Up.  I F.  o..n.              U P.    o./.  * . /6o.              .  s F.
LAW, IC6MCS A MANAOaSt/
SC. JEiO., SCUl. IT CESTZWN
LW/rlt                                 467      6.2            0                 S.      11.3       201 
gee. a   t         e tln               7        6.8           620    ,.e.        471      0.6       167     f..
Tte"I                                 1i1       6.8          II86                66s    i.          Su8
PACT A AIUD ScMCU/
s1UnmS  ACTS LIT AI'UQJEE
11**,l                                   a tb !L  12.0                                               so .  82    18.  6  e::
'~~~~~~ ~~72                  2.8           01I.                0        .8        78      ..
Tvil                                   LU       8.8           1                  1         .        129
AM   & aIlIlS/
LarmU, LAW,a  -A
mo. L I       .Lt    med              1in      11.$          1no      ..          72    1S.8         87    n.3.
Mod. Laag.jAague  M.d./Arb              a5      7.             U6    a.            8      660               n
Md. Lag./Lo e MO./AngleIs              1U8    17,6            16      ..         112    17.9         6       t.a.
lwaI14148/e. twk.. ag                  236      0.4           10      I..        10       2.8        6       t,
Toml                                   642      9.8           4n                 so       8.7       16
OR" TOTAL                             204        .6          1790    a..        1St       9.0       00      f.*.
Soust Uatwoelty of  adJUlwllt du T*e.
B. NATIONAL SbA. OF ADMIIDUMWA?!~
M"OE NATII AL D'Al0MNIWAW  IT SI
MAO15mATJMl (114AM)
1967-6        1 S0-7        1 1-6              194466              19W-4
gmM./4W.   EWNL./WP.           RM               NOL.F.            EML./EFF.
A       nUATIW A SOC. CAMS/
ASDUSl2MTIOR U TIRAVAIL SOCA.                    47            U
AJICIMY  tSSIueIUM
JAICr  tU 19
Total                                            0S            a                              10.                27.
*  1008-64n 127 g .u1" to r    lot    *oe., 2nd yfor/2? 1l...tS    1 de*A1O        e du print., 0ego0.
10l4- d6 1S oflogutoa  to forSe.  M  op1-, Seolor8tod I p1  r so9r0VI  tarlpo so douziome oolo, progri  lIntenel d'ua on.
Souer; Smm
$"Mt SP
bh".UI (ChWd)



ANtrEX 2-3
Page 8 of 12
Table 10
RECURRENT BUDGET, MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AS PERCENTAGE OF RECURRENT GOVERNMENT BUDGET/
BUDGET DE FONCTIONNEMENT, MEN
EN POURCENTAGE DU BUDGET DE FONCTIONNEMENT DU GOUVERNEMENT
(FCFA 000,000)
1975       1986       1987       1988
Recurrent budget, Ministry of Education/
Budget de fonctionnement, MEN               2,297.2    4,605.7    2,990.9    2,848.0
(including scholarships/bourses incl.)
Bugent bfudgetionnem nt, Gouvernement    19,304.2   35,201.6   25,400.6   25,613.8
Ministry of Education
as percentage of Government                   11.9%      13.1%      11.8%      11.1%
MEN en pourcentage du Gouvernement
Sources:  - Budget ordinaire de rEtat pour 1987, 1988.
- L'enseignement en Republique du Tchad. Elements de diagnostic
et perspectives d'action, MEN, N'Djamena, novembre 1986.
- Statistical Yearbook/Annuaire statistique, Unesco, 1986.
Notes     Up to 1986, salaries were shown at 100% of the official 1977 salarl scale.
In 1987, they are shown only at 60% of the scale.
Jusqu'& 1986, les salaires sont pr6sentes a 100 % du bareme officiel de 1977.
En 1987, ils sont prdsent6s seulement a 60% du bareme.



table 11
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION/MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
RECURRENT BUDGET, BY PURPOSE/
BUDGET DE FONCllONNEMENT, PAR NATURE DE DEPENSES
(1985-1987)
1985                    1986                   1987                 1988
FCFA         %        FCFA         %         FCFA         %        FCFA         %
Salaries and other
personal expenditure/    3,871,230,572   82.7  4,100,680,622   89.0  2,875,214,655   96.1  2,737,702,368   96.1       @
D6penses de personnel
(including scholarships/
bourses incluses)
Materials/                810,050,000   17.3    504,979,000   11.0    115,664,801    3.9    100,350,161    3.9
Mat6riel
Total                   4,681,280,572  100.0  4,605,659,622  100.0  2,990,879,500  100.0   2,848,052,529  100.0
Source:   -  Budget ordinaire de l'Etat pour 1987, 1988.
- L'enseignement en Republique du Tchad. Elements de diagnostic et perspectives d'action, MEN, N'Djamena,
novembre 1986).
Note:    Up to 1986 salaries were shown at 100% of the official salary scale. In 1987 they are shown only at 60% of
the scale./
Jusqu'a 1986 les salaires sont presentes a 100 % du barame officiel. En 1987, ils sont pr6sentes seulement 'a  s
60 % du barOme.



36                                 AtNNEX 2-3
Table 12                         Page 19 of 12
MINISTRY Of EDUCATION/rIN!STERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
RECURRENT BUDGET BY LEVEL/SUDGET DE FONCTIONNENENT. PAR NIVEAU
1987                      1988
'000                     '000           t
Personnel Exo*ngitu__.e_
ODoenses de Personnel
Primary Education/
Enseignement 6l1mentaire        1.656,575.6    57.6    1,327,627.0        48.5
Arabic Education/
Enseisnement de l'arahe           126,501.2      4.4       132,721.2       '.8
Secondary General
Secondaire ghn#ral                366,433.6    12.7        "43,903.3      16.2
Secondary Technical/
Secondaire technique               51,591.6      1.8        53,052.0        1.9
Teacher Training/
Enseignement normal               117,575.8      4.1       116,764.9        4.3
Higher Education/
Enseignement suP6rieur             83,209.7      2.9        67,634.7        2.5
Scholarships/Sourses et
allocations scolaires             320,000.0    11.1        400.000.0       14.6
Central Administration/
Administration centrale            53,327.2      5.3       195,999.3       7.2
Sub-Total/Sous-Total            2,875215.7   100.0    2,737,702.4    100.0
CxPenditures for Matgrio .
OUoenses do matfriels
Administrative/
Administration                     23,498.8    20.3         37,465.2      34.0
Suoplies/Fournitures               61;280.0    53.0         45.000.0      40.8
National Institute for
Social Sciences/INSH                9,910.0      8.6         8,500.0        7.7
National Institute for
Educational Sciences/INSE            20,985    18.1         19,385.0       17.6
Sub-Total/Sous-Total              115,664.8   100.0        110,350.2    100.0
TOTAL                          2,990,879.5               2,848,052.6



37
ANNL'C 2-3
Page 11 of 12
Table 13
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION/MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
RECURRENT BUDGET. BY LEVEL AND STUDENT (UNIT COST)/
BUDGET DE FONCTIONNEMENT, PAR NIVEAU ET PAR ELEVE (COUT UNITAIRE)
As % of GNP
FCFAF               US$            per capital
En % du PNB
per capita
Primary Education/                      2,977              10.8              6.8
Enseignement 4l4mentaire
Secondary General/
Secondaire g4n4ral                      9,100              30.3             16.0
Secondary Technical/                   18,900              63.0             33.3
SecondEire technique
Teacher Training/                     116,100             387.0            204.8
Enseignement normal
Higher Education/                      53,400             178.0             94.2
Enseignement superieur                  3                 1
Source:   Tables 1 and 6/Tableaux 1 et 6.
Note:    For all levels of education, enrolment 1985/86 was used, except for primary
education, 'where estimated 1987/88 enrolment was used/
Pour tous niveaux de renseignement on a utulise les effectifs de l'ann6e 1985/86,
& rexception de rlenseignement el6mentaire ou ron a utilise lrestimation des
effectifs 1987/88.



38
Table 14                                    ANNEX 2-3
-TPage 12 of 12
INVESTMENT HUOCGT. EDUCATION (1937)sUDGET D'INVESTIIEMENT. EDUCAnON (1987)
(PCFA 000)
DlsburseomentsDdb m.ntr
Amount/     Jodr./                                                  Afte
MAnotan         Avant                                      lo7goi 18    Apr,
Montant             nt          t95t9s51987                              199
I. Ainistance to the Faculty of sciences (UNDP)I           6.1             1,9            4,5           iio         4,2 
SoutAln k la Facult4 des Sciences (PNUD)               461.010         31,110         54,50         1,150        44,220
2. Assitance to the iger Teocher
Trainng Schel (UNDP)/                                    603,s00         332,310       162,S90      109,900             -
Apui    crol normal, si pdeuro   (PNUO)
S. School Prntahop (UNDP)/ 4I0,00                                           _           1oo,eo        t20.000      120,000       140I
Imprimoris scolaire (PNUD)                             4040-1000                                   1000         1000          10
4. Aubl t   to Primaro  Schools in Sel (UNICEF)/           228.135         113.950      114,215          -             -
Auto  c  dcola primahs  nne  S01 (UNICtF)
S.Remon   lyc4  Mowydou et B3 or (EDF)/                   $72,750           50,402      322,373          -             -
Rdemtomdngnmt. lycios Mowmdo  et Dongor (FED)
S. Reconstructlon, terch l lyco, N'Dlonena (EDP)/         451,700          119,700      171,000       171,000             -
Rdfection, lycde t.chdqe, N'Djamnena(FED)
7. TdaInin Progmemme (ED?)V                              2,117,240       1,820,970       136,800      136,800        32,670
Ptogmme defortmation            eoED)   mEDF)e'
LPrgamm   o  acionns, e ducatio  s(e ED) "             l,70400          752,400       342,000      342,000       342,000
9. Comnstucin and equipment, CEG Am-Tamen (EDW SF)I-                                      6,n           3$ 
Cntructim et ftdpement, CEGAm-Tlman(FDM                  127,00                -        6,25         63,525
10. AUnsca  teachr traini  (FranceU                      1,259,810         629,8SO       210,000       210,000      210.000
Appul, formation des tnstitutemr (France)
11.Righ4-evel training, law nd eomics(France)t            l,sss,5s          36,6o        uo,0oo        250,000       250,000
Formation cades Jurdidques et dcon. (FanAce)1,660                        5160          2000         2000          2000
12. Atsfat train of se. sco  teache Q(Frnce)/            t,604,35          704,550       300,000       200,000      300,000
Ag  ulormetion dusgrofesseurs (Frnkne)1,0,5
13. uAssnes to lycdIeF4    Ebou (France)/                   657,410         20,450       15O.0J0       150,000       150,000
Appal lye" Fdlx Eboud (France)
14. Asaltnc ENS/NSE-CRFC (Swltzerland)/                   1,030,000         665000        65,000       150.000       150.000
Programme contuctions scolires (Suis)
IS. School constuction programme (Switzerland)/             28507,0                       0,0           0,0 
Programme conructmions scolaire (Suise)                  2t,500           78,500       10o,00o      100,ooo
16. Contuction of INSE ond CFPR (ADB)/                    1.532,407         663,271      434,324       434,712
Contruction do tIINSE et CYPR (BAD)
17. Constructn, teacher training Institutes
(N'Djamena, Abseebd) (ADB)I2,0                                                  -      92,0 
Construction, coles mnorma                               952,000 l82,00e
(WNjmea, AbechQ) (BAD)
11. Third Educaton  oect                                  2,l,0            ,448,20    t,21,70                --
Trotlme prolet Education BIRD)                         2,3,00            ,44         1,210,U3              - 
Total                   -17102,102s                                   8,414,482    8.211,182    2,588,88?1   I,288,vs          140.



39
ANNEX 2-4
.713 14. 1988
*            *~~ ~~ ~ I   :G    Ms             the FIRCII: :0 DTRStLUA   2PIA"PtM                           . IA SiFLIR           :BM"         .SCNU-1sCm                 i
:083: 9MP. sCADIA  mU3CEN  GEPiTO31. 01113 :ALLLOCAUO 0: T:tSAT1    :3ILL. :SCHOOL    1STUDONEIS! IUCA22OU  :P311A1*T  ;10aIIIOLL.  !STUD9NTS :USOLL.:
aT1AR::1ILL8.:(U8$)  :03901T5 TO :GOYEml  P91PMV    :1       MICR   (I)   i RATIO  :C103        Ptr      :AS P3303KITSIOORMOAAtA1*1          sPIS      :3*110
:(1979):(1979) : DCTO u1011 U   g3OuaLU3s          (I)       (1916)   (1)   a (2)    :13*IU3A   =P/Ca91Th:    (2)               (1)    :13*A331     (35
(1)  (2)  : ~~~~3  :  (4)  :    (3)       : ~~~(6)   a(7)  a (6)    a  (9)            (LO)   :      1)     : (12)  a (t 3)  a(14)
111HI cuimiau    1..6   880           9.38         14.6        -     -    - -             103'     t00         21        -             99          73        I)3      20.90
CANA"              6      2t3.1   960       7*78        16.3'       30?3.'  3'          gb     16        10o         21        19.9'?       100          9as       to      22.60'
G391'AN1 9.1.      19    61.2  12.200       4.6          9.9'       -    -    --    ,,6         a9'      100m        -         --           100'         94'       --       12.10'
UIIIIIL*J10        79    14.0  10.400       1.9          3.1        20   33   23      9967      96       95         18        13.3          99          82        13       12.40
:39 ZgLI           so      3:2b  6.oo16    3.3'         13.4        37   31   23&      'b      100       too         24        11t,6        100          82        LS      25.800"
39308              19      8.3  12,250      9.0         10.2        31   10   10       ,,6      99'      100         j38       19.9         100          79'       10'?    3b.Su'?
SOT136*J*          23      1.0b    920b    6.0          22.0        41   34   22       40      100        77         32        10.0          40          20        21        1.900
UituMO!            91      4.2      233     2.b         19.0        43   28   ii       as       29'       33         37        20.2          12           32       21        1.00
0001000            84      0.46    345      Law9        28.0        49  29  22         49        76       40         39        -             43          36        28       0.60
wIIoUI             84      0.4     460      3.0         11L.9       73   26   ...    10         42        66         40        61.0          40          10        19       (2.60
3114O09A           a3    43.0       110     3.69         9.3        33   28   17       3#       31        30'        63        19.3          93'         14        44       0.30
3339*              62    17.46    4206    3366          20.16       63   16   It       496     11         38         36        16.4          33          L8        26        -
1.39O111           82      1.46    4336    35.3         16.9        38   32   26       336     116K       41         48         9.6          44          21        21        1.30
II*OGAO&C*         17      8.       330     4.0'        24.0        33   2.8  19       30       9462      33         53         0.0          38          14        23        3.100?
942A83             81      6.51b    2306    3.3         11.4        381&4  2           236      62        23         as         3.8          12           4        21       0.40
IWJIIIIUS          93      La6  1.170b    4.3           14.0        46   36    7       80b      93        12         23        13.0         100          s0        22        1.00
INAM         ~83      5,9b    2106    3.6          21.4        11   16   13       376      63        30         40        16.0           9           3        16        0.40
391cMzU.3S          79     0.6   1,170      3.:9        22.4'       34  33  10'    -                                  3                                             
SOMALIA*           at      4.3      n 280t1.            10.         S0b  446   46       06        6       gb         296        9.06         gob         126       22        1.013
SUDAN0             s0    19.26    3806    3.0           -           66  39  ...    32           51x       68         34         1.4          44          16        16      ..
SWAZtIJIID         83      0:7b    940b    3.69b        20.4        31   34   LS       636      93        s0         33        11.0          98          29        l8       3.00
TANZANIA           so    18l        26e.                11.7        41   10   16       196       86       III        43        11.0          196          3        Z0E      0.30
U30A15             60    12.66b  230b    5--            16.1w       236 31620b    49            34'       61         34       -              11           3        23       0.60
11183              81    29.66    2106    7.1           26.4        -    -    10       346       16       23         30        21.0          40          to        28       2.00
ZAMIAgo               3 7b    3686    4.39         11.1        48  2322           446       93       go         48        12.9          19          16        22        1.30
3115859            6I      ?:lb    7006    S .1         19.3        62   32    6       446      90        33         39        20.0          as          13        23       0.30
S39IN              79      3.4b    320b    6.3w         33.0        43   21    3    jib         42        30         46        14.0          30          It        43        1.00?
BURKINA1           93      6.3      2106    2.1'        21.7        43   29   28                 16       23         31        24.3          16           3        24        0.03
CA23300            64    10.0       8106    3.19V       -           33  38  28        20         89       436        so        -             -           23        28        2.10
C.4.1.             66      2.66    2606      May~    24.7?&         49   16   24    -            79       43         63'?      to            -           18        67        1.40'?
016                3?      3.2      179     2.6          6.9        538?14?   3? -              44        39         60         3.3          33           7'       37        0.60'a
CONGO              78      1.3      670     9.0"?       21.1'?       --- -           -                    --         366?      -             30          -         436?      4.00'?
iqus. 013133       83      0*.3     270b    2.6          3.8        41   24   ...   206          13       10         so         3.2          40          23        17'?Y
CAM           77      0.6   3,420       3.16?       6.4                                              -            - -. 46? --                                  96        .6'
081I511            11      0.6      210     3.3"         6.36       46   23'  6'   j06           406?     90'        216?      44.7w         40          1262?    11         -
GOA"1              76    11.3      400      4.0?        t3.36                -                   711 -               216ba  -?b  -           -           3661?    21         -
(ADM83              19     3.3      2909    4.6'9       -           25a  led28'   20             34       36         38        20.0'?        83          16        29        7.00'
Gulf" 8188W        86      0.96    1106    -             9.6        44 12  -          15(t)      s8       t0         26         '.0          -           -         16i       -
19011I COAST       83      9,36    720      7.3         42.8        31   40    9    33'?        72        19         31        29.0          49         122"       30        1.88
1t133311           so      1.9      320     4.6         19.6        43  23  24        30         32       32         33        20.0          16          22        20        2.90
11AL.              81      1.06    190      4.2'        21.1'       38  211           10 t       20       60         44        1.1           6I                    It        0.90'?
NMUAIIIAII         66      .1.7     4106    3.0         22.4        32   40   23    Il           33       33         so        10.0          84          16        23        4.60
32033              84      3.2      so0     2.6         21.0        40  23230    14             23        20         36        41.0          37           6        28       0.30
610332A            63    93.66    1406    7.6?          16.0        -    -    13    36          9         70         36        19.3          41          23        30        2.00
835R=.            64      6.4      300     3.06        24.0        446  336  L,6   28           32       39         46        26.0          19'         16'       24        2.20'
313881 13083       77      3.4      230     4.06        16.0b       -     -     -     j56        37x      -          33        23.06         84          13'       22       0.60b?
T000                18     2.4      400     6.34'       26.34        3o' 26' 21'  1s             14       40         346?      38.0          S2          3261?    446b       1.606?
LAtINl CRSICA, AND TUB ftRWLAM*
Of0118              1     27.    2.210      2.1          10.9       43' 31'  18'   936           89        U         11        -             87          31         6      23.00
BANANAS5           19      0.2   2.170      3.7         19.1        36  3611t    936             99       97         24        -             97          13        19      --
BARBAD0S           18      0.2   2.680      8.3"?y      22.1'       43' 31'  16'  '96           100?      99         217       19.9'         99'         7e?       20?     -
goLIVIA            so      5.4      330     4.1'?        30.3'      -     -     -     63         14?      -          j0y       --            -           13?       -        12.601
538.11             79   116. 5 1,770        3.8          6.2        31I        14    16          13'?     -          234?       4.Sb         61'         13'y      14'?    12.626
0311.              16    10.9   1,890       3.26?       13.06          -       -      -         11961?    -          346?             -                   3362?    206?    11.Vj6?
COLOIIA             0    36.6   1.1I606o   3.3          23.0        33   20   20    SIb          T8       36         32         6.6           -47                  20       10.02'?
0001  8101         go      2.26  1.8106    8.4           31.1       40   21   33    so           93       11         33         3.3          11          40        27       14.00
cum*               78      9.8      -       8.0         11.0         --         9tiaba?    96                        186?      -             98           162      Is       19.026?
00U131C83  W3.    so0     3.3 1,030         2.9          13.0       39   21L  22   4'6           go       31         39         3.2          9430                  33       16.00
3008001            80      8.46  1.110      6.09        36.7        63   31   16    61          103       -          36        12.6          66          47        16       29.00
31.882.9200        77      4.4      640     3.46?       23.16?      64    a   27    62           8266?    31         39        -             41          2666?    276?       7.9061
0(UA13161A          18     6.6     ,1 1.       1'?       12.66b                -                 6962?    -          336?      -             69          13"?    18b?        3.3so
001491              76     0.       630     8.6          13.86?            -           -         962                 326?      -             -           3962y3     -        3.00b?
6*11               a0      5:Qb    23       3.4'         7.9O?      63    9    6    236          s0       20         41        19.0          628k         4        27       0.60
1050038             18     3.6      320     3.36?        14.36?     62'  13' 19'  60            SO62      30'        416?      12.8'         68'         21'y      19       8.00?
JANAICA             80     2.1   1.110      6.3          13.7        37  432W         go         98       go         40         2.3          9s          $1        22       8.00
Nato               so    63.       ,0       4.7          17.0'      4639  13          92         96        3         44         9.3          86          36        17       10.30
WICARAi&            78     2.6      6106    3.06O        1.0        -     -     -     go9        86       24         V6         --26                               306     -
9*1*19             78      1.86  1.330b    3,3637       21.86?      428  13' 13    826           93by     -          236?      11.6          63'         306?      2761    20.406?
9A3A1M             79      3.0   1.140       1.4'        14.2       42   17   2D084              53       32         28         3.1          76          22        L2       0.70
FM                 to 60  16.6    ,000      3.6         14.3        331319t    80                83       36         39         9.6          so          39        22      14.60?
131310*  8 103.   77       11.1  3,910      4.66?         a.6        48   32   20    93          98       91         30        L0.3?         49          62        24      -
131000*!      ~~78    2.92.0  2.3                    94              -      84             132        -         246       -             -      ~     62       -        M7.0'
WINMEA        78    14.4   3.44.0       3.1?y       18.96       -        -     -8          10662     -          2n        -             -           Sobs      t7      21.107



40                                                                         ANNEX. 2-4
Pa-ge 2 of 2
a          ss  ff.   Ihtu        O a        WA     an"uac            va MUa                                                a: a%.500118tP                             aL
a      a    a       S       S             a3'           a              a-W-C  :   MC      "          aA  aM      I/AP           a3   as  aTc 
til  '     497    atom                 al02OI         a                              ?"UNU aN                          a          a 
a0"l a1819.3118.(013  ait 7.7    aGOWIUf                          afl   8   92 a1 (so          SS1    a  SOa   ai        a   LK8N?a84*8    aAis    lit                 ala
a         a    a(~~~197)m11, 9  a Sol,  ZI7   a8in1         a9   (33       a  1b79  a (1          1      ahA   aC1t.4a             (3)    a   (0    a1n          a (
a                a1a  a.a.a                                       a              aI        a   s         Is,       3   a     a5.           is          lita
a                aL at13a(3)go              03            (93           ()6         (9)      A()       (8)         St9   aSs) a            I) a    1)             133a(1
SLICAPM    o     2 4 4.300         347         6.1        33 409 1l          79       SI        a         33         S.0          97          39         9 
1440991            91   I0.3b       20      2.10        19.31      70 1 3A           IS~       10       41         37        101.          19          27        to       3.70
rA1418D            44  9.0b   W.O'    3.4               19.3       38S    10 3        739     lot        10        i1         9.0          9           73        t2        4.00
9410U  9.6         93      3.0b6   930       3.         13.0       9t 2        4      1 0 I) 2    0      7      4       316  1.0           33          IJD       37       1.00
7811.1019.8   79    981.3     ILO9    2.9'         19.0         -   39   -       731      ?4        93         1         ,1           9           3         39       1.00
810091049  10  2.9   9.930    1.7          9.7        390-              to       93        93        31         i.t93                              as       8.100
1A.u              9      ,O.ibb   -        .          3.          9127        9     13       s1o       9          30        31.0          23         30        L$        3.00
79    93.3k   010       1.11        10.147      31   17   it      23        937b      -         33         3.9          -           19e       ik 33    1.93l
--      9      16.3      0      3.9         1.1.010                                 1 -   -      - S  &K3-- 04                                        -4      -.
is47799.    21.10               43.94~ 7 6 I"                             3         7006                SS9                     --          38        -        9.3047
I               I 9  1 b0   13406    1.W    o. 9 -       - -              19       70        US         38                      -          3         3)        3.708
'50     92    97.l       - 30   2.0            47.0     38 02             32        3        91         I0         3.t                     31        13        3.0
Al- IS   9 .S12  AIgb 6ICI9                       3      3    t     J           s        9        Lt        19110                               3          1"
asa   3      33 b      WS       .7   3.2     270       97191  -           3   3    1o        99?37               -            93o         It        Lee7    ...7
yr        93    93.3':2    9glo'    9.9 A        .        31'5 336  39       o9       736       .0         16        9Is9~                     3        17      17.00
J9i   39.9    ,0               3.747       19.17       -     -     -     9 30     10i'33 -                                     -           464      39b       0.600*
79    13.9   4.710      93 87        9.4          "-by-107                            - -                 -             -          907b      39       94.30b7
TUNISIA       I       3.94. 9810       7.347       19.0'       -2 n       s       1  10   9         99         39       1240                      81        19       11.0
91     ky.   1.930k       .9        10.2        19   9      B4    10b      Ito       93         33        03.V          -5         96        It        8.00
79            33       -                   18.67      SD   20-I          it       99    6              St1       -.            -o         99        -0      3.90*
VOLVO$M.S.    9S      i.a9    .79b    9.06         22.9       638  93e  19       33       S7S        9         i1       12.01          -          1'        so       9.500
81  tO   9,990    31.2        13.76    (2-   (-   5-    3061          712      936-       (ti-      -14          (to          1-       (1-9     00
0!  99    &o.0  1.9199    91.9)        11.3)304   3) 13)   10                 12)        70)        19)    19.9)           990         3)        1        29.00
IA             79    3.1   3.10          3.99          1.37      S - -            10       103  2 Is             3~  -            0                 9947     329      10.409
79    3.0   .93            3.       .17  1.9        --         Lt     -3      99         -1        29        -3            -5         979                3.107
Lent      8.                3 .09       &10.       39   it   SS    23         979       10         33        -            98          .i9        It~      3.10
109104            7       9.    1.130 7l .07           09.0       925  395  .18      9       1.00       105        399      S.    13.853               33       30       9.00
Hem1              4)9.1.3                    .4        19.0         4 3 023    Is    59      11         7          31        9.0           a          36        IS       9.00
OUmA.t.           89      93      s         .9         17.7       003011             314      33        29         1        27.           00           93       0        1.00
iinp..t.          93      io      90        .0          96.7       93'  a9   to       3       91        39          is      13.0          99          11        0        3.30
8~~.40Cosau1aa                      99Q             93       709997               MMMII=RW              M    MASS  98  91  93         mm        91        89im     O 6
Lasg.a          (D1.9nnmu                          a37     (3    9    3        9      (12-   (S             (V7 (1.9-              (10         (1-IV     (9-     (003
10.03               39.3) 9I) 11)  33          09)     1093m     "n)         77)       97.03        100         89)Ac    993       9.0
q.sntO..aO9p?a        3.9           31.1      313933 ~~~ 91               99       00UM       93       30            97          97        39So11.0
06OSOAda8  deve1lops"                       1.9ovaLweo rw    8.74  121 7a a           29 Sw 7e           39         11        3            27                    7        7.
SUSUerua          frt;th                  n"t6"NmW4" tOsDUM. a tmhwb                                       a     o   edr"
dOlOtt~    d.  241,14 U 11tg d913.    do aOItIlAW    8gd     M                   *mwb""   5311 dug anS   319 3"ge   La8        2*389  8*810U
de 1in" Level1. I3'Is"Go828 (*s61.a. van"e.14804..u. 04s0n"I. SOWOW
.8.4) ...1  d w p14 e49t9OW to Ii ed U Sm CLO.  ESUW  g. 46149 to0 4L0 au49u  Mt4   dar~n.f moN..-t1*1 0ns14to
.9.4  4  69SPZ*49d with  pm   mba.  94ad   pmsina  to8*  .949. 49 49.af   494 Percentag   9.sI  9rfbA  d.  4444
0146999.003    46U0461 849    Shed4  61494g01 46914.8.  0?li  MA6 014.a  by.m  low" r.  96y af  *ft     93.     4o A81I1&
4.6 40 *846 p4p89. 28.         Om1Ma1g 9.83019611 ..      49 4997 0. 406e9     I L   nKu i             swn 
(1) 8d4114   aso"   n19 0s6 *   8.l .    lacl-sed ues all      i adoaloped is16q  4989 t.i46 ad as nla46t461t.       "



41
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECTIONS: ENROLLMENTS. TEACHERS AND COSTS
1.        Examination of the statistical base for projections reveals that
the latest estimates for pupils and for teachers are not from the same
population of schools.
(a) The most recently available information on the number of
teachers is based on a census of teachers done in early 1987
which indicates that there are 6,203 primary school teachers, of
whom an estimated 102 do not teach because they occupy
administrative positions. These statistical data are drawn from
a population of 1,650 schools, representing an estimated 90X of
the total number of schools in the country.
(b) The most recently available information on the number of pupils
comes from a Ministry of Education survey done in 1986187 which
covered about 90? of the primary schools. Adjusted for error, it
is estimated that there are about 336,000 pupils. This yields a
pupil/teacher ratio of 60:1.
2.        The reliability of the available statistics is approximate. The
baseline data used in the projection model are based on mission estimates
(in consultation with the resident statistician in MEN) derived from the
latest data available, corrected to take into account probable shortfalls
in the counting. The mission estimates suggest that the gross enrollment
rate is around 452 in 1986/87, whereas other estimates place it at around
302. The reason for this is that the primary school age range used in the
calculations in Government documents is 7-14 for the six year primary
school cycle, whereas the mission's calculations use a range of 7-12.
3.        The model used is an enrollment driven model based on the number
of new entrants into the system and the rates of internal efficiency
(repetition and drop-outs). Teacher needs are based on the present two-
tiered systems civil service teachers, employed by the Government; and,
supplementary teachers, employed by the local communities. Growth in the
number of civil service teachers is determined solely by the programmed
output of the ENIs. This is independent of enrollment growth. The increase
in the numbers of the supplementary teachers is determined by enrollment
generated teacher needs minus the stock of civil service teachers. Two
projection scenarios were developed: Ci) one which projects the present
trends, i.e. which implies that primary education will grow as a result of
continuous demand, thereby increasing the gross enrollment rate; and, (ii)
another projection scenario that assumes zero-growth enrollment rate.
4.        Costs for both scenarios are limited to the teacher salary bill
for primary school teachers. The following assumptions hold for



42
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 7
calculating the numbers of civil service teacherss
(a) Recruitment into the ranks of official government paid teachers
is limited to the present output capacity of the Teacher
Training Colleges (ENI), which is based on numbers agreed upon
with the Ministries of Finance and Civil Service. Teacher needs
exceeding these numbers will be satisfied by comunity employed
supplementary" teachers.
(b) Teacher salaries will remain at the current rate, which is 602
of their nominal salaries of 1977. Salary projections are in
constant 1988 prices.
(c) Attrition rates (due to retirement, death or disability) for
teachers are as follows:
-instituteurs                  42
-instituteurs adjoints         32
-moniteurs sup4rieurs          2Z
-moniteurs brevetes            32
-moniteurs                     10o
(d) Promotion of teachers from one category to another is as
follows:
-instituteur adjoint to instituteur            102 per year
-moniteur superieur to the ENI                 150 per year until
1989/90 and 20 per
year thereafter*
-moniteur brevete to moniteur sup6rieur        10? per year
-moniteur sup6rieur to moniteur brevetf        10? per year
(e) Only teaching teachers are included in the calculations,
excluding the about 620 teachers who are assigned to
administrative tasks.
Given that growth in the supply of new teachers is limited to the output
of the ENIs, which itself is determined by their capacity and Government's
capacity to pay their salaries,1 the costs associated with each scenario
are the same. They are as follows:
1A FED financed project is training 750 winstituteurs-bacheliers
over the period 1987-90, in one year courses. This is in addition to the
regular cohort of trainees.



43
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 7
salary bill
Year            (000 FCFA)           growth rate
1987/88        1,047,399             13.962
1988/89        1,162,572             10.58
1989/90        1,271,650             8.991
1990/91        1,350,271             5,972
1991/92        1,426,155             5.442
1992/93        1,499,328             4.972
1993/94        1,569,828             4.571
1994/95        1,637.703             4.212
1995/96        1,703,009             3.892
5.        Present trends scenario. The following assumptiont are made:
(a) The rate of growth of new entrants into grade one (CP1) for
1987/88 and 1988/89 is the current rate, estimated at 41; for
subsequent years the rates are 32 for 1989/90 and 1990/91 and 2Z
thereafter. This is derived from (i) the demographic growth data
(2.5U) and, (ii) the current strong demand for primary schooling
resulting from the period of disorganization and lack of
educational services. It is assumed that this will diminish;
(b)  The rates of internal efficiency are the current ones until (and
including) 1989190. They improve as of 1990/91 and by 1992/93
are half of the current levels. These improvements are assumed
to be the result of investments in sector rehabilitation;
(c) The rate of growth of the school age population (7-12 years) is
the current demographic growth rate, estimated at 2.52;
6.        Results are summarized below and in Figures 1 and 2;
(a) The rate of growth of new entrants into primary schools exceeds
the rate of growth of the school age population by only 1.5-
0.51 between 1987/88 and 1990/91; afterwards it is 0.52 lower.
However, the gross enrollment rate for the entire six-year
primary cycle increases from 492 in 1987/88, to 612 in 1990/91
and 702 in 1995/96. The discrepancy between the modest rate of
growth of new entrants and the extraordinary growth in the
enrollment rate can be attributed to the low internal efficiency
of the system. (The retention effect of low promotion rates far
outweighs the effect of high drop-out rates.) After the
improvements in internal efficiency rates in 1990/91, gross
enrollments rates continue to rise for another three years. As
of 1993/94. the rate of increase tends to flatten-out;
(b) In order to support the increased number of pupils at the
current pupil/teacher ratio of 60:1, an increasing number of
non-government supplementary teachers will be required. Their



44
ANNMX 2-5
Page 4 of 7
share of the total number of teachers will increaso from
currontly about 45Z to about 461 in 1989/90, 501 in 1991/92 and
521 in 1993/94;
(c)  The total primary school teacher salary billl corresponding to
the increasing numbors of government teachers (including 420
supplementary teachers receiving 81,000 ?CFA per year from the
Government), will increase by an average of 9.01 per year over
the next five years, whereas Government paid teacher salaries
per pupil will decline by a yearly average of 1.6J,
(d) It takes almost 16 pupil-years to produce one graduate, and that
only 386 pupils of an entering cohort of 1,000 ever receive the
primary school certificate (580 reach CK2). At the 1987 cost of
2,977 FCFA per pupil-year, the Governmnt will have spent about
47,283 FCFA for etch primary school certificate holder.
Figre 1.. Total bmrolUmts and Mew ttrauts
EFFECTIF TOTAL & NOUVEAUX ENTRANTS (NE)
SCENARIO: lENOANCE ACTI.ELE
700.000
600,000-_
500.=00-0
U'       ~~400.0007
300,000
200,000
86/7  87/8  88/9  89/0  90/1  91/2  92/3  93/4  94/5  95/6
ANNEES
a  NE en CPI                                Eff*Cdf total



45
ANNEX 2-5
Page 5 of 7
Figure 2. Number of Teachers by Category
ENSEIGNANTS PAR CATEGORIES
SCENARIO TENOANCE ACTLEU.E
12,000 -
I~~~ INSlilUT J
11 .000
90.000
9.000
7.000
In
7,000
En       51~6000
5,000
3.000
2,000
1,000
86/7  87/8  88/9  M/0  90/1  91/2  92/3  9,3/4  94/5  95/6
ANNEES
MAMRES BENEVOLS                       MONrTEuRs
7.        Modified scenarios gross enrollment rate stabilized at current
levl. The assumptions used are the followings
(a)  The gross enrollment rate is stabilized at 50S as of 1988189 and
demographic growth is the sam as indicated in para 4(a),
(b)  The rates of internal efficiency are the same as indicated in
para 4(b);
(c)  Teacher informtion is the sano as for the above scenario.
8.        Results for this scenario are summarized below and illustrated
in Figures 3 and 4.
(a) By maintaining the gross enrollment rate at its current level of
about 50S (which mans that growth in total enrollment is
limited to the growth in the school aSg population), the number
of places for new entrants into the school system will decrease
by 302 in 19881/9 and another 92 the following year. Increases
will occur in the subsequent years, but not enough to reach the



46
AM=C 2. 3
Pae 6 of 7
1987/88 lovel of now entrants;
(b)  The number of Government teachers is not changed compared to the
previous scenario. However, the neods for non-Government
teachers diminish by a total of 441 from 1988/89 to 1992193;
(c)  It would take an average of about 9 pupil-years to produce one
graduate, with 68.5Z of the cohort receiving the primary school
cortificate. At the 1987 cost of 2,977 FCIA per pupil-year,
Government's cost for each primary school graduate would be
about 26,560 FCA.
Fiugz S. Total Inrollosets and New Entrants
EFFECTIF TOTAL & NOUVEAUX ENTRANTS (NE)
SCNAR10 TAUX OE SCOLARISA11ON 50%
700000 
600.000 -
600.000 
400,000 
2*1300.000
a00,000
86/7  a7/a  8e/9  89/0  90/1  91/2  92/3  93/4  94/5  96/6'
ANNEES
a  NEon CPI                              0  EffucUf tata



47
page 7 Cz 
Figure 2. Number of TeSwbers by Categi.ry
ENSEIGNANTS !AR CATEQG.RIEFS
SCENARIO TAUX 0. SCOLARISATION A 5O0
12000
9 .000 -!
8 .0oo -
.000 -
8.000
z        5.~~000
6,000
2,000
; ~  ~     ~     ~~~~                                                         f                    
86/7  87/8  86/9  89/o  90/1  91/2  92/3  93/4  94/5  96/6
ANNEES
MAMTS Se VTLES            EVOWS MONfEURS
ON INSTMJTJRS
Conclusions
9g        The low leels of internal efficiency in the system  represent a
major impedimet to the efficient use of available resources, which will
have a negative effect qn access to the system. As long as these rates
remain high the cost of producing a graduate will be high and the system
will have increasing needs for Osuppl6ant toachers. Improving internal
efficiency implies improveseant in the quality of the educational process,
mainly the availability of textbooks and qualified teachers.
10.       Continuation of current trends. with respect to internal
efficiency and the growth in new entrants, will lead to a situation of
increasing dependency on the untrained  suppl4ant  teachers acco  anied by
a decline in the unit costs per pupil. The increase in the gross
enrollment rate would be illusory because the increase In enrollaents
would etsentially be due to repeaters, rather than a higher eurollusut
rate for the age group of the new entrants into first grade (Cl). This
situation would catribute to a costlier system in torms of its capacity
to produce certified graduates without increasing access to CPl.
11.       However, maintaining the current gross  nrollieit rate at
current levels, without improving internal *fficiency would have the
effect of reducing the number of places available for now entrants into
CP1. Since there would be little growth in overall enrollment, the needs
for supplemntary teachers would be reduced. meaning that a greater
proportion of qualified teachers would be available for the pupils in the
ystesm.



48
ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 2
REPJBLIQUE DU TCHAD
PROJET DE RE)UWILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
EXAMEN DU BUDGET DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE POUR LES ANNEES
1986-1987-1988
1.        Le tableau ci-dessous prAsente l'volution du budget du MEN et
sa part relative dans le budget de 1'Etat pour les annees 1986, 1987 et
1988.
EXAMEN DU BUDGET DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION FATICNALE (MEN)1
(en millions de FCFA)
1986           1987                        1988
Z Evolution                2 Evolution
Cr#dits de         4 210     2 567*       -39,02       2 338         -8,9S
Personnel
Cr6dit de          609       116          -81,02       110           -5,12
mat6riel
Total Cr8dits      4 819     2 683        -44,32       2 448         -8,72
du MEN
Part du budget    18,82      17,0S        -1,82        14,72         -2,3Z
du MEN dans le
budget civil de
l'Etat
Part du budget    11,3Z      11,22        -0,12        9,62          -1,62
du MEN dans le
budget total de
l'Etat (y
compris la
Defense
Nationale)
1 Bourses et allocations scolaires non comprises.
* Dont 2 022 millicas de FCFA pour la paie des enseignants du
primaire et du secondaire.



49
ANMEX 2-6
Page 2 Of 2
2.        Ce tableau appelle les commentaires suivants:
(a) des variations aussi importantes d'une annee sur l'autre
(-49,2?) du budget d'un ministere tel que l'ducation
nationale ne peuvent Otre justifi&es par des mesures struc-
turelles (les salaires sont restes les mhmes sur la
periode, les effectifs enseignants rfmun6erfs par 1'Etat
n'ont pas varie dans des proportions importantes). Il ast
donc clair quo c'est la qualite de la prevision budgetaire
qui doit Otre mise en cause. Ce sentiment est corrobor6 par
les observations qui ont pu Otre faites sur le terrain a
l'occasion d'une mission effectues en fAvrier 1988;
(b) les depenses de r6munbratiot sont mandatees sans engagement
prAalable ce qui conduit a ne pas effectuer de rapproche-
ment en cours d'annees entre les depenses effectives
(cr6dits mandates) et les depenses prevues au budget;
(c) il y a un *cart important en fin d'anneo 1987 entre les
depenses prevues au budget pour La pale des enseignants du
primaire et secondaire, et la depense executee (1 131
mi$lions de FCFA soit 562 du montant-prevu au budget);
(d) les credits de materiel ont ete divises par 5,5 entre 1986
et 1988 passant de 609 millions de FCFA a 110 millions de
FCFA sans que lee moyens materiels dont disposent lea
ecoles aient sensiblement evolues.
Une grande imprecision semble, donc, carateriser la preparation
budgCtaire. C'est ainsi que les credits necessaires a l'impression des
diplOmes et a l'organisation des examens ont etC divisas par 10 entre 1986
et 1988, alors mOme que le nombre de candidats ne cesse d'augmenter.
3.        En conclusion, il convient d'*tre extrdmement prudent sur toute
analyse susceptible d'@tre effectuCe A partir des informations contenues
dans le budget de l'Etat. Une amelioration de la situation ne pourrait
Otre obtenue que si le Ministere de l'Education Nationale 6tait pleinement
associe a l'elaboration du budget, ce qui suppose que celui-ci dispose au
prealable d'informations fiables sur la situation locale.



REpUeOIUE OF OCD
EDUCATION REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Suary of Project Objectives and Review Criteria
Msauree Agred Upon                                                          Review Criteria
A. MEASURES TO INCREASE FINANCING OF EDUCATION
1. Graduslly Increasing the share of education in the total            Reviw draft budget low (June each year). Verify during Annual
recurrent budget (preeuntly 11.13).                                    Revie  (November). For PY1, MEN's budget to grow at least at
the  _  rate as the Covrnment's budget. Should the letter
decline, the amount of MEN's budget should be maintained at its
1988 level (about CFAF 2,860 million).
2. Leverage the inveetment of the CI/APE and Increase their            Verify during monitoring and the Annual Reviews the number of
productivity.                                                          CZ/APE contrects signed and the implementation rate of c*nstruction,
book, training and other support provided under the projct.
S.  MEASURES TO PROMOTE A COST EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURC
3.  Protect the share of primary education In MENho budget             Verify budget proposals In budget law and during Annual Reviws.
(presently S13).
4.  Gradually Increase the share of non-salary expenditureo            Verify during Annual Reviews actual non-salary expenditures.
in MEN's budget (presently 43).                                        For PYI, lsplement the public sector financing pin, which
proposes to raise thes expenditures from 110 CFAF to 8S0 CFAF.
S. Explore ways to reduce the share of scholarships In MEN's           Dlscuse  during Annual Roviews.
budget (14.61).
6. Contain the growth of salary expenditures.                          Monitor teacher recruitment and promotion during Annual Reviws.
7. Ensure regular salary paymsnt& to teachere.                         Prepre a scheme, to ensure regular payment of ealaris
to education personnel In the amount of at louet IOU of their
nominal 1967 base, submit such scheme to IDA by Novoeber a0,
1989 for coements, and implement said scheme as agreed with IDA.             p 
0 t0
6. Provide lncentives to supplementry BEPC teachers.                   Verity durlng monitoring annual reviews the a*dission of 20O
supplementry BEPC teachers into existing slote In the ENIs:  1U               
in 1998 and 100 In 1991.
9. Test and introduce double shift and multigrade.                     Prepre a full plan for the 1989 Annual Review.



Measures Agroed Upon                                                         Review Criteria
C. MEASURES TO AVOID STRUCTURAL DISTORTIONS
10.  Monitor number of now entrants in sceondary and higher             Monitor at Annual Reviews. Maintain 1980 number of now entrants
education.                                                              into secondary general education (about 2066) and into
law/economics and managsmont (about 126) and arts and humanities
(70). Encourage students to go into appropriately designed
technical and vocational programs (involving employers) and into
scientific/technical higher education. Control further growth
of higher education at the current number of students (2108 students
in Chad, 186 abroad) with internal shifting i; favor of the fields
of study more in demand in the labor market (scientific and technical
f ields) .
11.  Agree on a throe year rolling Investment program.                  Discuss at Annual Reviews.
reflecting agreed upon priorities.
0. RENABIL.ITATION OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
12. Construction/renovation/repair 1666 claserooms In PYs 2-a           Annual monitoring of actual number of constructions completed
and in PYs 4-6.                                                         and/or underway.
13.  Distribution of one set of textbooks for thre  pupils.             (a) Study on textbook distribution completed by October 1, 1988;
(b) Books and storage trunks ordered by February 1969, delivered
by May 1989 and distributed by October 1989;
(c) Results of regular monitoring of  effective distribution                Ln
and use to be presented to Annual Reviews .
14.  In-sorvice training for about 1769 supplemntary teachers.          (a) Course curriculum  and training of 96 trainers completed
by October 1988;
(b) Training for 35W trainers during PY1;
(c) Evaluation of PY training course to be presented at
first Annual Review along with targets for PY2.
16. Training for about Of Inspectors and CRFC directors.                (a) One ten-day seminars In PY1;
(b) Sm as (c) above.
1C.  Training for about Me  primary school directors.                   (a) Coure curriculum completed by October 19M;
(b) Training for 866 during P1;
(M) Saum as (c) above.
17. Estabilahmnt of the training evaluation/monitorlng unit             (a) A,,ointmsnt of chief, acquistion of vehicle and five
In DEE.                                                                months specialist services during P1I.
(b) Evaluation of P11 training activities discused at the first
Annual Review.
1B.  Strengthening of capacitie  for effectivo field supervision.       Delivery during PY1 to the  nspectoratee of vehiclos anl
equipmnt; availability of suffici;nt resources for operating
expennse.
0I
w



Measures Agreeu upon                                                              Review Criteria
E. IMPROVEMENT OF SECTOR MANAGEMENT
19.  Training of MEN personnel.                                         (a) Discussion with IDA of CM study finonced by the AfDB by
December 31, 1988 and implementing agreed recom_ndations
within six months;
(b) Two In-country umuinars for 60 middle and higher level
personnel over tho courso of tho project
(c) Twenty-four months fellowships for higher lovel personnel.
20. Personnel mnagement.                                                (a) Review with IDA the Study financed by FAC within three months
of Its submission to MEN, and implement agroed recommendations
within six months;
(b) Delivery of vehicle and equipment during PY1;
(c) Verify during Annual Review the effective and efficient
functioning of personnel management.
21.  Budget procedures.                                                 ()  Short-term specialist missions each year to assist DAAF
in improving Its budget proparation/control procedures;
(b) Twelve months fellowships abroad for DAAFM personnel.
22.  Strengthening planning.                                            (a) Delivery of vehicle and equipment during PYI;
(b) Six months specialist st rvices during PYI for statistics
and computer use; definition of specialist services for subsequent
yers;
(c) Six wnmonthe training abroad during FYI;
(d) In-country training courses for So regional personnol during
mY. 
28. Policy development.                                                     Establishment of the 'Cellule de Reflexion our I Developpement            0Q
I Education' to identify studios;
(b) Completion by end of PYI of 8 studies In preparation for
the Round Table;                                                               0  1
tc) Review of studies ond discussion of policy implications                    "h -
uring Annual Reviows.
24.  Project m*nagoent.                                                 (a) Delivery of equipment during PYI;
(b) Timely submission of reports and audits to IDA;
(c) Timely procurement of goods and services.
b:3-1 .KU (Chadl)



ANNEX 3-1
Appendix
53                               Page 1 of 5
MINISTERE DU PLAN ET DE LA COOPERATION               REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD
SECRETARIAT D'ETAT                        UNITE  -  TRAVAIL  -  PROGRES
Priparation du 4&ne Projet Education
Lettre D'intention du Gouvernement Tchadienr
A Destination de la Banque Mondiale
1.    Avec plus de 5 millions d'habitants, le Tchad a resolument mis en
oeuvre une politique de redressement visant a rehabiliter son economie et ses
institutions, et a consolider son unite nationale et sa souverainete. Malgre
l'enclavement geographique du pays, les problames nombreux d'accessibilit; et
de comunication que pose l'immensite du territoire, les calamitas naturelles
qui ont souvent contrarie les efforts entrepris, lee r;alisations
enregistraes au cours de ces derniires annees en dapit de la crise economique
mondiale, notament do la deterioration des termes de l'echange (en
particulier la chute du prix du coton), constituent ind&niablement la
garantie objective d'un decollage economique reel.
2.     Le secteur de l'Education, en tant que priorite de l'action
gouvernementale, a evolue au cours de cette meme periode de facon
encourageante. Malgre les faibles ressources financiares disponibles, il est
notsmment en croissance constante grace aux efforts conjugues de l'Etat et de
la population.   Regroupees en associations de parents d'eleves ou
intervenant sous la forme d'initiatives communautaires integrees, les
familles tchadiennes *pportent en effet une contribution non negligeable a la
reconstruction de l';difice scolaire. Dans une situation particuli&rement
difficile, il convient do valoriser cot indaniable potentiel on se situont
dans le cadre de la double problem tique a laquelle le Tchad se trouve
actuellement confronte: (i) la volont; de relancer ; tres court terme un
systeme educatif qui a ete serieusement ebranle par los ;venements tout on
visant a satisfaire lea besoins du pays * moyen et long terme en matireo de
Formation, do Main-d'Oeuvre ot d'Emploi d'une part, et (ii) la n;cessite de
realiser l'-dequation des finalitis de l'Education aux realit;s economiques
et financieres du pays d'autr- part.
3.     Avec environ 400.000 el&ves et etudiants, 8.500 agents, 1.600
itablissements ou institutions d'enseignement et 5.000 locaux scolaires, le
systeme educatif tchadien constitue a l'echelle du pays un potentiel mat;riel
ot humain considerable auquol est consacre environ 10Z du budget do l'Etat
(10.72 on 1987). Au sein do ce dispositif qui fonctionne sur la base d'un
taux de scolarisation voisinant 302 de la population scolarisable et qui
demeure tres selectif, l'Enseignement elementaire occupe un place
preponderante (pres de 90Z des effectifs y sont concentres, les 314 du budget
de l'Education Nationale lui sont reserves) et constitui une priorite.
Nonobstant les efforts consentis en faveur du secteur de l'Education et lea
progres notables qui ont d&j& ;te realis;s, une analyse de l'institution
scolaire fait apparaltro qu'un certain nombro do facteurs affectent son



ANNEX 3-1
Appendix
54                                Page 2 of 5
fonctionnement, lesquels se rapportent aux trois domaines suivants: (i) la
qualiti de l'Enseignement (ii) le financement de l'Education (iii) le
rendement du systeme educatif.
i. La aualiti de l'Enseianement:
L'insuffisance de qualification d'une proportion important. du corps
ens-ignant (en particulier des maitres suppliants qui, numiriquement,
reprisontant environ 401 des enseignants), des conditions matirielles
d'enseignement tr;s pricaires (locaux en mauvais itat et en nombre
insuffisant, effectifs souvent plithoriques, absence de mobilier scolaire --
notamoent de tables-bancs - pinurie de manuels ...) ainsi que le manque de
moyens d'intervention au niveau de l'encadrement pidagogique at de la
supervision, sont en grande partie i l'origine de la degradation du niveau et
do la qualiti de l'Enseignement.
ii. Le financement de l'Education:
La capaciti de mobilisation de ressources financires est actuollement
tres limitie compte tenu de l'effort de guerre qui est imposi au pays. Outre
le fait que la part du budget de l'Education Nationale consacree aux
iquipements et au fonctionnement soit minims (41 on 1987) et que les
possibilitis d0investissements propres soient quasiment inexistantes, l'Etat
tchadien, dans sa tache de reconstruction, iprouve des difficultis a assurer
le vorsement rigulier des salaires des fonctionnaires alors quo ces salaires
ne sont percus qu'; hauteur de 601 de leur montant on raison de lleffort de
guerre.
iii.  Le rendement du syst&me aducatif:
L'oefficaciti interne du systeme iducatif demeure faible avec notamment
des taux de redoublement tros alivis (notamment au niveau de la premiere et
de la derniare annie du cycle ilementaire) et un phinomane d'abandon qu'il
conviendrait d'enrayer. En moyenne 10,6 ans sont necessaires pour produire
un diplome de l'Enseignement primaire. A cette baisse de niveau de
friquentation scolaire s'ajoutent des disparitis rigionales et une
participation tros peu significative des filles ; l'Education.
4.     Conscient de ces disiquilibres structurols et de leurs consequences
nigatives, le Gouvernoment tchadien a dicidi d'entreprendre la rihabilitation
du systomo iducatif et d'oeuvrer i son doveloppement ; partir d'une large
riflexion nationale et d'un renforcement de la gestion de l'Education.
5.     La premiore itape du processus de reconstruction et de revitalisation
du secteur de oEducation s'italera sur une duroe de quatre i cinq ans a
compter de l'annie scolaire 1988-89 avec, au plan do la stratigie, un double
objectift (i) en toute premiere urgence, redresser l'Enseignement ilimentaire
qui, en tant que base de lidif ice, est au centre des prioccupations et (ii)
priparer, pour le moyen et long terme, la relance de l'ensemblo du systime
iducatif sur des bases qui correspondent davantage d'une part aux rialitis
socio-iconomiques et culturelles du pays, d'autre part aux perspectives et
aux nicessitis du diveloppement.
6.     En tant que programme d'urgence, la rihabilitation de l'Enseignement
ilimentaire visers prioritairement is (i) rocrier les conditions matiriolles



ANNEX 3-1
Appendix
55                                  Page 3 of 5
n;cessaires i un enseignement efficace; (ii) ameliorer la formation des
maitres et, par voie de consequence la qualite de l'enseignement dispense et
(iii) assurer une meilleure planification et une meilleure gestion du sous-
secteur. Compte tenu des limites budgetaires actuelles, la volonte de
rebatir dans les meilleurs delais une Ecole primairo de qualite implique la
necessite d'entreprendre la rehabilitation de l'Enseignement elementaire en
combinant l'utilisation plus rationnelle et la reaffectation des ressources
existantes avec la limitation des charges recurrentes. De ce fait, cette
r;habilitation menee a bien en valorisant de maniere systematique le capital
que representent parents d'eleves et initiatives communautaires, et en
agissant sur les differentes composantes du systeme selon la stratagie
suivante:
a. Les infrastructures: entreprendre a compter de l'annee scolaire
1988-89, un programme de construction et de refection de batiments scolaires
en faisant en sorte que ceux-ci soient adaptes a l'environnement et aux
conditions locales, avec un usage maximum des materiaux existant dans le
pays. Ce programme concernerait environ 1000 salles de classes pour une
durabilite des constructions satisfaisante et des couAts unitaires
raisonnables.
b. Les parents d'eleves: associer et utiliser le plus l.rgement
possible (notamment pour la mise en oeuvre de ce programme de reconstruction
et pour lentretien ulterieur des batiments scolaires) lea ressources
humaines et les potentialites locales. Il s'agira en particulier de
structurer, de developper et de coordonner les initiatives communautaires-
dont le dynamisme et la capacite de production ont deja ete eprouves au Tchad
- par un appui d'ordre logistique et technique.
c.  Les maltres:  (i) organiser un cycle de formation continue et de
recyclage des maitres en exercice, cycle dont les contenus operationnels
profiteront a un nombre significatif de ma;tres, en accordant une attention
particuliere aux moins qualifis, les maltres suppleants (1,750 d'entre eux,
parmit les plus experimentes, - soit 70Z - beneficieront de cette mise ;
niveau) et (ii) en tant que mesure incitative en faveur des enseignants,
jug;e essentielle, se donner les moyens d'assurer le versement regulier des
salaires des maitres et faire face aux arrieres.
d. Les conditions d'enseignement: recreer les conditions materielles
minima en dotant notamment les elaves et les maitres des matariels
didactiques, du mobilier, des fournitures et de manuels scolaires
indispensables.  L'objectif eat d'equiper tous les maitres et un eleve sur
trois dens l'Enseignement elementaire.
e.  La planification, la gestion et l'encadrement:  (i) renforcer les
structures chargees de la planification de l'Education (notamment afin
d'actualiser les statistiques scolaires et de favoriser la mise en place
d'une carte scolaire); (ii) ameliorer la gestion de l'Education (notamment
ls procedures budgetaires et la gestion des personnels) et (iii) ameliorer
l'encadrement et l'animation pedagogique des maitres sur le terrain en
renforcant les structures de supervision (en particulier les Inspections de
l'Enseignement elementaire et,les Centres Regionaux de Formation Continue).



ANNEX 3-1
Appendix
56                                   Page 4 of 5
7.     Conjointement a cette remise sur pied de l'Enseignement ilimentaire
qui permettra d'asseoir le systime educatif sur des bases renforcees, une
re'flexion approfondie sera *ngagec dans le pays afin do preparer la relance
*t le diveloppement de l'ensemble du systeme iducatif (Enseignement
secondaire *t superieur compris), dans une double perspective: (i) d'une part
la difinition des grandes lignes dWune politique iducative rinovee et adaptee
tant *ux besoins qu'aux moyens du Tchad et (li) d'autre part et en
consequence, une meilleure ma'trise de l'expansion de la scolarisation et un
divoloppement iquilibri de l'Education pour les annees a venir. Pour engager
ce processus a caractore prospectif diverses mesures ont d'ores et dija it;
prises:
a.  relance au sein du Minist;re de l'Education Nationale de la
Cellule do riflexion sur le systeme iducatif avec pour mission premire
l'exploration de thames et la rialisation d''itudes jug;es indispensables;
b.  mise en place au Ministare du Plan et de la Cooperation d'un
Comiti technique interministiriel chargi de priparer la Table-Ronde des
bailleurs de fonds pour le secteur des Ressources Humaines, en particulier du
sous-secteur Formation - Education;
c. mobilisation de l'ensemble des hauts responsables et des cadres de
1'Education a travers les actions de priparation du 4eme Projet a financer
par IDA/Banque Mondiale.
S.     Les principes suivants dieteront le cadre et lea grandes orientations
do cette politique iducative. Ils concernents
a. le financement do l'Educationt (i) augmenter progressivement, et
co, dans la mesure du possible, la part du budget de 1'Etat consacrie au
fonctionnement de l'Education Nationale; (ii) encourager et divelopper
parallelement le soutien des initiatives communautaires ; l'Education; (iii)
au moins priserver la part du budget de l'Education actuellement consacree a
lenseignement ilementaire; (iv) veiller au versement r6gulier des salaires
des enseignants; (v) ; l'interieur du budget de l'education, augmenter les
affectations budgetaires en faveur du fonctionnement (materiels); et (vi)
pratiquer une politique attentive de recrutement et de gestion des
personnels.
b.  La scolarisations  donner a la pyramide scolaire un profll plus
harmonieux et'plus iquilibri et, pour y parvenirt (i) faire en sorte que
1'accroissement de la scolarisation dans l'enseignement ilementaire permette
nianmoins de priserver l'enseignement secondaire et superieur des pressions
auxquelles ils seront soumis et de les diversifier; (ii) tenir ccmpte des



ANNEX 3-1
Appendix
Page 5 of 5
57
besons prioritaires du pays et de la capacite d'absorption du marche du
travail; (iii) prendre lea dispositions internes ; l'Education Nationale qui
s'lmposent pour reguler les flux d'oilves, r;duire 108 taux d'abandon et de
redoublement ainsi que les disparitis et canaliser ces flux (notament au
moment du passage d'un cycle ; l'autre); (iv) reserver a lenseignueint
technique ot professionnel la place et le role qui doivent otre le stens
dan une perspective de d;v loppement afin notamment d'ondiguer la p;nurie de
main-d'oeuvre qualifiee et 1l chomage des dipl' 's des enseignoments
secondaire et sup4rieur.
Le 17 juin 1988
Le M    tr  du Plan et de la Cooperation
Soumaila Mahamat
/-e
~~~~/\



58
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 19
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SYSTEME EDUCATIF
Renforcement des initiatives communautaires your la construction scolaire
A.  DIAGNOSTIC DU CONTEXTE ACTUEL
I.   Le oatrimoine immobilier tchadien
1.        His a part les ouvrages & caractere public dans les grands
centres urbains et un certain heritage des' infrastructures de la colonie,
le domaine biti tchadien, utilise largement les mat6rieux locaux, la
terre, la pierre, le bois, lee fibres vegetales. Chaque region a son
identite architecturale propre qui traduit ses specialites geo-
climatiques, sociologiques et 6conomiques. Dana cette perspective, une
rehabilitation du patrimoine immobilier prendra en compte ces indicateurs
culturels pour les traduire en ternme de realisation lors des renovations
et des reconstructions.
2.        Lee r&gimes foncier et immobilier.  En dehors des zones de
concentration oi La pressioa sur Le domaine foncier tend & modifier les
structures de la propri6t6 fonciere, la terre appartient a la coUlectivite
et plus particuliArement & celui qui en a l'usage.
3.        Les modes de oroduction.  La majeure partie des populations
connait et pratique lee methodes de la construction traditionnelle et leur
entretien: pise banchA; maqonnerie des parpaings de terre crue (adobe);
enduits de terre a granulom6trie appropri6e; charpente en bois et
couverture vegdtale; treillis de seko. Toutes ces techniques ne demandent
aucun outillage particulier, tant pour les mises en oeuvre que pour leur
entretien.
4.        En milieu rural, la plupart du patrimoine immobilier est auto-
construit. En milieu urbain, si l'auto-construction est souvent pratiquee
pour les habitations, il existe deux autres modes de production couramment
utilisi8s
(a) passation de marches avec un entrepreneur local sur une base
forfaitaire appr6ci.e a partir d'un devis plus ou moins
dAtaillA.  En general. un entrepreneur a'entoure d'artisans
specialises payes a la tiche et la main-d'oeuvre non specialisee
est engag6e sur place;
(b) gestion et surveillance des travaux par le maitre de l'ouvrage
qui travaille en r6gie avec une main-d'oeuvre engag6e et payee
directement par lui.



59
jUnK3-2
5.        Le sol. les mat6riaux et la construction.  On peut definir doux
grandes catigories; au nord, des fonds sablonneux qui exigent une portance
continue des fondations et une protection particuli6re des bords de
soubassement contre i'*rosion 6olienne; dans le reste du pays, des fonds
lateritiques argileux qui gonflent avec l'absorption d1humidit# de surface
it qui n6cessitent de fonder les ouvrages sur les couches non atteintes
par 1'humidit# superficielle.
6.        Les matfriaux peuvent Otre divises en trois categories qui,
respectivement, correspondent A trois types de construction en dur ,
'semi-dur' et saisonAiire.
(a)  Les mat6riaux durables sont en general cotteux et souvent
imports.  Ils exigent un savoir-faire et un outillage
particulier:
j - le b6ton de ciment qui pose le probleme des agregats tres
difficiles A trouver dans certaines regions du pays et qui
necessite beaucoup d'eau pour ma fabrication et la prise
initiale;
_    Les profils m6talliques importes avec des caract6ristiques
m6caniques faibles et irregulieres;
-    les tOles d'aluminium ou d'acier galvanir', avoc une faible
rOsistance au cisaillement;
-    les briques d'argile cuite appareillees au mortier de
ciment, d'un coUt 6cologique anorme (1 A 1,5 m3 de bois de
feux par m3 de produit cuit).
(b)  Les mat6riausx a Drotteor sont bon march.  Ils peuvent itre
durables s'ils sont mis en oeuvre de manuire appropriCes
-    les parpaings de terre;
-    la pierre (is oa elle existe);
-    le mortier et les enduits de terre;
-    le bois (souvent import# des pays voisins).
(c)  Les mat6riaux pArissables A trem faible coUt de fourniture et de
mise en oeuvre, utilises your des hangars provisoirest
-    la paille;
-    le seko (fibre de palmier r8nier).
II. Les infrastructures scolaires existantes
7.        La situation z6n6rale
(a)  Le patrimoine scolaire du niveau 6l1mentaire, suit lee
d6mographies regionales, partant, une densiti d'infrastructures
faible au nord et forte au sud, la region de la capitale etant



60
gNX3-21
rage 3 ot 
un point de concentration particulier. Lee infrastructures
officielles existantes en dur et semi-dur dont on peut presumer
qu'elles sont reparables, reprisentent environ un-tiers du
patrL.oine, alors que lee deux autres tiers sont en poto-poto ou
en seko et ne peuvent pas Otre r6habilit6s. A quelques rares
exceptions pris, lee bitiments scolaires no sont pas entretenus.
C'est en milieu urbain qua l'on relive le plus do constructions
en 'dur^ dont une bonne partie date d'avant les anniee soizante-
dix. Ces constructions, pour degrad6es qu'elles sont, semblent
pouvoir itre rihabilit6e facilement Les constructions en
*semi-dur" situ6es plutOt en milieu rural, reprisentent une trei
petite partie du patrimoine. Ces constructions ne sont en
general pas tris anciennes et ne necessitent probablement qu'un
bon entretien et le remplacement de quelques elements de second
oeuvre.
(b)  Les icoles sRontanies et non agreees pz~r le MEN, dont les
caractiriutiques constructives ne sont statistiquement pas
identifiees, repr6sentent plus de 15S des infrastructures
totales. La plupart d'entre elles ne sont pas en construction
durable.
(c)  Les logemento des mattres ont des statuts tree divers.  Soit le
maStre loue une maison a son compte, soit il fait construire une
maison par les ileves, qui devient alors propriet& de l'cole,
donc du MEN. Dans certains cas, en milieu rural, l'association
de parents met des logemfints a disposition des mattres. Les
directeurs d'*coles sont souvent loges dans des habitations
faisant partie de l'ecole.
(d) Les 6quipements mobiles, tableaux noirs et tables-bance, sont
trem inQgalement ripartis dans les icoles. Souvent les eleves
sont assis par terre ou sur un banc de terre. Les equipements
tables-bancs en boim sont ephemeres en raison de l'agression des
termites et pour cette raison, dans certaines 6coles, les
tables-bancs sont en beton.
(e) Un des facteurs trms im;ortants de limitation de la duree de vie
des ouvragee est l'agression des termites, et l1irosion 6olienne
et pluviale a l'assise des murs des batiments.
8.        Le vatrimoine immobilier de l'enseianement elfmentaire.  Le
Tchad qui compte 4,390 salles de classes (dont 590 appartiennent A des
ecoles spontan6es, non reconnues par l'Etat) possede un reseau scolaire
pour l'enseignement fondamental dont les caracteristiques sont les
suivantes: (a) fortes disparitis entre les classes rurales et urbaines;
(b) un etat de degradation alarmant (en effet, 602 des classes requiirent
d'importants travaux de rehabilitation et les 402 restant, composis
d'abris provisoires, nicessitent une reconstruction); (c) les salles de
classe rialisees entiirement par l'Etat selon des techniques durables sont
fonctionnelles mais chires (7.000.000 ?CPA soit 25.454 dollars par
classe); (d) tandis que cellos construites par les communautes, qui



61
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 ot iO
constituent la part essentielle, se caract6risent par un manque
d'efficacit6 de l'investissement (fonctionnalit# et durabilit6). Le
tableau qui suit (Tableau 1) resume le diagnustique du contexte actuel.
Tableau I
Ratio        Ratio
Nombre        Nombre          Nombre de      classes/      *llves/
d'6l6ves      d'#coles        classes        6coles        classe
Ecoles
reconnues
par 1'Etat   312.400         1.320          3.800          2.8            82
Ecoles                                        590          1.2
spontanAes                     480
9.      Le.s appuis ezistant dans le domaine des infrastructures scolaires
comprennent: (i) un projet de 1lUNICEP pour iquiper en tables-bancs les
*coles des prefectures du nord-est du pays; (ii) un projet du FED pour la
realisation d'infrastructures scolaires au sud du Chari Baguirmi; et (iii) un
projet de Swissaid pour la r6alisation d'infrastructures scolaires dans les
pr6fectures du Kanem, du Chari-Baguirmi et du Mayo Kebbi.
B. STRATEGIE DE L'OPERATION
I.   Cadre iOnOral
10.          Tenant compte du diagnostic de la situation actuelle et du
principal objectif qui consiste a r6habiliter les infrastructures scolaires
existantes, tout en sauvegardant lee investissements r6alis6s par les APE et
les mecanismes dynamiques qui ont permis ces investissements, les strategies
de mise en oeuvre auront les caracthristiques suivantes:
(a) lee choix de gestion et de mise en oeuvre des ouvrages permettront
aux APE de poursuivre et de rentabiliser leurs actions et leur
contribution financiere;
(b)  le rythme des operations sera ditermine par lee initiatives et les
disponibilit6s des APE;
(c) les solutions techniques, technologies et architecturales devront
prendre en considaration les techniques et le savoir-faire des
comnmautes; et
(d) les strategies dans leur conception tiendront compte des fortes
disparites entre les infrastrutures communales et hors communales.



62
ANNEX 3-2.
rage 3 r1
II. Cadre institutionel
11.          La mise en oeuvre de l'operation proc*de par deux niveaux de
gestion d'une part, l'appui technique durant l'exscution de la rehabilitation
des infrastructures; d'autre part, l'appui financier, our le terrain, & la
r6alisation des programmes.
12.          Au niveau central.  Un Bureau du Projet est cre6 au seln du MEN
pour coordonner l'oplration en collaboration avec le Service de la
planification scolaire (SPS). Le Bureau de projet renforce le Service de la
planification scolaire et l'appuie dans sa restructuration et sa
decentralisation au niveau regional. 1 ss dote des capacit6s techniques
nOcessaires, notamment dans lea domaines de la gestion de rhalisation des
infrastructures. Le Bureau du Projet et le SPS solliciteront autant que
possible l'appui du Service des batimAents du Ministare des travaux publics
(TP) en matiere de suivi des realisations et de gestion ultArieure de
l'entretien des ouvrages. Le Bureau de projet et le SPS organisent des
formations-sensibilisatons des autorit6s regionales (inspecteurs et d6l*gu6s
rhgionaux des TP) relattves aux conceptions et modes de mise en oeuvre des
programes de rehabilitation des infrastructures scolaires. La mission du
MEN en matiere d'infrastructure consiste essentiellement A:
(a) d6finir gAographiquement les projets ou programmes r6gionaux en
tenant compte des autres projets existants;
(b) d'6tablir des normes de realisation;
5C) d'6tablir les contraintes et conditions technologiques, techniques et
architecturales;
(d)  de g6rer le budget global du projet, lee budgets des programmes
regionaux planifi6s en tranches de finincement par programme
saisonnier;
(e)  de superviser et coordonner lee programes r6gionaux dans le fil des
conceptions g6n6rales du MEN en matiere d'infrastructures scolairess;
(f) d'approuver les projets locaux proposes par les inspecteurs
principaux;
(g) d'enregistrer les rehabilitations et les reconstructions en tenant a
jour une carte nationale de l'avancement des r6alisations et une
fiche signaletique par etablissement touchh;
(h) de mettre en place lee instruments et lee procedures d'un suivi
permanent;
(L) d'Qlaborer et d'approuver lee lignes directrices des protocoles
d'accord entre les APE et les cellules d'appui aux programmes
r6gionaux en matiere de contribution des APE, de gestion du projet
local et d'entretien des ouvrages.



63
ANNEX  3-2
rage bnO rl9
13.          Au niveau regional.  Une cellule d'appui au programme regional
eat cr66e dans chaque region du projet (Moundou et N'Djamena durant les deux
premieres annees et de Houndou et Abeche durant les troisieme et quatrilme
annees du projet). Elles sont lee organes operationels de mise en oeuvre du
projet. Elles sont plac6es sous l'autorit6 des inspections principales et
collaborent avec les inspections elementaires pour l'laboration des
programes saisonniers. L'inspection 6tablit sa propre collaboration avec le
delegue regional des TP pour le choix, l'approbation et la reception par les
APE des projets locaux. La cellule d'appui au programe regional est charges
des t*ches suivantess
(a)  aides dans sa t*che par une antenne mobile, sensibiliser les APE,
appuyer la preparation et la realisation de projets locaux et veiller
A la formation du personnel;
(b) organiser et #laborer le prngramme de l'antenne en collaboration avec
l inspecteur;
(c) definir, appuyer et suivre la conception, la gestion, l'organisation
et l'execution des ttches et responsibilites de l'antenne locale;
(d)  examiner et ratifier lee propositions de projets locaux; collaborer
etroitement avec l'antenne pour resoudre les probl&mes de gestion et
de technique, en vue d'adapter les projets locaux aux specificites
locales;
(e) examiner lea propositions de projet locaux, visiter les lieux et, a
cette occasion, signer conjointement avec l'inspection concernee et
les APE, un protocole d'accords qui respecte les lignes directrices
du protocole d'accord 6laborC par le Bureau du projet;
(f) coordonner lee projets locaux entre eux et lee inscrire dans le
programme regional saisonnier, elaborer le programse et le budget
regional en collaboration avec les inspecteurs principaux et le faire
approuver par le Bureau du projet qui effectue les paiements;
(g) coordonner et concentrer lea approvisionnements en mat6riauz non
locaux, preparer les appels d'offres au niveau regional et passation
de marches pour lea petites quantites;
(h)  faire appel au Bureau du projet pour lee commandes meritant d'@tre
centralis6es (tOles, profil metal, bois d'oeuvre, ciment, etc.); les
contrats avec des transporteure feront l'objet de contrats regionaux
passes avec le syndicat de transporteurs;
(i;  gerer le stock de materiel et veiller a l'approvisionnement des
projets locaux au fur et a mesure de l'avancement des travaux;
(j) gerer le budget regional de fonctionnement depose dans une banque
locale (salaires, materiel divers, logistique, roulement), gerer le
personnel local et informer regulierement le Bureau du projet de



64
ANNEX 3-2
Page v or 19
l'avancement des r6alisations et de la situation du program.e
regional (situation trimestrielle).
14.          Au niveau local.  L'santenne mobile est cre6e et fonctionne sous
ltegide de la cellule d'appui au programme regional. Elle a des capacites
dans lee domaines de l'animation-sensibilisation en milieu rural etlou urbain
et dans lea domaines de la construction. L'antenne locale est l'instrument
d'execution de l'operation, proche du terrain et des mentalites. Sa ttche
est essentielle. Elle est appuyee par la cellule de soution au programm
regional dans les domaines de la formation-aensibilisation des APE, des
adaptations techniques, technologiques et architecturales et de la gestion de
ses t*ches. L'antenne mobile ne se substitue pas aux APE. mais elle valorise
et appuie leurs initiatives en matiere d'infrastructure et d'equipement,
qu'elles traduisent en termes d'auto-construction ou de financement de
travaux. Les antennes mobiles sont charg6es des tSches suivantes:
(a) diffuser une information large dans les zones d'influence de
lVopCration;
(b)  sensibiliser lee APE et/ou solidarites villageoises aus objectifs du
projet, examiner les problames specifiques de lCcole, identifier lee
besoins et evaluer les potentialites des contributions des parents
d'616ves;
(c) elaborer avec les APE un avant-projet de rehabilitation en termes
d'entretien, de reparation ou de reconstruction, appreciation du coat
ou de la contribution en main-d'oeuvre de l'op6ration et recherche
d'une adequation avec les potentialit6s des APE;
(d) le eas echhant, adaptation technique, technologique et architecturale
et elaboration d'un projet et dev-is de la rhalisation. Evaluation de
la contribution APE et de l'appui technique et en fournitures du
projet (preparation de la liste de materiel et fournitures non locaux
faisant partie de la contribution du projet);
(e) soumettre a la cellule d'appui au programme regional l, proposition
complete du projet qui, suite a ea visite sur le terrain, signe le
protocole d'accord avec l'APE;
(f) suivre et appuyer la realisation au plan technique, technologique et
organisation de chantier, veiller au bon approvisionnement en
mathriaux non-locaux au fur et a mesure de la mise a disposition de
la contrepartie APE;
(g) le responsable de l'antenne informe trimestriellement la cellule
d'appui de l'avancement des travaux et de lhtat de la situation,
notamment au niveau des contributions APE;
(h) mettre en place le systime et le pianning d'entretien des ouvrages
par l'APE.



65
ANNEX 3-2
Page 8 of 19
Les APE sont charRees deo
Mi)  faire une demande d'appui justifiee aupras de l'Inspection
lementaire en prenant contact avec l'antenne pour identifier,
6valuer et organiser le projet;
(ii) participer activement A 1161aboration du projet de leur Atablissement
scolaire et s'engager sur leur contribution;
(iii)  contribuer aux r6alisations et/ou financement par leur force de
travail et/ou par des fonds propres pour au moins l'quivalent de la
main-d'oeuvre necessaire & la realisation de l'ouvrage;
(iv) assurer la surveillance permanente des travaux;
(v)  stocker et garder le matariaux non-locaux fournis par le projet;
(vi) slengager & respecter les clauses concernant l'entretien qui sont
pr&cis6es dans le protocole d'accord.
III. Financement
15.          Les coats unitaires d'amortissement des infrastructures de
rehabilitation peuvent Otre sensiblement rAduits grAce:
(a)  a la conservation, dans une premiAre phase, du nombre de classes
existantes;
(b)  au d6veloppement et a la mise en oeuvre de techniques et technologies
appropri&es de construction a faible coat d'investissement initial et
d'entretien;
(c)  au recours a l'architecture et au mode de construction traditionnel a
fort coefficient de main-d'oeuvre et d'utilisation des matiriaux
locaux qui limite egalement les exportations de devises et les effets
des hausses de prix des mat6risux importes;
(d)  & l'importance donn#e aux programmes de construction executis par les
associations de parents et/ou solidarites villageoises;
(e)  aus contributions importantes des associations de parents et a is
reconnaissance par l'Etat de la responsabilites en matiure de
construction et d'entretien aux APE;
(f)  a la dacentralisation du projet en programmes r6gionaux et antennes
locales qui r6duit sensiblement les coats logistiques et de
fonctionnement.
IV. Choix technologiaues
16.          Les orientations qui president a ce choix relevent de la
necessite de diminuer les codts de construction tout on revalorisant



66
4NNE   3-2
rage v or 19
l'efficacitE de l'investissement. La dur6e de vie qui est vis#e est de 25
ans, compte tenu d'un entretien ordinaire, sans remplacement de matlriaux.
Afin de laisser une large part a la main-d'oeuvre en vue de permettre aux APE
de contribuer aux realisations avec leur force de travail, lea choix
constructifs mettent en oeuvre des savoir-faire techniques et technologiques
connus au niveau. local.
17.          Les choix proposes tiennent compte d'exp6rience d&jA r6alis6es
dans le pays, notamment dans le cadre du projet Swissaid, dont les
orientations conduisent aux memes propositions constructives. Tirant parti
de cette exp6rience, des am6liorations necessaires doivent Otre apportles au
mode de construction en wsemi-dur' pour que la duree de vie des imuoubles
puisse Otre port.e a 25 ans.  Ces am6liorations portent notamment sur le
rehaussement du soubassement, le remplacement de pannes en bois par des
profils m6talliques, afin de ne pas donner prise aux termites. Dans cette
perspective, une 6tude prealable sera entreprise afin d'optimaliser le mode
de construction en *semi-dur".
18.          Nouvelles constructions.  Les classes de 70m2 permettent
d'accueillir jusqu'a 80 elaves (les effectifs tenant compte des normes
internationales de 1,16 m2/61ive). Description des ouvragess immeuble
fond6, toiture A deux pans poses sur murs et pignons, deux classes dos a dos.
Profondeur des fondations: 1,2 m, ex#cut&e en ma;onnnerie (selon la rlgion en
argile cuite, cailloux ou parpaings maconnes au mortier de ciment), chatnage
en longrine beton arm6, soubassement hors terre en memes matlriaux quo la
fondation, hauteur 70cm sans enduit de ciment ni de terre. Hurs et pignons
en maconnerie de parpaings de terre appareill6s au mortier de terre,
trottoir pdriph6rique du bAtiment recouvert avec les dechets de mat6rioux
durs (briques cass6s, cailloux, etc.) dam* jusqutau droit du bord de toiture,
afin de lutter contre l'erosion, barrieres anti-termites en tOle posees sur
soubassement en 'dur' avec debordement intlrieur et exterieur de la barriere.
Structure portanto primaire en arc plein-cintre en ma;onnerie de briques
crues format 40 s 60, epaisseur 10cm, posees couchees montees sur gabarit en
bois ou ferme m6tallique pose our mur; structure secondaire en pannes
metalliques profil tube 50/50 ou profil corniere min. 50/50/4, amarrage des
structures avec des platines. Toiture en tOle ondulee aluminium 6/10 pente
minimum 10 fix&e avec des crochets ad-hoc. Ouverture de ventilation 28 m2
par des echancrures dans les murs laterauz fermees avec du grillage. Portes
et fenetres en *bois rouge* et tOle ondul6e aluminium 6/10 posees sur cadre
m6tallique. Equipement mobilier de classe avec table-banc en bois pour les
parties horizontales et en beton ou parpaing de ciment pour les parties
verticales, longuour deux metres pr6v4e pour quatre enfants, acceptable pour
c$nq enfants.
19.          Les ouvrases a r6habiliter.  Les salles de classe *en durl et
*en semi-durs sont classees en trois categories suivant la gravite des de8gts
et les modes de construction:
(a) petites rlparations;
(b) grosses reparations;



67
ANNEX 3-2
Fage iU of.19
(c)  non r6parables pour un co1t raisonnable tsi le montant de la
raparation devait s'#lever a plus de la moitie du codt d'une
construction neuve de m8me standard).
Les Detites rboarations comprennent la refection des enduits et
peintures, et surtout la reprise des scellements des menuiseries, des chapes
et le nivellement des abords pour Oviter 1Verosion.
Les trosses r6parations, ddsign6es par le terme rehabilitation, qui
representent la majorite des classes existantes comprennent, en plus des
interventions pr6c6dentes, la remise en etat des elOments structurels tels
que charpentes, toitures, murs fissures et affouillements des fondations.
20.          L'entretien oiriodiaue.  Apres une r6habilitation ou une
construction, la responsibilit6 de l'entretien incombe aux Associations de
parents d'6*lves qui, fortes de leur contribution, sont propriftaires, et
responsables du patrimoine.  A la fin des travaux, un guide d'entretien sera
remis aus APE avec la description vulgarisee des modes et rythmes d'entretien
des immeubles. En principe, les entretiens courants ne necessitent pas
d'ouitillage particulier et peuvent Otre faits par une main-d'oeuvre non
specialisee. Le projet cr&e un fonds d'entretien extraordinaire qui sera
depose au MEN et g6rn par le Service de la planification scolaire. Ce fonds
est destine a des fournitures de materialsu non locaux qui auraient ete
endommages prematurAment (toiture arrachee par le vent par exemple). Ce
fonds est debloqu6 par une demande de l'APE ratifiee par l'inspecteur
principal. Le fonds est realimente au fur et & mesure par le MEN.
C. METRODOLOGIE DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROGRAMME DE REHABILITATION ET DE
MAINTENANCE
21.          Concilier l'urgent et l'important.  L'Avanescence d'une
structure etatique de systame scolaire a induit une Amergence d'autonomie, de
dynamisme, d'initiatives et de solidarite remarquables. Cette situation est
sans conteste un capital national enorme qui doit Atre preserve et valorise.
Dans cette perspective, conscient de l'uimportance de cet acquis et du
potentiel qu'il represente, le projet de rehabilitation des infrastructures
scolaires tchadiennes ne se pose pas en maltre d'oeuvre unique, mais vient en
appui a ces structures informelles spontanees. Ce choix implique la
reconnaissance des diversitAs regionales, locales et villageoises et de leur
autonomie, des rythmes et des disponibilites spAcifiques dependant notamment
de pratiques, des savoir-faire et des matAriaux locaux. Cette option qui
privilAgie un travail int6gr6 par opposition a un mode plus
interventionniste, qui serait peut-Otre plus rapide, est la concession a la
necessith de promouvoir un developpement ancr* dans le milieu. En
consequence, le projet Rehabilitation des infrastructures se dote d'une
importance structure d'appui-formation-sensibilisation et le rytbme prAsume
de l'avancement de l'opfration permet de viser de r6habilitater le quart du
patrimoine existant en cinq ans.



68
ANNEX 3-2
Page 11 ot 19
I.   Preparation, etudes pr6alables
22.          Un credit de pr6paration de oroiet (FPP) a #t6 mis en place.
Dane ce cadre. une ftude-analyse des APE a ete entreprise. Compte tenu de la
phase initiale d'installation au niveau central, regional et local qul durera
six mois, un programme pilote sera entrepris parallelement & la phase
d'installation, avec l'avantage de pouvoir d6jA collaborer avac lee actaurs
de l'operation. Ainsi, let eventuelles exp6rimentations a l'echalle grandeur
pourront se r6aliser 'in situ' dans des conditions r6elles.
23.          Etude ar#alable dans les domaines des technoloties alpirolpries.
du ienie civil et des eauinements.  Les ouvrages realises en Osemi-dur' dans
le cadre du projet Swissaid ont une dur6o de vie de dix A quinze ans, selon
les qualit6s de mise on oeuvre et les conditions climatiques. L'objectif
d'une etude prealable et d'experimentation d'amelioration en mati$re de
technologie vise l'allongement de la duree de vie des immeubles a plus de 25
ans par des ameliorations a faible plus-value.
Au plan technologique, l'etude porte surs
(a. la lutte contre l'attaque des termites dans la maConnerie de terre
(b) la recherche de solutions appropri6es d'enduits stabilises sur la
maconnerie de terre crue;
(c) le contrOle de la qualite des briques cuites, notamment du point de
vue de leur stabilite au gonflement & l'humidite;
Au plan du genie civil, letude porte sur:
(d) la recherche d'un system. de fondation approprie;
(e) l1evaluation de l'opportunite de realiser une structure primaire en
arc plein-cintre appareillC en brique de terre crue;
(f) le dimensionnament d'une structure primaire et secondaire en metal,
on toutes autres solutions alternatives;
Pour le mobilier scolaire, l'tude porte surt
(g) la recherche de modeles economiques et pormettant d'accueillir lea
effectifs moyens par salle de classe.
24.          Zalisation de PrototyPes.  Doe prototypes seront realises
prealablement au demarrage des actions de rehabilitation sur le terrain. Co
dossier integrera les choix constructifs du projet et lee conclusions des
6tudos au plan technologique. Les documents necessaires a la construction
des prototypes seront etablis sous forme do fiche technique.



69
ANNEX 3-2
rage z or 19
II. Installation
25.          La phase d'installation, qui comprend la rOalization des
prototypes 'in situ', et la formation du personnel est dvalu6e a environ six
mois.
26.          Au niveau central.  Le Bureau du projet et le coordinateur de la
cellule de Djamena organisent _es formations-sensibilisations des
responsables nationaux et des volontairs. La direction du Bureau sera
assistee par des services de spicialistes ponctuels pour lee ateliers-
seminaires de demarrage.
27.          Au niveau regional et local.  La cellule d'appui au programme
regional conduit les s9minaires regionaux de demarrage pour initier et
sensibiliser les autorites regionales et lee futurs intervennts. Les
coordinateurs des antennes locales sont formes-sensibilis6s au travail
d' animation.
III. Droulement de l'op6ration
28.          Les priorit6s afin de r6pondre & l'uraence.
(a) La rAhabilitation et l'aquipement des batiments existants en 'dur' et
'semi-dur' seront lee premiers owvrages a realiser en raison du
rendement optimal de l'investiasement qui est le tiers de la
construction 'ex nihilos pour un m0me volume construit.
(b) Le remplacement et l'quipement des Gcoles existantes construites en
'poto-poto' et en 'seko'.
(c)  L'appui aux initiatives dos APE en matiere d'entretien periodique des
Gcoles.
29.          Mobilisation des ressources communautaires.
(a) Une premiere infoamtion-sensibilisation au niveau des autorites
regionales.
(b) Dans un deuxieme temps,le coordinateur local, accompagne de
l'inspecteur concerne, rencontre la communaute constituee de l'APE
et/ou solidarite villageoise, la direction de l'ecole, le chef du
village ou du quartier et les notables pour expliquer le* activit6s
envisagees et les responsabilit6s des parties concernees. Les
problemes sont identifies et les solutions envisag.es. L'APE prend
connaissance dans le detail dei conditions d'une eventuelle
collaboration, notamment concernant sa contrepartie en force de
travail et/ou capacite financiere. Une plaquette de presentation du
projet et des conditions de la collaboration est remise A l'APE.
(c) Suite a ce premier contact, la communaut& examine lea propositions et
*value ma capacite A contribuer & l'operation. Si necessaire elle



70
ANNEX 3-2
Page ii or Ig
sollicite d'autres entretiens pour de plus amples informations ou
pour un appui a l'elaboration de son projet.
(d) Apr6s que la communauti ait d6lib#r6, elle informe l'antenne locale
et, le cas #ch6ant, sollicite un appui pour la r6habilitation de
l1etablissement scolaire.
30.          Engagement de la communaute.
(a) Forte de la demande d'appui, suite au travail de sensibilisation,
l'antenne locale appuie la communaut6 pour l'laboration d'un projet
specifique d'entretien, de r6habiliation ou de reconstruction. Ce
projet tient compte des specificites locales et stipule les
engagements des deux parties contractuelles, notamment la nature et
la mesure de la contribution de la communaut6 en pr6cisant squi fait
q"oi', 'quand' et "comments.  Le projet pr6cisera aussi qui s'engage,
APE et/ou communaute villageoise.
(b)  Sur la base de ce projet, un protocole d'accord est passe entre les
deux parties. Ce protocole inclue le projet et precise les apports
de chacun, notament pour l'APEt fonds collectes, main-d'oeuvre,
mat6riaux, gardiennage, etc.
31.          Engagement du proiet.
(a) L'antenne local pr6sente et d6fend le projet local au sein de la
cellule d'appui au programme regional qui, aprAs approbation, ratifie
Le protocole d'accord et intOgre le projet local dans son programme
regional.
(b) La cellule d'appui fait sa demande de cr6dit en espece et en
mat6riaux aupres du Bureau du projet. La demande est groupie pour
plusieurs projets locaux; elle est accompagnie de la fiche
signal6tique de chaque projet local, &fin que le Bureau du projet
6tablisse la carte de I'avancement du programme national de
r6habilitation.
(c) La cellule d'appui pr6pare la r6alisation, 6tablit son planning
d'appui aux projets locaux et veille au bon approvisionnement des
matAriaux.
32.          La realisation en milieu rural (auto-constructionl.
L'experience montre qu'en milieu rural les contributions des communautes sont
essentiellement en force de travail. I1 n'y a donc pas lieu de pr6voir de
processus d'appel d'offres.
(a) Si le projet esot un entretien-rAhabilitation, la cellule d'appui
fournit les mat Ariaux non locaux et l'antenne locale l'appui
technique. La communaut6 fournit la main-d'oeuvre non sp6cialisde et
sp6cialisee et la surveillance r6gulibre des travaux.



71
ANNEX  3-2
eage 14 ot 9g
(b) Si le projet est une reconstruction, l'antenne locale proc6de a
l'implantation et la cellule d'appui fournit les materiaux non locaux
apres que la communaut6 ait creuse et realise les fondations et lee
soubassements et fabrique les blocs devant servir A la construction.
La suite de la r6alisation est g6r6e par 1'APE et appuy#e par les
techniciens de l'antenne locale qui assure une juste mise en oeuvre
et donne des conseils et consignes de realisation.
33.          La realisation en milieu urbain (par entreprise ou en reaie).
En milieu urbain. le plus souvent la IcommunauteA se raduit aux seuls parents
d'elaves constitues en APE. La population urbaine, peu encline A mettre a
disposition sa force de travail. fait souvent le choir de contribuer
financihrement aux efforts communautaires. Les realisations d'entretien-
rehabilitation ou de reconstruction seront donc plutOt realisees par des
entrepreneur ou en regie contrdlde. En milieu urbain comme en milieu rural.
le iroiet ne fournit aue les mat6riaux non-locaux et llayui techniaue a la
realisation. En consequence, l'APE doit r6colter parmi ses membres le
financement du travail d'execution de la realisation.
(a) Pour des travaux d'entretien-rihabilitation ou pour une
reconstruction, l'antenne, our la base du projet local, appuie 1'APE
pour l'Vlaboration d'un cahier des charges de la realisation qui sera
soumis aux entrepreneurs locaux ou a un capita qui fera une offre en
rAgie contrOlle ou encore 1'APE pourra gArer l'op6ration en regie
propre.
(b) Dane tous les cas, l'APE reste responsable de la bonne execution des
travaux qu'elle commande elle-mOme; c'est elle qui g8re le stock de
mat6riaux non locaux fourni par la cellule d'appui.
(c) Le march& Atant financ6 par 1'APE, c'est elle aussi qui adjuge les
travaus en cas de travail avec un entrepreneur.
IV. Hise en Dlace du systame d'entretien
34.          Les instructions d'entretien sont definies par l'tude pr6alable
au niveau de l'architecture et de la construction.  Elles font partie du
dossier technique pour la r6alisation qui se prAsente sous la forme d'une
collection de fiches techniques, avec nota-ment la recommandation en matiore
d'entretien. Le dossier complet est redis A l'APE A la fin des travaux. Le
protocole de remise des bOtiments sp6cifie que 1'APE s'engage A entrenir les
ouvrages selon l'instruction du dossier d'entretien. Une fiche de suivi
accompagne le dossier et permet ainsi A l'APE de planifier sea interventions
et de consigner ses travaux d'entretien. Sur la mOm. fiche l'inspecteur,
lors de ses tournmes , fera ses commentaires relatifs A 1'Atat des
intallations scolaires.
35.          Le recours au fonds d'entretien extraordinaire pour des
degradations accidentelles doit Otre approuv6 par l'inspection concern6e. La
demande est adressee directement au MEN. ou Service de la planification
scolaire.



72
ANNC 3-2
Page 13 of I9
D. LBS WY_INS MCZSSAIUS Z? LBS COWTS
36.          CoUtt.  Souls lee composantes sp6ciflques du volet
Infrastructure $omt ptLr on consid6ration. LlinventaLre dos oyens et le
calcul de leur* coatt tire notamment parti des ezp6riencea r*alis&es dans le
cadre du projet Swissaid.  Compto tenu de Is volont& de uattre on place des
structures efficaces, Los bases de calcul des cotta de personnel prdvol.nt
des profile qualifies et expdrimnt6s.  Les siyon  sont pr6vus pour ue
plaification de quatre ans avec une antenn locale pour ue r*giou. Voir
Tableaux 1, 2, 3 et 4.



-4
%@
. ....t  ..
.in,0  uiau3li  l_  lbw 06 8iI_8I 
0033*0408*00  0181e100w   V
~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                     ..t e ..   ............. .-z  . le.........  t ... .,..e
.~~~~~~~~~~~ so.. it. .. .... ..... ... ..... .... ..... ............... ..
oft    oil  I Olt  4 Olt  0 Ott  0 06 0 of 0 06  ~~~~mtS li3 mEW so u,mis  I~
ts   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~81.                           ....   ..  161........    .0 6............................
0~ ~~ ~~~~~~~.w *  *     I1 1, I  CI   911,01 I tI"   I              ot-1  -    . l 0    Ol 0 oft *.l                                                          q  S tg *M   0 U010 SIW N-- SJ_sn">lIo
, . 1.       00.... . 0..                                                                                                           .. . .         0
.. . . . .. . . . . . ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .. ... ... ... ..... .. .                                                 . ...    .    .    ...
   $   "*    0101*       5400   5006  *rl6  *r0l            0006       0460004600                                                                          0/ r0110  800I,6IO 6o6f  *          001* 1_s n"w 1
m8    0         s o   so  t01   -   tt   Os   sw    iw      s CI    -  * ot         o*o,          ,o           10*0           oWa  o    o    w  - 1noow     ss nou sloammhgi nbs c
} o*10   80, 900    IK0  t1                   oIK   01            00)         0t   01* 018  o0             16  00       00   008  008  n0             IIV3                    I*0I~0l00I880$ 
0/ 63903MUNI IC U6808181900  I
z wo-~ *004    0 a   0$  80wo 1100                     181   1801   1601  1^101          000    gS1 000C000                     10   00*       008h t0   00   061*00114l  1894038
m 4J "1 s ol *q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ......... ....... ......... .. .....                                  .... .... .... . ..................... ......... .......................  ."4 ......................
WI    0         8    809  65001 mm            0ut  40    1 ,c  O46   .     40161 -q  ooo.    w.s0m   Om  o        6   Met8 0
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~"p IM 41-afd
s4, s00S3 .q  3  00034 *IIW@0 l0    11@100       0i *14"
am



1 ImWnoilitflm  musti
Ube. It. vsamia si to ~lan mutnotiems
*.u  tommiamI   nPin, oo. i..t  s.d  to.,  010  11k  tilltilt  tP   tilltotal  Oil IN   tilt  ilt  tO2  ml itgm  bt   t.ck     b    kcm
t.ffetmtD3U                   0110          2~~~~~~~~~~~~n   2mm     m    s"  0   2.l0.  c#t on n$I 20  10            -112o  tOl Me         10"2- MNM41i  late  ini                  0l Sie
2.ImttA                      Kit.           2   -   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ... ...  4..  .....    40..  -...  ...80.....5.. 2.. 8..   .       ....2..     ..t.......
4.401115IcMiS                                                  4.         . .           .4          '     0                        -      Mili                                     02     i       I        0 
UIESitI$P                                   mfitE          2      2 2         2        tO       Il      I    1  S         t   It 614   2II          27 23                       us i     0I  as         0      cmt
a. mlutU A                                  K2   2 2                          2   .     t.            20    2002002a.  20            -1100  tO2tOtS        O4tiOti4             27t      0   St          0     to
S.of   te iiinti                            KG I.             2      2         .        .    a to   St  tt.O  O     tisto   t           50 A       I 70a 2is                     is 20   IN  0  t        0    me
4024.                                       muM             2   2l2 nu2                  tO       4     tO   i.   t.  t.  to             4i   22   t2   2    22    2             I       0     C         0    viml
*                        muMn           I   I   I   I   I           to- 20                      3   3.  3024    tO to   t3 t    I03 4  22    22  03 C2 0224  Sit I                   0    Int
&   tnt  itIt   I                     swtm            I   a   2   2   2           tO    0  S      2S01   2.0  IO*  206  2.0,      510  sit 310   II  02 i tsit             int    it               0
731t94 2t                                   Kit             2   -      2 -   -   -S                     IIII                  I  I. 44  4.44   3ii  12 3I3I                      Is a -    oti           i   =
titoIM ElliOt2                                                             2 9           1 3  I    02241042240 42    0    -2010  22t2t0202t70ii20 St020S t.02MI
as.Ul AUt     .MS                            ilmit           2 2 2   2   2               to       0.40 3 So  to4  3ti o    tO6           MO-IC       O        R    3222222222I 01  011                    0      cm
7 Ititu                                      MOUlt           2   -se   2      - - -    4           t.1    i         4-2I                  8110             tO s     -             20S   ii    ts          a      cm
2.614of sCtUh                                   Wtl4                    4 le                i       1       I2 0    -2432.0      4          44.0710      -11*tr6 6 0t             .OntIl   O                      i
4UIWIL                                      RUS              2 ..                 ..               0   C-             --O   2 .                                   .2iOt I                                       M
UtUtuKA                                     m um 4oil                          4a-   20          0.1          222 0  a2020             tO    511e      0?7It     i132027    01    t                      01    WI
mhevOitumm,.                                mumt              4      4        4   - 2            112S    0222      20 22.0 220         tt     11i202731 l                       270       I    I         0 INtS
uttn                        mum                 2~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ 2  2        S   2  2 -  tO   0.40   tO     t,     to    -012222222322A M                 III    0   0              0   VPt
s-ttl~ tilt  Sit  It                                                                                    It? 4 4 4      0        0106  10  41 S410 "  0 Nh   s  2122atno2no41t10   2102cats
tmotuiinoi                  NCKGIU           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~ ~~2   -   2  2       4o  2.4    4         I6 I 1 -4.0  -  3-33    33  -CiiIS2 2S   it           t        0    9
5*1010l itCUUIls MStMu ISI4l SMI41O4T 40                             40             -             it   45 -  40-    00  2"0    020"                                -    -S  t  -   220     0              0      t
i.t.1t illm Maentl                                                                                          t 172  02  t42   021 0sS  520    M 102 1U02 20240072S202S0t  3           mu
C. Usolimi SCKUS
S    mmisummmA CPKI                        eemiKoE          2      2       .   4         tO         2     0   40 C 4003              -2      20 it        13 S                      I021   tiO C    Ci   0    no
I swm       iC lS                       PoliCtOm  2n             2         -   -       2  o       tO    20 20 2 0 220    -  10 a 02  t0    SO   52 0                             II   It    i             S     ia
3.tii  BiliO FM W9AIIUIUS                  PCAItS                     0     . . . s                 .124.0  121CII    III                    70. 2 A0   413 A2                       S      S     I0 2is
U tMttE/UtRit(som UIs                        M tiE                 2      22 - to                    a       0     0   2   000            20is  012022022220                      02 a     t 0             0
14    IttIifoMlIW                             MIK5                                          0       2t      42421 420.2f42a     -t. S"   iSU       itSlltlOtOO 32              -   tOO 0S3 
O.b-t.t.5 lies.  ttt                                                            02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .... ....  4.... .... ..t. .....04040            2
Sits  m l      ti2t2 lIt t.                                                                                                              -14    202oIOt ttt
t.t......00.214010                                                                                                                        -45...12.00224 0                         210
A.uso "Ol,eafAeh/owduS
A  tOliO   0 $016..  tt ..   m
A    Maeil  will
..t..u..in  -im
*i   1. mC  0 I040    wA                       [   em          2                            6          3    .660a66                         6        I  *       t"         I       it         1t              
IjI  moit  igutR  o                                               l           ?Otf2It                                       Itt40           6t13I1  , 3S11S0                         UI 01                    
S. lutCt swim                                 eEI                                                  .t                            .341    2.        S01"    A61                    1.               
is wstuoumts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;..... .. ......I.....  .. ....... .....                                                                      . 
SA- Fe"$ I file on It                            6 3 14 3   K 2 04.3 94 S                 4 0 4 46 4 0 4 0 4              M 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
. ... .. .  ...... ~ ~      ~        ~        '



EDUCATION REHABILLTAIION PROJECT
Table 13. SCHOOL NAINTEANACE
Detailed Cost Table
IPCfA Mlillhon)
Pkirmiters
Quantity                                                    Base Costs                                  Blasei Costs in $                  Pliy
..... .... .... ....   ... .... .... .... .  -- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---  ...   ..  - ---- --     - ---- --Co---.--F----- CoossFor     Gros      Tax Sw m r
Unit          l9ft   1990   1991  1992   1993   1994 Total-  Unit Cost  1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993 1994 Total Rate  Exchi    Rate                              Account
I. INVLSTMLNI COSIS
A. MAINTENANCE GUIDES               UNITi            400   400   400   400   400               2.000         0. 001   0 4  0 4   0 4   0 4   0 4        -   2 2    1 5    I      5        I 5   T5  5    -        6    0 1     I           0      PEQ
B. lOOt KITS                        UNIT             250    250   250    250         -          1.000        0 005    I S   I 5   I 5   1. 5            -   6 0   5 2   5 2   5 2   5 2            .        20 7    0 I        I           0     *PfQ
C. REGIONAL WORKSHOPS         PER PARYICIPANT           -   160    160    1S0    160              6 40       0.003       -  0 4  0 4  0 4  0. 4         - 1 6         - 1 4    1 4    I 4   I4           - 5 5         0       0           0        TR
0. SEMINARS /a                PER I'ANTICIPAN1               100    100    too    100      -      400         0.04           4. 0  4 0  4 0  4 0           10. 0          13 8   13 B   13 8 13 8           55.2       0       0           0        1R
E. FUNDS /b                       PER YEAR              - 200   200    100                        So50         0. 3      -60 0 60. 0 30.0         -       IS 100         206 8 206.8 103 4        -     -517  I   0 1   0 5                0        cm
Total INVESTMENT  COSTS                                                                                                   1 9663 652336 3   4 8              17589    6   228 7228 7125 3167                -60650
Total                                                                                                                       1 966 366. 336.3   4 8            175 8    6 7228.7 228 71253  16 7              -6050
/a ORGANIZED IN IFACIIER IRAINING COLLEGES
/b FOR SMAlL REPAIRS AND ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE TO MAX 500 CLASSROOMS
. -  -  -     -    .         .     . . .      . . . . .  . . .     . . . .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  . .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  . . .  . .  .     . . . .  . . .  . .  . .  . .    . .  . .  . .  . . .  .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  . .
June 27. 1988 18. 45
0 w
3-h



M
41
SURY OF SdCIIYIlIES Of VMONTURS iUtD *l1iNk EffERTSI
COLEidDIEd D'lACIYIIES KES vONT*IRES El E(PKRTS mm1iuI
--coir-s iceuns  uso
0RrAI311A110      LOCALIS*1I0NW   RESPUrSUILIlIESI        eI1Il1SI                          -         -         -           -- --------------------------
SIRn IURE         LOCMISAIINu   PE0 3S ILIIS             rdilreNs                Im  199  1912 1     9M 3 M  lOTL    U.C.      IDOAL        ISA    AFVP
aEIWRES RESl3IOI
----------------- -0MM            COOROUIAEU             Y9ONT1 IRE sENIN3  AFW    I    I    a    I    1    5    50,000    250,000    250,000
AiINIEIUM16ESIIOIIRE VOetTA13tE AFV              I   I    I   I    1    5    20,000    100,000                 200,000
SECRIDIIJE             C0n0T3C10                 I    I    I    I    I    5      5,000      25,000     25,000
6EADIEU                CNTA*1IuEL                2    2    2    2   2    l0        3500     15,000     35,000
CAAtfELft               MOI  KIUIEL              I    I    I    I    I    5       40        20,000     20,000
0                    0
JANrEM          CO(RAlTIIEUR           VMONLFAIRE SEIN ISFH    I    I    1                  3   50,000    150,000    150,000
AOtIIAIEUIIGESIIODIRE VOL01IIARE If              I I    I   1              3   20,u00       60,000              60,000
SECREIAIRE             CSTAACIUEL                I    I    1               3    5,000       15,000     15,000
600IE11                COUT*I*uEt                2    2    2               6       3500     21,00u     21,000
CtAFfEurt              CeNI0ACTIEL               I    I   1                3      4800      12,000     12,000
0                    0                                                                                                    .
AIECIE          C_09IE1UR              910NTAI*   SEVIE OfUP                     I    1    2    50,0Ou    100,o0o    100,W00
ANIMIEUIIEESIIOIAIRE VOLUTAIrE UFP                              I    1    2    20,000       40,000              40,000
SECMEIAIE              CeuIOACTIuE                              I    1    2      5,000      10,000     10,000
6*0011E                CUIR3CIUEl                               2    2     4      35        14,000     14,000
CljIFELS               COilN iltUEL                             I    1    2       4*0       8,000       8,000
SAHR             A determiner                                                                                    0
CE1tUUES ROILES                                                                                                                    0
----------------- amW"eu          rT8SSEUR1 (V            vitiBuI( E Uf           2    2    2    2    2    10   20,000    200,000               200,000
SECTILOS I El 2 BATISSEUIt t11         C03T1RCIDEL MAT.          2    2    2    2    2    10    20,000    200,000    200,000
CI4*IWFOEUS            CUJRKIUEL                 2    2    2    2   2    i        4*00     40,00       40,000
NJiuEUO         SIISSEUR 1V9I          VIRLDIdlURE AfP           2    2    2               6    20,00      120,000             120,000
PAIISSEUP tSDII       CEiOOCIR EL IIAT.               2    2               6    20,ou    12e,0vo    120,000
EtOIFFEURS             CDTRiACIUEL               2    2    2               6      4000     24,000      24,000
0
3s0E0           bilISESIu  10is1)      910TD0RE Af P9                           2   2      4    20,vOO      00,000              80,000
t0AllS'0U15     13*    CO!RACTUEL RtIl.                         2    2     4    20,oOO     80,000       0,o000
ChRdffEURS             COIROACIUEL                              2   2      4      4000      26,000     16,000
.. __ .. _ .  .  .  ................_............_.._ . ....__........_.__._._.__.__.............................._.__.._...... ____._..__ ......... __ _ .___._..___._.___._.___._.._._.___._........
SubiatjL!                              CO300IRIIEL              10   26  lb   I 16 lb      0               640,000    600,000        0
Sm  ot 11.                             VIILUIAIUES UVP           a    8    8    8   3 0           0       ,100,00     500,000  600,000
IONA* 60E1Ei3                                                   24   24  24  24   24   120               ,100,000  1,140,vw u   ,000                                                                                    -
z.z--.a- .... .:.:...,...           Sn.z.zz.......   .... ..........  .         Sn .. S........ .    .n.................,
2tt.-Ua-
:::g__:=::s:g    :::::::::::: ::a:::    ::::::$:zOll$ StU%F  ^----|;gXl ---X; SsXS  |g:;    ;:zz% A    ,,l gl$a3  l$zE s^z-- lSIl:gG                              < 



B:ANNEX3-3.WP (Chadl)                      77
ANNEX  3-3
Page 1 of 14
REPUBLIQUE DU TCEAD
PROJET DE RERABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
MATERIEL DIDACTIOUE ET AIDES PEDAGOGIQUES
I.   Cadre RenCral et diaRnostic
1.   Actuellement, l'un des traits dominants du systeme educatif tchadien est
la quasi inexistence de livres dans lea salles de classe. Les deux principales
causes en sont: (a) le coat 6lev6 des manuels disponibles sur le marche (un
manuel d'apprentissage de 'i lecture coate environ 2,000 FCFA) et (b) le fait
que ces manuels qui sont t;ff,1 importes ne sont disponibles qu'& la capitale.
Quant au Hinistare de l'Edti ation Nationale, il n'a pas les moyens de prendre
en charge - ne serait-ce que partiellement puisque 96Z de son budget est
consacre aux salaires - le coat des manuels et les previsions budgetaires ne
laissent pas pr6voir qu'il sera en mesure de le faire dans un proche avenir.
Dane le cadre du Troisieme Projet Banque Mondiale, l'achat et la distribution
de materiel didactique ont et6 finances mais cette dotation d'environ un jeu de
livres pour neuf elves (moyenne nationale) sera insuffisante en raison du
manque de fiabilite des statistiques scolaires disponibles au moment oi les
commandes ont et6 placees (les besoins quantitatifs ont ete sous-evalues).
2.   Les parents d'alaves sont, quant-a-eux, daji fortement sollicit6s.  A
travers les Associations de Parents d'Eleves (APE), ils contribuent a des
degres divers (variant avec la region) au d6veloppement de l'action 6ducative
en prenant en charge, en espece ou en nature, le salaire des maStres, en
participant & la construction de batiments et de mobiliers et a l'achat des
fournitures scolaires de base. Ils sont Agalement de plus en plus sollicites
par d'autres projets de developpement communautaire. Ces contraintes devront
Otre prises en compte dans la definition d'une politique de recouvrement des
coats des 'ivres scolaires. Dane le cadre du projet, les ecoles et les APE
seront chargees d'organiser la conservation des livres.
3.   CaPacitAs institutionnelles.  L'INSE (Institut National des Sciences de
l'Education) est l'organe du MEN charge de travailler sur la conception et
lAlaboration du materiel didactique; cet institut n'est actuellement pas en
mesure de remplir son mandat en raison du faible niveau de qualification de son
personnel (cf. Annesxe Aide-M6moire, mission d'identification d'aoat 1987). En
matiAre d'impression le Tchad posside trols imprimeries; deux appartiennent au
secteur public (ll'mprimerie de l'INSE et l'Imprimerie Nationale) et une
appartient au secteur privc (l'Imprimerie du Tchad); seule la troisiame est en
mesure de fournir un travail techniqoement valable, mais elle n'a pas
l'explrience de tirages importants.
4.   Hypothcses de travail.  La rehabilitation de l'enseignement  lementaire
tchadien, dAfinie comme la restauration des conditions minimales de
fonctionnement efficace de l'cole tchadienne, implique une-dotation en
materiel didactique et pAdagogique pour chacun des niveaux de l'enseignement



78
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 14
Al4mentaire. La rdalisation d'une telle action devra cependant tenir compte
des hypothases de travail suivantesu
(a) Les manuels choisis, tout en 4tant pddagogiquement fiables, doivent Be
situer dans la continuitd des manuels utilises auparavante;
(b) Les choix faits ne devront, en aucun cas, entraver lea dhcisions futures
en matiere de politique Oducative.
(c) La dbtation en manuels concernera principalement les disciplines de base:
l'enseignement du francais (qui semble *tre le problbme principal au
niveau de ldl6mentaire) et l'enseignement du calcul (notion de 'jeut de
manue).
(d)  Le matdriel distribue sera conserv .dans les dcoles afin d'en prolonger la
durde de vie (estimde dans des conditions normales de protection,
d'entretien et d'utilisation par les elaves & une moyenne de 2,5 ans);
(e)  Le choix des manuels s'est fait en tenant compte des critares
pddagogiques (mdthodes utilisdes, degre d'accessibilitd pour les
maltres), financiers (coftts relatifs) et plus gendralement de criteres
lids I des options de politique dducative;
(f) La distribution du matdriel didactique sera supportde par les Inspections
Principales (IP).
I1. Le Proiet
5.   Les donndes de la situation particuliere du Tchad ainsi que diffdrentes
dtudes sur les facteurs pouvant affecter le rendement interne d'un systhme
Oducatif conduisent & dire que la restauration de conditions minimales de
fonctionnement efficace de l'enseignement 6idmentaire tchadien passe par une
dotation de matdriel didactique. Il existe plusieures approches possibles du
probleme, allant de la conception/elaborationlproduction de manuels au Tchad a
l'achat hors du Tchad, en passant par l'adaptation et/ou l'impression sur
place des manuels retenus. Compte tenu des ressources humaines disponibles au
Tchad et de l'urgence de l'intervention, la solution choisie consiste &
acheter des ouvrages disponibles sur le marche et & les acheminer au Tchad.
Ce volet principal de cette composante du projet sera accompagne d'autres
activitds visant & prdparer une relance de l'dducation en favorisant le
renforcement dans certains domaines des institutions tchadiennes.
Les activitds de cet dldment du projet seront donct
(a) L'achat de manuels pour les differents niveaux de l'enseignement
dldmentaire;
(b) La distribution de ces manuels aux dcoles et I diffdrentes instances
assocides A l'enseignement dldmentaire (Ecoles Normales d'Instituteurs
(ENI), Centres Regionaux de Formation Continue (CRFC), Inspections...);



79
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 14
(c) L'achat et la distribution de fournitures scolaires;
(d)  Le suivi et l'evaluation p4riodiques de la distribution de ces manuels;
(e) La conception/fabrication de prototypes d'aides pedagogiques a faibles
cotts (dans les ENI et lea CRFC);
(f)  La production d'un guide p4dagogique par l'INSE visant & familiariser les
personnels de l'Aducation avec l'utilisation efficace du manuel de
lecture distribu4 dans le cadre du Troisihme Projet.
Le Ministere Frangais de la Cooperation (MFC) est pret a intervenir de facon a
compl4ter les apports du projet en fournissant (i) des manuels scolaires (pour
chaque manuel pay4 par le projet, le MFC fournirait un manuel parmi les titres
retenus par le projet); (ii) des fournitures scolaires pour les 4l&ves suivant
la mOme modalite exposee ci-dessus; (iii) 1'appui des experts francais sur
place dans les Bureaux d'Appui P4dagogique (BAP) pour la distribution des
livres et des faurnitures, et (iv) un petit fonds de documentation pour chaque
ecole des zones du projet.
III. Les Activit4s
6.   Dotation en manuels.  Dix-huit titres ont ete retenus (voir Tableau 1);
lls couvrent les besoins de base de toutes les classes de l'dlementaire, du
CP1 au CM2, ainsi quo des maltres et des instances engagdes dans la formation
et la supervision des enseignants. Les besoins en livres sont calcules sur la
base des effectifa de l'annee de distribution des livres (voir Tableau 2). Au
moment du demarrage de cette composante (1989-90), on estime a environ 475,000
le nombre d'e1lves qui frequenteront l'4cole 4l4mentaire, & 7,000 le nombre de
maltres et a 900 le nombre d'instances. Les manuels seront distribuOs aux
eleves, aux maltres et aux instances selon les modalitas suivantes:
(a)  Pour les GlOves.
An 2 du projet (1990-91):
- Lectures     1 pour 3 GlOves au CP, CE et au CM;
- Ecrituret    1 par eleve au CP;
- Grammaire:   1 pour 8 GlOves au CE, en prenant comme base de
c5lcul les effectifs du CEl uniquement;
I pour 3 Glves au CM, en prenant comme base de
calcul les effectifs du CM1 uniquement;
- Arabe:       1 pour 4 elaves au CP2;
1 pour 8 eleves au CE, en prenant comme base de
calcul les effectifs du CE1 uniquement;
- Calcul:      1 pour 3 eleves au CE et au CM, en prenant comme base
de calcul lee effectifs du CE1 et du CM1
respectivement.
An 3 et 4 du projet (1990-91 et 1991-92):



80
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 14
Le taux de remplacement annuel pour usure et perte est 4valud a 202
des livres fournis aux eleves en l'an 2 du projet. A ce taux a ete
ajout6e l'augmentation ou la baisse des effectifs scolaires d'une
ann4e & l'autre, multipliOe par les ratios livre/eleve enonces plus
haut.
(b) Pour les maitres.
An 2 du projet:
- Lecture et Calcul:       1 par maStre & tous les niveaux;.
- Ecriture:                1 par maitre au CP;
- Grammaire:               1 par maitre au CE et au CM;
- Arabe:                   1 pour 201 des maltres du CP2 et du CE1;
- Science:                 1 par maitre au CE;
- Guide Pddagogique:       1 par maitre au CE et au CM.
An 3 et 4 du projet:
Le taux de remplacement annuel des livres dans ce cas, est evalue I
1OZ de la quantite de livres pr6vue pour les maStres en l'an 2 du
projet. A ceci est ajoutee & nouveau la difference entre le nombre
de maitres d'une annee & l'autre. L'effectif des maitres a ete
calcul4 sur la base d'un ratio maltreleleve de 1:60 (voir Tableau 2).
(c) Pour les instances. Ce sont:
- Lee 5 ENI                s 300 soit 60 par ENI;
- Lee 20 CRFC              : 400 soit 20 par CRFC;
- Les 41 Inspections de
l'Enseignement Elemen-
taire (IEE)              s 164 soit 4 par IEE;
- L'INSE                   : 16;
- Le MEN                   s 20 pour les directions concernees.
TOTAL:                       900 manuels en l'an 2 du projet.
An 3 et 4 du projet:
On a prevu un ratio de remplacement des livres de 1/6 des quantites
commandees en l'an 2, soit 150 manuels.
Le taux de remplacement annuel pour destruction et perte qui a ete d'environ
40Z pour les livres r6cemment fournis, est plus bas dans le cadre de ce projet
(20Z pour les eleves et 10? pour les maitres) a cause de meilleures conditions
de stockage et de suivi.
7.   I1 est cependant important de justifier certains choix.  Vu l'urgence de
l'intervention et l'objectif a court terme de restauration des conditions
minimales de fonctionnement efficace des 6coles, le processus de choix des
manuels a 4t4 simple et rapide; la Commission du Ministere Tchadien de
VEducation Nationals chargee de preparer le aossier mMat4riel didactique'
pour ce projet a joue le rOle de commission du livre (organe qui n'sxiste pas
en tant que tel au Tchad, cette fonction revenant & l'INSE, dont le Directeur



81
ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 14
prisidait la dite Commission). Ses criteres detaillis de selection figurent
dans le dossier du projet.
8.   Calendrier.  Une commande portant sur les besoins pour toute la durne du
projet serait placie durant la premibre annee du projet (ce qui permettrait
d'abaisser sensiblement les coats). Les manuels provenant de cette commande
seraient disponibles pour la rentree 1989, clest-&-dire pendant la deuxieme
annee du projet. Les manuels couvrant les besoins pour les annees trois et
quatre du projet seraient expidiis durant le premier semestre des annees 1990
et 1991 respectivement et ce afin d'eviter le stockage au Tchad de la totalit6
des manuels (simplification de la gestion du projet). Ce critire devra donc
apparaltre explicitement dans les appels d'offre.
9. Fournitures Scolaires. La rehabilitation implique aussi une amilioration
des conditions et des situations d'apprentissage pour le plus grand nombre
possible d'elaves. Dans cette perspective il ne suffit pas seulement
d'assurer une dotation en manuels; il faut, de plus, s'assurer de la
disponibilite de certaines fournitures de base. II s'agira donc de determiner
ce qui constitue le minimum souhaitable pour chaque niveau. La solution
retenue consist. & financer pour les annees 2, 3 et 4 du projet et en terwi.t
compte des differences d'effectifs d'une annee a l'autre (i) des ardoises pour
tous lee ilives du CP; (ii) des jeux de fournitures scolaires & distribuer a un
tiers des eleves du CE et du CM, lea criteres d'eligibilite etant fonction de
la situation economique de '1l6ve, de la region oCL celui-ci se trouve et de la
situation de l'APE concernde; et (iii) des fournitures scolaires pour la classe
et pour les maltres. Les dotations (ii) et (iii) se decomposent comme suit:
(ii) Jeu de fournitures pour les elaves:
- 2 cahiers (200 pages)
- 3 crayons noirs
-1 gome
- 1 stylo-bille
(iii)     Foumnitures your la classes
- Craie blanches    40 par ecole par an pour 1 300 ecoles;
- Crayons noirst    2 par maStre au CP et au CE1 et 6 par maStre au
CE2 et au CM chaque annee;
- Cahiers
(200 pages)  s    4 par maitre (2 cahiers de textes et 2 cahiers de
preparation) par an;
- Rigles
graduees      s    1 pour 3 elaves au CP2, CE et CM en l'an 2 du
projet et 202 de la quantite commandee en l'an 2
plus 1/3 de la diffirence des effectifs scolaires
pour les annees 3 et 4 du projet;
- Compas        s    1 pour 3 dlaves au CE2 et au C1 en l'an 2 du
projet et 20? de la quantit6 comnandee en l'an 2
plus 1/3 de la difference des effectifs scolaires
pour lea annees 3 et 4 du projet;



82
ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 14
- Stylo-bille
(rouge et bleu)s   6 par maitre au CP et au CE1, 12 par mattre au
CE2 et 18 par maltre au CM chaque anndc.
10.  Conservation du mat6riel.  En p1 a de l'usure occasionne. par
l'utilisation courante en salle de classe, les livres sont menaces par leg
conditions climatiques (fortes pluies pendant la saison) et par lea insectes;
de plus, le style architectural des ecoles ne permet pas de proteger les
livres contre le vol. Dans le but de prolonger la durGe de vie des ouvrages
achetes dans le cadre du projet, ceux-ci seront gardes dans des cantines
metalliques. Le projet financera l'achat de 4,000 cantines qui serviront au
transport et au stockage dans lea Gcoles des ouvrages et des fournitures
scolaires d'usage collectif. Lea estimations de coats sont bas4es our co qui
a #t6 fait dans le cadre du troisilme projet.
11. Distribution du matdriel et des fournitures scolaires. La distribution du
matdriel didactique se fera via les IP en collaboration avec lea CRFC; lea
recomnandations concernant les reseaux de distribution, le stockage et le
contrOle du materiel seront faites dans le cadre de l'Ctude sur la
distribution du matdriel didactique (cf. parag. 12 ci-dessous).
12.  Etudes sur la distribution du mat6riel didactipue. L'ezecution de
l'ClCment materiel didactique impliquera la capacite de distribuer
syst6matiquement plusiours dizaines de milliers d'ouvrages et une grande
quantit6 de fournitures scolaires sur une partie importante du territoire
tchadien et ce, dans un temps relativement court, de mani&re I pouvoir
respecter lee exigences du calendrier scolaire. Lea modalites de distribution
du materiel finance par le Troisilme Projet ont ete arrOties en urgence; en
outre, les informations actuellement disponibles ne permettent pas de faire le
bilan de cette opiration et de tirer les renseignements utiles I la conception
d'un systime de distribution fiable quant-aux circuits et aus ddlais et
fonctionnant en phase avec d'autres elements de ce quatri&me projet (en
particulier la construction).  Il a donc ete convenu de rdaliser une Ctude.
13.  Termes de reference de l'Etude.  Objets  L'etude envisagee comporte trois
volets; le premier est l'evaluation sur le terrain de la distribution et de
l'utilisation des manuels et des fournitures scolaires finances par le
troisi$mo projet Banque Mondiale; le second concerne la conception d'un plan
de distribution et de controle du matEriel qui sera fourni dans le cadre de ce
quatrilme projet; le troisibme sera la formulation d'une politique de
recouvrement des cofts des livres.
14.1   Volot 1. Dans son premier volet l'Ctude vise I degagers
(a)  Pour chaque Inspection de l'Enseignement Elementaire (IEE) la renartition
rCelle des livres et des fournitures par ecole. I1 faudra notamment faire
ressortir les critares utiliadse pour l'attribution des quotas de livres et
de fournitures aux diffirentes ecoles;



83
ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 14
(b) Les conditions d'utilisation des manuels : quel est le ratio
livre/eleves pour chaque discipline et chaque niveau? Comment les livres
sont-ils conserves par les directeurs. en particulier, quel usage a-t-on
fait des cantines dans les ecoles qui en ont reques? Comment les manuels
sont-ils utilishs par les maltres? S'ils sont distribues aux eleves,
quelle est la frdquence hebdomadaire d'utilisation? Quel est le temps
moyen pris pour distribuer les livres dans la salle de classe? Pour co
volet il faudra distinguer la situation des *coles situ4es en milieu
urbain de celles situdes en milieu rural. I1 faudra aussi s'int4resser &
l'4tat des manuels au moment de l'4tude, determiner Le taux de perte et de
destruction et les causes principales de ces degradations. Un nombre
reduit d'Etudes de cas pourrait *tre utile pour rhpondre & ces questions.
(c) Une dvaluation du systeme de distribution. Pour chaque Prefecture,
dtterminer comment s'est fait le transport du mat4riel du niveau central
jusqu'au l'4cole. Quels ont ete les coats reels? Quels out ete les
transporteurs utilises (Agences dtaide, firmes comnerciales?)? Combien de
temps a dure La distribution? Quels ont 4t4 les instruments de contrOle
des stocks utilises I chaque etape (du niveau central au niveau
prdfectoral. du niveau prefectoral au niveau des Inspections, des
Inspections aux ecoles)? Comment sont geres les stocks? Quelles
incidences la distribution de fournitures a-t-elle eu our les
contributions des APE?
14.2 Volet 2. A partir des informations obtenues dans le cadre du
premier volet de l'4tude, le second volet consisterait Is
(a) Concevoir un reseau de distribution de matAriel didactique et de
fournitures scolaires qui prendrait appui sur les structures rGgionales
d'ex6cution de 1l'61ment infrastructure de ce projet ainti que sur les
structures locales du MEN (Inspection, CRFC).
(b) Concevoir des mecanismes de gestion et des instruments simples de
contr6le et de gestion & chacune des etapes de la distribution (y compris
l'etape finales l'ecole). Ces instruments devront permettre l'Gvaluation
de l'utilisation des livres durant le ddroulement du projet et des
estimations plus prdcises quant-aux pertes et A la destruction des livres.
(c) Concevoir, en matibre de transport, des propositions qui minimisent les
coats en tenant compte des contraintes imposees par le calendrier
scolaire et lee conditions climatiques.
14.3 Volet 3. Dana le cadre des volets 1 et 2, il s'agirait d'4valuer
les capacitAs des parents d'4l1ves et/ou lee APE a recouvrir une partie des
coQts des livres afin d'augmenter la duree de vie des livres et,
eventuellement, les chances dtun renouvellement du stock des livres
disponibles. Ce volet devrait d4boucher sur des propositions en vue d'un
m6canisme de recouvrement des coOts (location ou vente) qui pourrait Otre
exp4rimentd dans certaines localitds lors de la distribution des livres, en
l'an deux du Projet.



84
ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 14
Personnel :   Un specialiste consultant appuy4 par des fonctionnaires MEN, en
particulier la Direction de l'Enseignement Elementaire (DEE).
Durde     :   Deux mois.
14. Termes de r4f4rence du consultant. Voir dossier du projet; activites
financees par le FPP.
15. Suivi/Evaluation de la distribution du mat4riel didactiaue et des
fournitures scolaires. Cette activite du projet a pour but de permettre
l'ajustement des opErations pendant l'exEcution du projet et serait rEalis4e
par la DEE en collaboration avec la Direction Nationale des Projets Education
(DNPE). Durant les deuxieme et troisieme ann6es du projet, il s'agirait
d'appliquer au projet en cours les points Enum4r4s au paragraphe 14. La
premiere distribution aura lieu en novembre et decembre 1989 (PYZ) et la
deusieme en d6cembre 1990 et janvier 1991 (PY3). Elles fourniront chacune les
bases pour la programation des activites concernant l'annde suivante.
16. Conception/fabrication d'aides DEdaEofiaues & faibles coUts. Le but de
cette activite est d'appuyer et de permettre le developpement d'une action qui
est mende & petite echelle dans deux institutions tchadiennes: l'INSE et
l'Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS).  L'activitd consisterait a (i) faire dans un
premi-er temps l'inventaire des aides pedagogiques & faibles coats concues en
Afrique; (ii) adapter et experimenter au Tchad des prototypes de ce matEriel et
(iii) en assurer la diffusion dans le cadre de la formation des maltres. La
realisation de (i) peut se faire avec le Bureau Regional pour l'Education et le
Developpement en Afrique (BREDA); deux techniciens du Tchad pouvant y sejourner
pendant un mois. Lea volets (ii) et (iii) seront realises aux Tchad.
17. Guide pedaioziaue your lecture au CP. Le materiel destine I
l'apprentissage de la lecture au CP, tout en etant pedagogiquement adapte I la
rdalite de 1'ecole tchadienne east cependant nouveau dans le paysage educatif.
I1 esat donc nEcessaire de faciliter la fam.liarisation de diffdrentes instances
pEdagogiques avec ce materiel. Cette activitd vise: (a) & repirer par
l'observation de classes le* principaux problhmes rencontrds par les maltres et
(b) I produire des fiches pddagogiques sur l'utilisation des livres de lecture,
destinees au personnel d'encadrement. Elle se deroulera pendant la premiere
annee du projet et sera rdalisde par 1'INSE. Un coUt forfaitaire de 600,000
FCFA est prevu.
IV. Execution du projet
18. Organisation. L'execution de l'element "MatEriel didactique' du projet
sera du ressort de la DNPE pour tout ce qui concerne la passation des marches
et l'acheminement vers lee Inspections Principales. La distribution sera
assurge par les Inspections. LEdtude presentee au paragraphe 14 ci-dessus
permettra de definir lea procedures de distribution et de contrOle. A partir
de la dewucime annde du projet, lea donnees fournies par le Suivi/Evaluation
seront integrees dans la planification des activites.



85
ANNEX 3-3
Page 9 of 14
19.  Chronogramme d'activitis.  Voir Tableau 5.
20. Avantages et Risques. La r4alisation des activit6s pr4vues pour
l4uliment materiel didactique devrait amener tme amelioration de l'efficacite
interne du systeme dducatif tchadien, les manuels compensant le manque de
formation des maitres et donnant ausx leves de meilleures conditions
d'apprentissage.
21. Les risques encourus concernents (a) la conservation du materiel
distribue. Si celui-ci n'est pas ad4quatement conserve, tous les calculs
effectues bas6s sur une duree de vie moyenne de deux &ns et demie, sont nuls.
L'Etude prealable exdcut6e sous le FPP devrait aussi uugg4rer des mesures
visant & diminuer le taux de perte et destruction estime actuellement & 40X;
(b) le risque de perte durant l'acheminement vers les ecoles. Un mayen de
minimiser ce risque serait de demander aux editeurs de priparer des paquets
correspondant aux besoins d'une 4cole et d'engager la responsabilit6 de la
firme esx6cutant le contrat jusqu'A la Livraison aux inspections.
22. Condition. La condition essentielle pour la mise en oeuvre de cet
element du projet est 1Vexscution de 1' etude permettant d'une part, d' valuer
co qui a ete accompli dans it cadre du troisifme projet et d'autre part, de
recoumander des procEdures pour la miss en oeuvre do ce quatribmse projet.



86
ANNEX 3-3
Page 10 of 14
LISTE DES MANUELS DISTRIBUES
TITRE                                                              CLASSE
1. J'apprends A lire                                               cP1
2.  J'apprends A ecrire                                            CP1
3.  J'apprends & lire                                              CP2
4. J'apprends A 6crire                                             CP2
5. Al girra'a al if.                                               CP2
6. L'cole africaitne                                               CEi
7. L'4cole africaine                                               CE2
6. Grammaire pratique                                              CEI et CE2
9. Guide pdagogique                                               CE
10 Le calcul au quotidien                                          CEI et CE2
11. Sciences d'observation                                         C5E  et CE2
12. Al gira'a ifrig.                                               CE
13. L'icole Africaine                                              CHI
14. L'6cole Africaine                                             CH2
15. Le calcul au quotidien                                         CMI et CM2
16. Gramaire pratique                                              CM1 et CM2
17. Guide pedagogique                                              CM
18. Calcul CP                                                      CP



ANNEX 3-3
Page 11 of 14
87
B:3-3.WK1 (Chadl)
TABLEAU 2
EVOLUTION DES EFFECTIFS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE POUR LES ANNEES DU PROJET
PY         ANNEE    cP1       CP2       CEI         CE2        CUi       CM2        TOTAL   GROWTH RATE
2        1989/90   139,077   96,938      87,179     65,686   48,191      88,030     474,974    10.28X
8        1990/91   144,118   98,769      91,388     73,750   69,109      47,982      615,116    8.46X
4        1991/92   188,488  110,443      95,086      81,886  68,789      59,086      553,222     7.40X
Source;  Estimations de  a mission.
EVOLUTION DU PERSONNEL ENSEIGNANT POUR LES ANNEES DU PROJET
(Base Ratio maltre/el-ve do 1:60).
PY         ANNEE    CP1       CP2       CEI         CE2       CU1       CU2        TOTAL
2        1989/90     2,888    1,599       1,458       1,094     808         634       7,916
a        1990/91     2,402    1,646       1,528       1,229     06S         80       8,585
4        1991/92     2,808    1,841       1,684       1,356    1,146        985       9,220
Source:  Etimatlons de Is mission.



88                             Page 12 of1
TABLAUK S3.
sUANrME DE tWM A DAISTRIUIER Er Cwjrs
t            ANN .EEW PROJEr         TOTAL    TOTAL (1)              cour    Cour TOTAL
PAR                         IINITAINE      EN
Pm2     PY3      PY4   CaTwe RIt FCIA                               ('000)
FCFA
LE:.CP                                            68,799                e80  67,424.00
slaves    48,.69  10.712   7.453      64.825
mitre.    2.3sa      302      139      2,77s
Instances    900     180     0SO       1,200
BR.CP1                                           480,821                280 107,728.00
*livee   139,977 144.118  138,488    422,578
mitre.    2,.38    2,402   2.308       7.043
Idstancm    9(^      1SO      1SO      1,200
Lu.CP2                                            82.966 1e100  58,800.00
*1olve    31.976   7.341   10.287     49.608
mitre.    1.S8       207      884      2.160
Inotanc    900      180      180     1200
S.CP2                                            311,481                268  82,847.80
oliv*I    98,9s   98e769  110.448    808.14        '
mitr       1.89   1,646    1.641       8.06S
In.tonce.    900     180      180      1,200
AMR.C2                                            3s.686                780  29,178.00
slave.    28.988   S,8S0   7,71S      87,204
maItre.      820      41       71        432
ntmncu       900   _ 180      1SO      1,200
Lt.CEl                                            46u,77               1,194  85,401.60
aIve.s   29.060   7.215   7.028       43.803
mitre      1.438     218      206       1,078
intance.    900 e    10       180      1.200
LEC.CE2                                           se.659               1,210  46,827.00
olive.    21.888   7,078   6.928      88.884
mitre.    1.094      244      287       1.878
Instance.    900     180      1SO      1.200
AI4t.CE                                           20.888               1.700  as.,a0.00
slave.    10,697   2.706   2.638       16.288
mItre      2.647     460      448      8,480
In-tance.    900     1SO      1SO      1,200
CIJI.PE.CE                                         4,e60               2.280   10,876.00
aIlove.        0       0        0          0
-aitr.     2.847     460      448      8.480
instance.    900     18o     1SO       1.200
CALOL CE                                          47,982               1,24S  89,664.00
slave.    29,060   7.215   7.028      48.808
_aItre.    2,847     460      448      8 480
inotances    900     1S0      1SO      1.200
SCIlW.CE                                           4,650               2,280  10,878.00
glove.        0        0       0           0
M .tr      2,647     460      44s      8.450
Instances    900     18O     1S0       1.200
ARAB.CE                                           17.818              1,000  17.900.00
olov-     10,897   2,706   2,688       16,238
_aitre       291      48       41        878
;nstance.    900     180      1S0      1.200
LEC.OI1                                           31.862               1.341  42,77. 90
,live.    16,064   6.882   6.489      29,355
maitroo      808     262      242      1,307
instances    900     10       10       1.200
LEC.042                                          o27078                1,80S  40,785.50
slaves    12,677   8.888    6 27      24.768
maitre.      684     229      248      1.112
Instances    900     180      1O       1,200
CALcuL 04                                         32,974               1,584  81.282.00
*le-ve    16.064   6.882   6,439      29.355
maitres    1,437     492      490      2.419
Instance.    900     1S0      1S0      1,200
CRAH.04                                           82,974              1,700  86,100.00
lelve.    16,084   6,852   6,49      29,388
maitre.    1,487     492      490      2,419
in-tance.    900     180      180      1,200
OUI.PE.04                                          8,619              2.500   9,280.00
aolve.         0       0        0          0
_mitre.    1,487     492      490      2,419
tin-tnee.    900     18       1SO      1,200
CAL.OL CP                                          6,188               1,000   6.200.00
lolve.         0       0        0          0
a;Itre.    8,932      Mo      494      4,e93
Instance.    900     18o      1        1,200
TOTAL    848,291 a3.1.84  888,809   1,218,484   1,218,484          2s,792.00 7M8,089.80
(1) Le calcyl d"  cou. eat felt apr. s voir arrondi Is totl a Ic contaene suorieuro.



89                                     ANNEX  3-3
Page 13 of 14
TABLEAU 4.
U      lTU6 SCOtAIR
FaU4N1.   PY        Pm       PY4   TOrAL (8)               C8ur   cOr TOTAL
ULIi.  EN ('00o)
FCFA
Ardolosi   235.910 242.887  246,426    727.72                 100  72,7W.00
Jag: do
Feureit.  79.688   90.143  101,432    271,864               1,000 271,900.1 0
Crayons   25.958  29.207   32.392      87.576                  20   1,782.00
(I1)
Roglem   111,6e6  34.333  21,447    167.447                   100  16,780.00
(2)
Com--.    80,629   19.777   13.429     63.683                 100   8,390.00
(3)
CahIer.   31,668   34,341   368.82    102.886                 200  20,580.00
(4)
Styjlo,   71.308  60.305  89,036    240.649                    80  12,035.00
(1)
Crate     66,000  e6,000   66,000    198.000                  S00  99,000.00
(bel too)
TOTAL                                                              803,187.00
(1) Pour lea maiter-.
(2) Usag c lleetif; I pour 3 a partir du CP2.
(3) Usage col octif; 1 pour 3 a partir du CE2.
(4) Pour les maitro.; 2 cahoera do preparstion at 2 cahiers de testes pour to class.
(8) L. catlul Jow cout, oet fait apree *vo;r .rrondi lo total a le containe superieure.



JiNEX 3- 3
90                                                                       pge. 14 Of 14
TAILEAU 5.
TAIONATIO CLLE DES ACTIVYES SUR LA E9E DU FRJET
IERE  A1E   - 1W8-69             2EMiE AMEE - 1983-90             3EE AWEE  - 1990-91    DEME ANI#    - 1491-92                  O
;NO. OUVATICN ESACTIVrTES   RELS-A8E   OUqEE  SOND JPNANJJASONDJF NANJ JASONDJF1AN J JASONO JFNANJJAt
O----- __________,._____ ------------              __________:-         __-_--- ------- -----_-_--_-_-.------------ ---------            _---------------------      _____.__________________________--
:1.     W.6rbu6o.it    on             .1       3:                                                                                       3a          a::           3                                   t:     : : :  t::
41% four nitur.                                CN.E         *1O. : : -                                                      :    .                      : - -:-:                                        I :    I O
--   -----_    .__________ ---_____.:.-_--- -                                       _-----_-------------- - ----- ----  -                _--------- -----_-----_________________________----------------  -       ___
2   Oistributic,/ Mue l,                                           :               ::: 3 :::::: :3                      a:.:O:: a:: ::  .::  :..                                                             :.O
Fourniture                                       CRFt.           10 oi-                                                                                                                           O O        O I I           
-------------_____________-______-_-__-_---------- --- ----- ------ _-------------_----------_--------_-_---_________________________________---------
:3.    Suivi/Evslvstion  do  to                       DEE/t                                                                                                                                                      t: O    t
I    iibuti*                                    NE    : *                    i-::::::::::::::   O: :  :  :: :                                                                                             :
IC  Etud sur  tibitio                            Consultant/   2 -is :I::::::: :                                            ::::::: :::::                                                   ::IIO, .
I   Poj at T3i &6OEE                                             PPF  I::::::::::::::::::::::: :    : 3                                               3          3 
:                                           --- - - -- - -  - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -           - - - - -- - - - -        ------  - -_- _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
S3  Etude ur vmtoi;                                                    I mi-l ::::: :: ::
Lectur. CP                                      ME    mP                     :::::: :::                                              ::::::P::::::::
-- - - - - - - - -- - --:- - -                  -- - - -- - -        -----------__ -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -    -- -- -- - -- --                                     -
:0.    Etud. Sur Aides P.i.gciqu..:    INSE/EN6S                      29  -itS     .     *- *3*:*3*:*-*-*               *:*                    *    3  *3*                               : : : : : : : : :: :
, ucAlloh Itn"AI     101 Pic LCI
"O"       3333.33i I3o H&C111U
33s3a3.1d Wit: 3.333
"CIA 110t ,.o3
333                           b33 303,333                             Sal. CoIls :.39                 P33p
'''' ''''''''''''''''''''''''' '' ibl. - -  ..................  ,, , ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  ...........     .     ..........    .... . Ph,,,  o    o         
33 9U9Mu13363333361,31339                                                           333433336333.         .     .     .     .3..... .3         f3  Cnl is  3I3ee3
nts t19333333131i-, 19 4                                                                  3933 S I s                              9  1,~  '~ l                             '':I0 IxI
I  fil   3C  I TMIN9       KS              -              -    -           -        s.S              .S    SO - .     3246    360322933b33 I                                   t     I         *     t:l
110. 111 cl,I 91333931.3 2   3I 3     412                                                         I                 3338    238 33 39 63 3 11     3 I . .        33 -  ,    33    3         0     [II
C  Sti lCI L lt s                                                                          "w i     $                               ISO 9  73   1    -    - s     gS1      o 1                      "I
il. tcmllXul iessISINCt                                                                      e X*         4         2S9 i    2621 la  It I  11 i II sit ii        -,1 3      I                      li
L333333333(dS31L33~33l33.                             .33 ..... ... . . .. .... .... ..... ........... . . . ..... .. .. .
fatal      l923s                                                                            2 3046 33s 336 34  3 4        163 3  .12  33  3    3393 2 316330         2.530 $
das 22. 31,43 49



91
ANNEX 3-4
Page ; of a1
UEPUBLIOUK DU CMAD
PROJET DE REHAbILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
LI DPLOPPEMENT DE LA FORMATION DE LA SUPERVISION
ET DE L'ENCADRUMENT DES ENSEIGNANTS
I. La Drobldmaticue de la formation dans une perspective de
r4habilitation du sestime tchadien
1.        La formation des mattres est une composante fondamentale de
l'entreprise de r6habilitation du systeme educatif tchadien car le maintien,
voire la croissance du systeme, est base our l'e'istence d'un grand nombre
(environ 402) de maltres non formes (voir Anneze 2-6). Los analyses et les
propositions avancees en matiure de formation s'appuient sur les hypothises
de travail suivantes:
a)   La valorisation des initiatives 'ipontan4es des acteurs de base:
maltres suppleants, Association de parents d'dllves (APE),
conseillars pddagogiques et animateurs de centres de formation
continue; dans cette optique, priorit6 a 6t# donnee & la
formation des nsuppleants recrutes par lee APEs;
b)   Tout en jetant les bases du developpement future du systeme
educatif, dans le cadre de la rehabilitation, l'accent est mis
sur le court terme. Lee actions entreprises devront se realiser
pendant la duree du projet et avoir une incidence rapide sur
l'acte Oducatif. Ces actions, en outre, no devront pas
hypothequer le long et le'moyen termes;
c)   Le nombre de maltres & former sera limitd a environ 1.750 pendant
la durne du projet, En effet, une formation rentable' sera une
formation qai s'adressera & des mattres ayant dEja eu une
expGrience minimale de la salle de classe, qui no saurait etre
inferieure I doux ans. Une telle approche permettra aussi de
rester dans lee limites des capacitis d'encadrement.
d)   La n6cessit6 d'une part de ddvelopper l'appareil de formation et,
d'autre part, d'ameliorer la formation proprement dite, la
prioriti dtant dans une premier temps accordie au
ddveloppement/renforcement de l'appareil.
e)   L'ensemble de l'appareil de formation se renforce au cours du
ddroulement des activitds, chaque niveau so formant en apprenant
a former le niveau immudiatement inf6rieur;
f)   La production de documents simplement dcrits, destines aux
formateurs intervenant aux differents niveaux est capitale pour
la reussite des activitis de formation.



92
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 2 1
II. Cadre a4n4ral et diatnostic
Les personnels et structures assurant une fonction de formation
2.        Lea maltres.  Le Tchad compte & l'heure actuelle environ 5.600
maltres travaillant dans l'enseignement 6lementaire. De ceux-l& environ
2.500 (moyenne de differentes statistiques) constituent la categorie des
maltres dits "suppldants*. Produits des 4v&nements qu'a connus la Tchad de
1979 & 1982, lee "suppl4ants' repr6sentent l'une des expressions de la
solidaritO et de la spontaneite d'organisations communautaires dans le
domaine de l'dducation. Recrutes par les communaut4s le plus souvent
organisses en Associations de parents d'elaves (APE), ces mattres sont en
majorit6 pay4s par celles-ci en esp&ces ou en nature selon les localites.
La fonction publique avait pr4vu la prise en charge de 753 suppleants en
1986/87 a raison de 9.000 FCFA par mois pendant 9 mois, ce nui reprhsente
environ 56Z du salaire d'un moniteur titulaire du 2ame 4chelon); cependant,
selon les informations fournies par le service du personnel, seulement 4-20
d'entre eux le seraient actuellement.
3.        Les maltres appartenant & la fonction publique sont r4partis en
cinq grades: instituteur, instituteur-adjoint, moniteur superieur, moniteur
titulaire et moniteur brevet#. Instituteurs et instituteurs adjoints ont
suivi une formation en hcole normale alors que les moniteurs out ete
recrutes sur concours professionnels et ont eu principalement une formation
sur le tas. Actuellement environ 15Z des places dans les ENI sont r6servdes
aux moniteurs sup6rieurs qu$ y entrent sur concours. En ce qui concerne la
structure d'Age des maStres de la fonction publique, on peut faire remarquer
qu'environ 37Z de ceux-ci ont 40 ans ou plus (Tableau 1).
4.        Du point de vue qualitatif, si lee instituteurs et les moniteurs
ont recu, a des degres divers, une formation a la fonction enseignante, il
n'en est pas de mOme pour les maStres Isuppl6ants. Ce groupe se
caracterise par:
-    l'hdtdrogdndit4 de la formation acaddmique de ses membres.
Environ 1O d'entre eux ont le BEPC et parfois quelques annees
d'enseignement secondaire de plus; la plus grande partie a le
quatre ans; enfin, pour une proportion jug6e minoritaire, le
niveau d'dtudes se situe en-dessous du CEP;
-    un relivement g4n4ral de leur niveau suite & la crise d'emploi a
neaumoins ete ddcide, ce qui a eu pour effet d'encourager des
sortants de l'enseignement secondaire, & des niveaux de plus en
plus eleves, a s'orienter vers des postes de maltres suppleants.
Par ailleurs, il y a une plus grande mobilit4 parmi les
suppleants oi lVon observe que le Kanem recrute des suppleants
originaire du Sud;



93
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 Of 21
F - l'absence de toute formation pddagogique et l'inexistence d'appui
d'agents d'encadrement et de supervision;
-    un recrutement beaucoup plus base sur l'harmonie avec les valeurs
de la communauth et la disponibilite que sur la qualification et
la comp4tence.
5.        L'encadremer,t et la supervision.  Les maltres de l'enseignement
4l4mentaire sont encadres et/ou supervises par les directeurs d'ecoles, les
animateurs des 'centres r4gionaux de formation continue' (CRFC), les
conseillers p4dagogiques et les inspecteurs de l'enseignement 4l4mentaire
(d4tails dans le dossier du projet).
Le cadre institutionnel de la formation
6.        Differents organes interviennent dans le domaine de la formation
des maltres; ce sont: les 5 Ecole6 normales d'instituteurs (ENI) chargdes
d'assurer la formation initiale des instituteurs, les 20 Centres rigionaux
de formation continue (CRFC) et les 34 Inspections de l'enseignement
|l4mentaire (IEE), les Bureaux d'appui pedagogique (BAP) qui regroupent 3 ou
4 Ecoles, et l'Ecole normale sup4rieure (ENS)(ddtAils dans le dossier du
projet). Toute ces institutions, a l'exception des IEE, sont beneficiaires
de l'assistance de la Coop4ration Frangaise en forme, surtout, d'assistance
technique.
7.        Formation et carriere.  Les reglements en vigueur dans la
fonction publique tchadienne sont tras stricts en matiere d'acces ou de
promotion dans la carribre enseignante. En aucun cas la formation continue
ne permet un changement dans le statut de l'enseignant.  Les protrammes de
formation continue n'ont donc aucune incidence imi6diate et structurelle sur
ie budget de la fonction vubligue.
Les schemas de formation
8.        La formation initiale des maltres tchadiens comporte formellement
trois volets: (i) un compl4ment de formation academique dans les
disciplines de base, (ii) une formation dans le domaine p4dagcgique et (iii)
un entralnement a la conduite de la classe. Cependant, pour de multiples
raisons tenant aussi bien aux conditions materielles qu'& la facon de
concevoir la formation des maltres, l'accent est beaucoup plus mis sur ce
qui est livresque et thdorique que sur ce qui peut assurer une v4ritable
formation professionnelle. Les complements de formation acad4mique sont
beaucoup plus proches des programmes du secondaire classique. la formation
pedagogique fait une place enorme & la psychologie ou I la sociologie plutOt
qu'a la didactique des disciplines at la formation pratique, faute de
personnel d'encadrement disponible et qualifi4 et en l'absence de veritables
ecoles d'application, n'a pas la portee ndcessaire pour assurer une
formation professionnelle en 4ducation.



94
ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 21
9.        Les actions de formation continue out A l'heure actuelle un
caractbre tout-&-fait ponctuel et occasionnel. Le plus bouvent, il s'agit
de journdes p6dagogiques dout les thames sout etablis au coup par coup a
partir des demandes des maltres et decisions prises & l'4chelle locale
(CRFC/inspection). Depuis peu, des ateliers de fabrication d'aides
didactiques & faibles coats sont organises par les animateurs des CRFC. Au
cours de ces ateliers lea maltres ont l'occasion de fabriquer eux-mOmes des
objets tels que des ardoises ou des cartes de giographie Bien
qu'embryonnaires, ces activites fournissent un modble de formation utile
qui peut etre developpe et 4tendu dans le cadre du projet.
Inventaire des problames
10.       L'analyse de la situation des differentes composantes de
l'appareil de formation ainsi que l'examen de la situation d'ensemble de
l'enseignement elementaire, permet de d4gager lee probl&mes suivants:
i)   En ce qui concerne personnel de supervision et de formation, lss
problimes principaux sont les caPacites d'intervention et
l'efficacit4. Ces deux aspects renvoient au niveau de formation
des personnels concernes. Qu'il s'agisse des animateurs de CRtC
ou encore des inspecteurs ou des conseillers pedagogiques, le
principe de d6ldgation dane lea fonctions considerees a ete
systdmatiquement utilise. Li otx traditionnellement l'acces etait
conditionne par un certain parcours academique, lea vacances ont
4t4 comblees par des personnes ayant une qualification. un  cran
ou parfois plus. en-dessous. Ainsi, beaucoup do fonctionnaires a
ce niveau n'out ni le grade ni la formation correspondant a leur
fonction.
ii) l'heterogdneitd de la formation academique des 'suppleants.
iii)   En ce qui concerne les institutions assurant la formation, les
problemes se situent principalement au niveau de l'organisation
et de la coordination de leurs interventions respectives.
L'INSE, qui a la charge des ENI et des CRFC, n'a pas les moyens
de supervisor ces institutions. La Direction de l'enseignement
elementaire (DEE) et l'INSE ont chacun leur reseau de formation
continue.
iv) En ce qui concerne les schemas de formation, le probleme
principal est celui de l'adequation entre, d'une part les
programmes et les methodes, et d'autre part les performances des
maltres daus les salles de classe. Ce probleme se pose pour la
formation initiale et pour la formation continue. Les formateurs
mettent beaucoup plus l'accent sur le 'discours theoriques que
sur la pratique et la maitrise du savoir-faire. D'od la
preference pour l'expose magistral en grand groupe.



95
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 21
v)   la fiabilite toute relative des donn4es statistiques concernant
les personnels de l'4ducation.
vi)   Le d4sdquilibre dans la r6partition qualitative relative des
enseignants et des agents d'encadrement et de supervision. La
proportion de "suppl6ants' dans certaines pr6fectures d6passe
602. alors que dans d'autres elle atteint tout juste 102 (voir
Tableau 4).
vii)   Enfin, les blocages institutionnels en ce qui concerne la
carribre aussi bien des maStres que des personnels d'encadrement.
Pour des raisons principalement budgetaires. l'avancement dans la
fonction publique a 4t6 gelee et les concours de recrutement dits
professionnels supprimes.
III. L- Droiet
Obiectife
11.       Dans le domaine de la formation, les objectifs du projet sont les
suivantst
x)   amelioration des capacites p6dagogiques des maltree, en
particulier celle des maltres *suppldantsw ayant au moins deux
annees d'experience d'enseignement et deux ann4es d'enseignement
secondaire;
ii) amelioration de l'efficacit6 pddagogique des personnels
d'encadrement et de supervision;
iii)  amelioration de l'organisation et du fonctionnement des organes
charges de la formation, de l'encadrement et de la supervision.
12.       Ces objectifs seront poursuivis par le biais des activitds
suivantess
GOjectif 1:  Amhlioration des capacites p4dagogiques des maltres.
Activit6 1 -   Formation d'environ 1.750 mastreo suppldants.
ActivitQ 2 -   Journ6es pedagogiques pour lea maltres de
l'ldlmentaire.
Objectif 2: Am4lioration de l'efficacit4 des personnels d'encadrement
et de supervision
Activith 1 -   Stages pour 600 directeurs d'ecoles.
ActivitO 2 -   Session de formation pour 120 instituteurs
d6ldgu6s aux fonctions d'inspecteur consaillers
p4dagogiques, et animateurs de CRFC.



96
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6of 21
Activitd 3 -   S4minaires pour les 61 inspecteurs et responsables
de CRFC.
Objectif 3: Am4lioration de l'organisation et du fonctionnement des
organes charges de la formation, de l'encadrement et de
la supervision.
Activite 1 -   Etude d'organisation et methode du MEN dont la
realisation serait financ4e par la BAD.
Activit4 2 -   Cr4ation d'un systeme de suivi/evaluation de la
formation.
Activit4 3 -   Renforcement des moyens d'intervention des
inspections et des CRFC.
Les activites
Formation des maStres "supRl1ants
13.       Le Tchad utilise & l'heure actuelle environ 2.525 mastres
suppl.ants; vu les restrictions sur le recrutement dans la fonction
publique, la croissance du systeme sera tres probablement supportee par la
cat4gorie des suppl.ants (voir Annexe 2-5). Les possibilit4s de formation
des suppleants sont fonction de trois variables principales: la capacitO
d'encadrement, le niveau de formation academique des suppl4ants et le nombre
d'annees d'experience dans l'enseignement de ceux-ci. La seule variable
complhtement maltris4e est celle qui concerne l'encadrement des stages. Cet
encadrement peut *tre assure par le personnel des CRFC (au nombre de 78), le
personnel pedagogique des Inspections (au nombre de 81),
cortains professeurs des ecoles normales et des fonctionnaires de l'INSE
(environ une dizaine). Ces cadres sont actuellement largement sous-employ4s
par manque de moyens materiels et logistiques. En outre, durant les
prochaines annees, l'ENS (avec l'appui du FAC) formera environ 50
conseillers pedagogiques principaux & orientation pratique (CPPOP). Sans
faire de tri qualitatif, le projet peut compter des sa premiere annee sur
170 encadreurs et a partir de la deuxieme annee sur prls de 230. En
comptant deus instructeurs par groupe de 30 stagiaires pour les stages
longs, il est donc possible de former annuellement environ 250 suppl.ants au
debut du projet et environ 500 sur la fin.  Pour former ces maltres, le
projet disposera de l'appui de 20 centres regionaux de formation continue,
de cinq ENI et des 34 inspections de l'enseignement 4l.mentaire.  Les
maltres admis & suivre les stages seront choisis par les inspecteurs I
partir de critares portanc sur l'anciennete dans l'enseignement, le niveau
acadimique (lea maltres ayant un niveau inf4rieur au CEP deux ans no
seraient pas retenus) et l'age.  La priorite serait donnre aux prefactures
ayant le plus fort pourcentage de suppl4ants. Pour permettre & l'appareil
de formation de so rOder durant la premiere ann4e, on recruterait seulement
250 stagiAires travaillant dans une dizaine de centres. Le second groupe
comprendrait 500 stagiaires. Le troisieme groupe de stagiaires comprendrait
500 maltres et 300 seront formes en l'an 4 du projet. Un etalement sur 5
ans pourrait Otre envlsage au cas oii l'extension s'avare difficile. Cette



97
ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 21
rEpartition tient compte des deperditions sur l'effectif initial et de
l'entr4e en formation de nouveaux maltres qui, sur la fin du projet,
auraient rempli les conditions d'admission. Deux categories de maitres
suppleants seront considerees: ceux qui sont titulaires du BEPC (environ
200) et ceux qui d6tiennent le CEP sans avoir obtenu le BEPC.
14.  a)   Pour les dEtentoure du BNRC, le projet prendrait en charge leur
formation, repartie en doux cycles courts de 10 jours chacun, un cycle long
de deux mois et huit journEes pedagogiques par an et durerait deux annees.
Los maitres brevetds qui auraient suivi avec succ&s l'ensemble du cycle de
deux ans seraient admis sur titre dans les ENI & raison de 100 par anne., &
partir de l'an 3 du projet (20 par ENI a partir de la fin du premier cycle
de formation). Environ deur cents suppleants seraient concernes durant les
cinq annEes du projet. A l'issue de la formation le brevetE eot admis sur
titre en premiare annee d'ENI. Cette disposition prend en compte et
encourage la motivation que le suppleant a manifestee & l'egard de
l'enseignement qu'il intigre ainsi, selon les critbres de formation
habituels qui le preparent a intervenir sur tout le cycle du primaire.  Il
b4nEficie durant ses deur annees de formation & l'ENI d'une bourse mensuelle
de 14.500 FCdA.
b)   Los maltres non d"tenteurs du BZPC, justif2iant de deou  annees de
pratique dans l'enseignement et ayant au moins accompli deur ann4es d'etudes
dans le secondaire seront admis dans un cycle de formation comprenant deur
stages courts de 10 jours chacun, et un stage long de huit semaines. Ces
stages se dErouleraient de decembre & septembre. Les stages courts seraient
directement en prise avec l'activite courante du maStre (organisation de la
classe, organisation du temps, processus didactique, etc.); le stage long,
serait consacre & la pedagogie speciale des disciplines de base, a la
maitrise d'outils simples (guides pddagogiques, instruments d'evaluation des
apprentissages, constructions d'aides pedagogiques a faibles cotts...)
destinEes a ameliorer la pratique enseignante et enfin a l'apprentissage des
connaissances de base en fran.ais et en calcul. A l'issue d'une annee de
formation, le maitre supplEant non brevet6 retourne dans sa classe.
AmElioration de l'efficacite des Dersonnels d'encadrement et de supervision
a)   Seminaires vour insvecteurs et responsables CRFC
15.       Les inspecteurs des zones d'intervention du projet participent
chaque annEe a un seminaire permettant d'assurer la planification et la
coordination des differentes activitEs. Le premier de ces sEminaires aurait
lieu avant le dEmarrage du projet et aurait pour objet la prEsentation de
l'ensemble du plan de formation: programme, materiel, strategie et viserait
a recueillir les rEactions des inspecteurs afin de proceder a d'eventuels
reajustements.



98
ANNf, 3-4
Page 8 of 2 1
Seminaire 1
Lieu   : N'DJ amna.
Public : IPEE, IEE, responsables CRFC.
Duree  : 10 jours chaque s4minaire
Dates  s ler s#minaire : d6but du projet
2me sdminairet dernier trimestre 1989
3me sdminaire:  dernier trimestre 1992.
Participants : 61 inspecteurs et responsables CRFC.
(per diem - 3.500 FCFA)
b)   Session de formation your les insvecteurs. les conseillers
oddaaoaiques et lea animateurs de CRFC
16. Pendant la dur6e du projet, tous lee instituteurs ddlegu6s aus
fonctions de conseiller p4dagogique et d'inspecteur ainsi quo les animateurs
de CRFC (Total: 120), suivront deux stages de trois mois. Ces stages visent
I amiliorer lee capacites d'intervention de cette categorie de personnel et
en outre permettront la prdparation des actlons de formation destinees au%
maitres et aux directeurs d'6cole.
Lieu : N'Djamena
Durne : trois mois ou 432 heures
Dates :   a) Groupes 1 et 2 (dates & fixer)
b) Groupes 3 et 4 (dates & fixer)
c) Groupes 1 et 2 : trois mois en 1989
d) Groupes 3 et 4 s trois mais en 1989.
Encadrement:   quatre animateurs pour chaque groupe de 30 ; ces
animateurs appartiendront & l'Qquipe technique chargde
de la pr6paration des programmes de formation. le
specialist, attache A cette dquipe interviendra durant
un mois aupres des quatre groupes en 1988 ou 19a9.
(honoraires - 3.500 FCFA/heure).
c)   SCminaires pour les directeurs d'ecoles
17.       Pendant la duree du projet, 600 directeurs d'Ccole choisis parmi
ceux qui sont au moins instituteurs-adjoints, participeront & des s4minaires
portant, d'une part, sur la gestion des dcoles tchadiennes (y compris sea
dimensions relationnelles, notamment avec les APE et les questions
d'entretien du batiment et des manuels), d'autre part, sur l'animation
pddagogique dans l'itablissement. Ces sdminaires seront d'une duree d'un
maoi et places de maniure a servir de point d'appui pour la preparation
efficace des rentrees scolaires.



99
ANNEX 3-4
Page 9 of 21
Lieu: chefs-lieus de pr4fecture ou sous-pr6focture.
Encadroment: inspecteurs et CP I raison de deux par groupe de 30 personnes.
Ces stages s situeront avant chacune des rentrdes scolaires apres la mise
en vigueur du projet.
18.       Journ4es vddaRosiaues.  Les journies p4dagogiques sont des moments
de rEflection et d'entralnement collectifs sur la pratique p4dagogique au
niveau d'un Etablissement ou d'un groupe d'etablissements d'une mOme zone
d'action pedagogique (ZAP). Pendant ces journdes phdagogiques, les maStres
ont la possibilit4 de construire des aides pEdagogiques & faible coot,de
travailler sur les difficultEs rencontreea en salle de classe, d'am6liorer
avec l'aide des encadreurs leur pratique. Ces encaareurs sont des
Directeurs d'ecoles, des conseillers pedagogiques ou des animateurs de CRF.
Public:   Participent a ces journ6es pedagogiques tous les maitres
designes par les inspecteurs (suppldants et fonctionnaires).
Nombre:   L'objectif est de recevoir environ 900 maitres pour chaque
journee pedagogique.
Amelioration de l'orxanisation et du fonctionnement des orRaneS charies de
la formation
19.       Etude d'oraanisation et methodes -  Trois organes du MEN out pour
une de leur mission l'intervention dans le champ de la formation; ce sont:
l'Institut national des sciences do 1'educatican (INSE) de qui relevent les
ecoles normales d'instituteurs (ENT) et lea centres rdgionaux de formation
continue (CRFC), la Direction de l'enseignement dldmentaire (DEE) de qui
relevent lea inspections et 1'Ecole normale superieure (ENS). L'analyse la
plus sommaire rdv&le que les activitds de ces trois organismes sont trbs peu
coordonndes; elles se situent hidrarchiquement k des niveaux diffdrents:
1'ENS et l'INSE sont des organismes autonomes relevant directement du
Ministre de l'education nationale, alors que la DEE eat places sous
l'autoritd du Directeur gEnEral de l'education nationale.  L'examen de la
composition du personnel de chacune de ces institutions, en particulier
l'INSE, fait apparaltre une inaddqvAtion entre le profil du personnel et les
attributions de ces institutions. Ces elements proviennent d'une analyse
sommaire de la situation et ne permettent pas de faire des propositions de
rEorganisation. Celles-ci ne pourraient venir que d'une etude d'ensemble du
MEN, 6tude qui doit demarrer vers juin 1989 sur financement BAD.
SuivilEvaluation de la formation
20.       Le syst&me de suivi/evaluation a pour but de pormettres
a)   le suivi des activites de formation en cours d'execution;



100
ANNMX 3-4
Page 10 of 2 1
b)   la mesure des corpetences des ma_.tres dans leur salle de classe
apres avoir suivi des stages de formation;
c)   la localisation des dysfovctionnements dans la formation et
l'introduction de mesures correctives visant a amdliorer l.
fonctionnement et le rendement de l'appareil de formation;
d)   la collecte d'informations facilitant la gestion du volet
formation du projet en cours;
e)   la r4alisation d' tudes portant aussi bien sur le systime de
formation actuel que sur les tr%nsformations 6ventuelles de ce
systime.
21.       Le suivi/dvaluation de la formation sera assure par:
a)   un organe responsable de la conception, de la realisation des
Ovaluations, ainsi que de l'interprdtation des donndes
recueillies. Cet organe sera appel Unit# d'evaluation de la
formation (UEF) et sera place auprbs de la DEE.
b)   des antennes locales chargees de collecter lee donnees et de
reagir aux propositions faites par 1'UEF.
L'UEF sera composee de trois merbres au niveau central et de 14 agents dans
ls Inspections de l'enseignement elementaire (IEE). Le rattachement a la
Direction de l'enseignement 6lementaire, en liaison avec la DNPE, presente
l_avantage de renforcer cette directiou en la dotant d'un organs facilitant
le contrOle des activitds. Cette structuration permettra une synergie entre
les trois Directions de l'INSE qui assure la formation des maStres
suppleants, ha Direction de l'enseignement elementaire qui utilise les
maltres suppleants et le la DNPE qui assure la supervision de l'ezxcution du
projet.
Activitgs Unite d'6valuation de la formation (UEF)t
Compositions trois membres au niveau central, 14 agents dans lea
Inspections.
Le projet financera la mise en place de cette unite et la formation de son
personnel.
22.       Formation g4r lee agents de l'valuation.  L'UEF disposera d'un
agent dans chacune des prefectures o0 intervient le projet. Ces agents
recrutes parmi le personnel des inspections et des CRFC seront charges du
suivi r6gulier des diffdrentes activitfs de formation. Afin de leur
permettre d'intervenir efficacenent et afin d'assurer une dtroite
communication entre L'UEF et eux, il sera organise quatre sessions de
formation d'une duree d'un mois ch&cune, pour lee former en matiere de:
methode d'observation et de suivie des enseignements form6s; collectc de
dounCes et informations qualitatives; methodes de suivi de information vers



101
ANNEX 3-4
Page 11 of 2 1
l'UEF; analyse prdliminaire. Deux sessions pourront Qtre organisies pendant
la premiere annie du projet et deux autres durant les autres ann4es.
Dates        s fevrier 1989, juin 1989, mArs 1990 et mars 1991.
Responsable : Unite d'evaluation de la formation
Encadrement : Membres de I'unite et experts.
23.       Renforcement des centres r6xionaux de formation continue (CRFC).
Les CRFC sont au nombre de vingt et sont r4partis sur tout le territoire
tchadien I l'exception du BET. Ces centres bdneficient actuellement de
l'aide de la cooperation suisse qui assure la formation initiale de
conseillers p6dagogiques a orientation pratique qui sont charges de la mise
en oeuvre de programes d'education agricole et qui forment les maltres k la
fabricstion d'aides pedagogiques I faibles coUts. L'intervention suisse
(equipements et fabrication de matdriel didactique) devrait durer jusquen
1991.  Pour permettre la realisation des activit6s de formation prevues dans
le cadre de ce projet, il est envisagd do renforcer la capacitd
d'intervention de ces CRFC en lour fournissant (i) des velos, (ii) de
l'equipement pour la reliure qui servira A la formation de differents agents
& une technique permettant de prolonger la durde de vie des livres
scolaires, et (iii) des livres pour une bibliotheque pedagogique.
24.       Renforcement de la supervision.  La mise en oeuvre de lVaction de
formatIon et de rehabilitation du systime, tant au plan du personnel que des
locaux, repose sur le personnel de controle et d'encadrement. Co dernier
est sans moyen materiel et le projet fournira aux inspecteurs principaux et
dldmentaires les moyens de soutenir les maltres formes, de maintenir le
dialogue avec les A!! et d'animer lea activites pAdagogiques.
Execution du Proist
25.       L'exscution de l'lelment  lPormation  du projet comportera
essentiellement deux phasess  (a) une phase de preparation et (b) une phase
de mise en oeuvre proprement dite.
a)   La phase de pr4paration comprond l'ensemble 'es activites et des
mesures prec6dant le deroulement des stages de formation destinCs
aux maltres: ce sont:
Ci)   les activites visant & mieux cerner le public & former (le
recensoment et les tests de d6termination des profils
d'entree);
(ii)   les activites visant & la planification pedagogique des
activitds de formation, programnes, documents d'appui,
guides pour les instructeurs);
(iii)   des activit4s visait & organiser l'appareil de formation
('designation des organes charg4s de l'exdcution de chacune
des phases, desirAation des personnels charges de ces



102
ANNEX 3-4
Page 12 oa 21
organes, recrutement des experts devant travailler & la
realisation des activit4s prevues, d6finition de certaines
procedures de controle des activit6s qui seront menses),
et
(iv)   la formation destin6e aux animateurs des stages et aux
fonctionnaires responsabies des structures locales qui
seront engag4s dans les operations de formation).
b)     la phase de mise en oeuvre proprement dite comporte deux types
d'activit4s:
(i)   les stages destines aux miltres et aux directeurs
d'ecoles; et,
(ii)   les activitAs visant a la regulation de ces stages.
26.       Les points critiques.  Certaines actions ou. certaines activites
representent des points de passage obligatoires (points critiques) de
l'element formations du projet. Tout blocage ou tout retard en ces points
aurait des incidences sur la mise en oeuvre du projet. A cette itape les
points critiques rep4r4s sont les suivantss
a)   Phase de Dr4daration
(i)   Elaboration des programmes et des documents d'arnui.  Tout
le d6roulement des activit4s de formation repose sur la
qualiti et le soin apporte a la preparation de ces
programmes et de ces documents d'appui. I1 faut que les
animateurs de CRFC et les conseillers p6dagogiques
disposent d'instructions pr6cises quant aux objectifs
opdrationnels a atteindre dans les stages. La r6alisation
de cette activit4 ddpendra elle-mAme de la comphtence de
l'equipe chargee de la mener & bien. C'est l'un des
donaines ob le service d'un specialiste s'avere le plus
important. Du point de vue du calendrie:,. il faut
signaler quo tout retard dans cette activiti se
rApercutera sur le calendrier de mise en oeuvre de
i'AiAment formation.
(ii)   Formation des animateurs des stages.  Dans l'ezAcution de
cette activite, il faudra veiller a retenir les animateurs
les plus qualifi4s, car ils seront amends A travailler, en
etroite collaboration avec les responsables de
l'Alaboration de programmes, A l'Avaluation de ceux-ci et
a la revision des documents de stage. La r4alisation de
la premiere session correspondra en quelque sorte & un
accroissement des ressources humaines participant a la
prdparation des stages pour les maltres et les directeurs.



103
ANNEX 3-4
Page 13 of 2 1
b)     Phase de miss en oeuvre.  La realisation des stages presente des
points critiques qui n'offrent pas de spdcificit6a particulieres
dans le cas du Tcha4. Le rythme d'ex4cution correspond aux
capacitis d'encadrsment (entre 170 et 230 encadreurs) et aux
capacit0s d'accueil (20 centres de formation continue rdp;trtis
sur l'onsemble du territ ire). Lee premiers stages seront
organises & l'intention des maltres du Kanem, du Hayo-Kebi. du
Ouaddat, du Tandjile et du Logone occidental qui sont lea
prefectures od le nombre de suppl6ants eat le plus eleve
(oroportiunnellement & la populaticn des enseignants).
Cependant, en co qui concerne la gestion des stages, il faudra
veiller des le ddbut & la creation et la mise & jour r6gulibre
d'un fichier oW seront repertorihs tous ceux qui participent &
ces stages. Le veritable point critique de cette seconds phase
est la mise en place des activites visant I la regulation des
stages; en particulier et pour l'essentiel, lI s'agit de tout ce
qui a trait au suivi/dvaluation des activit6s de formation.
Cette composants est actuellement tout-&-fait etrang8re au
systame 6ducatif tchadien; elle n'en est pas moins capitale pour
la conduite de co projet de r4habilitation si l'on vout avoir
des informations reguliares sur le deroulement du projet. Elle
sera aussi importante pour les phases ulterieures du
d6veloppement du systeme dducatif tchadien, bien apris la fin de
ce orojet. La premiere demarche consistera I dtsigner les
membres de l'UEF; ces membres devraient Otre designes en meme
temps que l'equipe chargee de la prdparation des programmes de
formation et travailler dans un premier temps & l'elahboration
de ceo programmes. La differentiation dans lee tAches
n'interviendrait quo durant la premibre annee du projet au
moment de l'arrivee du specialiste charge de travailler A
l'elaboration de la methodologie et des instruments pour le
suivi/evaluation de la formation. Ce specialists travaillerait
sur place pendant six mois au cours de la premiire annee du
projet, reviendrait ensuite pour une nouvelle pEriode de six
mois durant la seconde annee du projet et pour deux pAriodes
d'un mois et demi au cours des deux dernieres annees du projet.



104                          P^ae 14 of 2 1
Schima 1: ORGANISATION DES CYCLES DE FORMATION FORMELLE
DANS LES ECOLES NORMALES D'INSTITUTEURS
I mtttttJr-ur
*fJlint (4 4 ens        Sacheliers             o@nitteurs
de 5ratique)                                   supdreurs iEK
Concounr_                                   Concoun               _
_3hil                 lire et 2b"
5   nnd*                annd*
nst tutou  ~   ~       Cnsellrs
i  Concours    |
2Cansc1e
principus
I orientati0n
Utilisation I la sortie :
L(Uires)



105
Page 15 of 21
Tableau I
STRUCTURE D'ACE DES MAITRES De LA PONCTION PUBLIQUE
Total
Plus de 40 &ns             Entre 30 et 40 ens          Molns de 30 sns           catoigari
Nombre           %           Nombre                     Nombre 
Instituteurs                       314          30,0            561          54,0          156          15,0          1 031
Institutours-adjoints              178          15,1            435          37,9          560          46,8          1 173
Moniteurs suphrl.urs              335           86,7            188          33,0            1           0,1             502
Monitsurs brevetds                 131          49,4            134          50,5            -              -            265
Moniteurs titulaires               252          86,5             33          11,3            6           2,0             291
Total                           1 210                         1 329                        723                         3 212
37,0                         40,7                       22,1
Sourees Estimation du MEN.
,ab'.eau 2
Admix au CF  de 1930 & 196?
N' Dlamof    Moundou  Abh.w    SeIh            Boangm      Total
H      F    H    F   H    F    HN    P    N    F    H         F
1930/81            -      -    41   1    -   -    39   -        -   -    sO    1
1981/82            -      -    64   1    -   -    36   1         -       100    2
1942183           33      1    24   -    -   -    38   -    28   -   123    1
1943/84           20      4    22   -    -   -    17   2    25   -    84    6
1984/65           41      1    26   -    -   -    20   1    23   -   110    2
1985/88           44      3    32   3    -   -    23   1    21   -   120    7
1986/87           36      5    33   1   23   1    28   2    24   -   144    9
Toal cuuld   174    14   242  6  23   1   Vf1   7   121   a    S'   28
Source: Estimation  du  MEN.



106
3-4
page 16o1   21
Tableau 3
Admi au CEPN de 1980 a 1987
N' Djamens   Moundou       Abch.        Sarh    Bangor       Total
H    F    H    F    H        F   H   F   H   F    H         F
1980/81          52    1    41    2      -    -   24   4    -   -    11?    7
1981/82          15    -    85    1      -    -   54   -   51   -    205    1
1982/83           4    -    47    4      -    -   32   1    -   -       83    5
1983/84          53    1    31    1      -    -   16   i   25   -    125    3
1984/85          41    3    31    1    55    1   20   1   23   -    170    6
1985/86          47   11    39    5    62    4   31   7   38   4    217   31
1986/87          95   21    97    4    75   12   85  14   73   8    425   59
Toul eumnult  307   37   371   '3   1k   17  262  23  210  12  1 342  112
Source: MEN.
Tableau 4
La Pnoaortlon do MHttre 9uohdantS Oar Pi8fet.
Suppl4ant           Total*           Z Supplants
Datha                       40                  95                 42.1
ur                           -                  11-
hiltine                     27                   GS                39.7
chari-DaS.                 196               1 0C1                 13.1
Gu4rs                      182                 287                 63.4
Kamm                       129                  200                64,5
LAc                         28                   8s                35.5
Logone Occ.                346                  767                41.1
Mayo KAbbi                 561               1 142                 49.1
Mtla-Ohat                  156                  676                17.8
Ouaddal                     04                 159                 52.8
Sal.at                     35                   73               47.9
Taudjh14                   266                 4Us                 58.8
Tot"                     a3 523             6003                   407.
Sources HXJ
L  chiffrc de 1offectif total no tiant pas co  pt . de lowiroo
10 de s aewlpents (fonctionnalr.a) *mr-at des foanctioes
ad knistratives.



107
Page 17 of 21
Tableau 5
EfoctIf d  ENI de 1982 & 1987
1982/83         1983/84       1984/85           1985/86         1986/87
1    2    3    1    2   3   1    2    3   1          2    3    1    2    3
N'Djamena  91   -   34   47   54  30   48   42   36   91   58.  50   83  118   37
Abche         - 15    65  8    1   6   96   44    6  105   64    6  93   91   24
Moundou      37  51   24   40   32  22   47   33   26   69   45   35   79  100   35
Sarh         34  33   39   23   17  19 45  23   21   72   39   24   61   96   30
Bangor        28 -   30   29   25  28   54   22   23   63   4    21   67  82   24
Total       190  93 127m    1    13 n  2  @164  I    400  250 130 383  487  150
Note i1    lim annee  2 a 2me r a     3de ; 3  3me annde.
Eftoctifs 1987/88
Hommes at femmes non aocids:
3mea nne :150  (admis au concou s 1987).
+ 4 (admls au concours 1986, n'ayant pu rejoindre lour paste).
2emo  nne: 150 (dont 16 femmes) (admis au concours 1987 desm oiteun supdvieus).
lin ann ,
-  eonoms extr. t ruultats non encor communiqu4s.
- concours intern (moniteurs): rdsultats non encore communiques.



108
ANNIK 3-4
Pge  Is8 f 2of
Tableau 6
Eeo1m nmnmeld   - Etat do oenoanel & PlEin teWm     1987
N'Djamen   Moundou  Abtche    Sahr    Bongor   Totaux
Llcenclis                 2           2         1         2         2          9
CAP-CEO                   3           1         4          2        1         11
bspaeteur
princip&ux                -           2         -          2        1          3
Conseillers
p6dagogiques              2           1         2         -         2          7
Administwatewu
saolaires                  2          -         -          -        1          3
Instituteurs              2           4         1          6        -         13
Proteumrs 8PS             -           -         -          -        1          2
Insttuteuts
adjoints                  1           1         -          1        1          4
Monitetwa
supneurs                  -           -         -              -          -
Attachds
d administrtion           1           1         -          1        -          3
Totaut                   13          14         6         14        *         5s
Source: IEN.



109                                       AM P-_
Page 19 of Z.
SC
-p
.4
E5
- S
Sb
#0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
41S           0a



Opl,opd bee gabl
Polossawo,
Use tools                              Is". egt9s ..                ftk
..  ....... . ... ....... ........ .   ~*C0ol  Is,  arms I"o S~v
o,e   0   son0  4991  8M12 90  1914 tots)   8099 Costto 949  9800   919  02  9E4Isl  lat4 1..   It"9  90   1991  949  98923 1914 9,9.9    8.9. In.9..  *A9.   k',oloo
IL  08S9U18000IPS10  109  1004K 07 SIUF                    619898MI       4    2      -                               0 6   2 4      27                       30    a2 349                               124      a     I         8     fit
s. 9910aols                                             809898     '0    90        -                     20      0.00    0 302         -                *0     I09029                                         10 
298111110989                                           980900            0 g                       -     20      0)781  4608  400                         9 82    90949094                           323 0     a    0          4      Is
be6 total 98096900Of Its  09010                                                                                             41147 1                          9443  1624)024        -                    3240
o vnswo S im 944 3890 08uI 00 "PC uuuS I
I *9109891S                                            78&06         390   405  406  310               . 9.4(0    0004    I92   98   I8   92               a 00    42   8   3A342                    20     I0       9         It0     00
298098980                                              918189        390  405  60   290               9. S40     0.9064   W0I 784  784 40o9              25471It 9  74834224174068770I                         0    0          a      I 
I 81009891                                             948408       9242 7.5   40 S 30274924            200      0.0ON    091023040 4             038918    02I493I 902  43                             4    09      9         0    000
2. Emilia                                               918cK       924  374    40   so02)49 24         20    .0224    49  922 3964I 1412234 1  047    14242448S06SS4149142   2206                             0    0          a      to
2 090494999890$                                         048                      SO 4    900  so    -  n20      0 348      -    -9743208974              08         -       G 000200aG00            2208      0  023          0    919
C4-loi #INOO                                                           -    4      4 INM4IKP O    -S    2021 -90     9472  1 07907   -4 2i                             287214 7287287? 1*51         9488    09 40
I 09009H090 0F Cole
tiao VS                                             cm           20.20                                               99      IlaIo41                  94%          1  3672        -              63I721   09     9         0    404
S"-9o9010968098108809800408f9CIOC9                                                                                        2      o 90   90.   907 90.71    748   974        7  317  287  201          2100
9. 0097090     m ofco
80908989                                              cot                                       -                      4                                                                           909  ns 6 26     09  7   0   809
woicoei,qi                                   .    .    .          *                      04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....224.224..09....0 0..
0.80-9.9.9900974000N Of14999089                                                                                                                    .       M.   24112  
.....   .....   .....   .....   . ...   ...        ..~ ~ ~ 4 .. . .
9980989  I                                                 P8                    8          8    -I0            81       -140484         948908           14      444444443, 22                              0      0         0      980
MINIM                         8smelon          of   17~~~~ It              -                      44 841 2    2    002   90     .     I2   96 Ia7Ia7         a 2703 ~            9      09   08         0      to
9.9.906806   CIIS                                                                   a     4I0                              i    i 8i  90.4   20  92    90    40     -7  2474547N 424 48 47 4          P"2                               li
104.9                                                                                                                       20PkMl 106I aI 20     Is 93  4s 94   Is 4 4    - 4   781 9 709 4  42229   299 7- 94 2.6002
....   .. ..   .... ... .     . ..     . ..   ..I
lo27. 910WN Cot 9&,441 4943      OS42T   2 $13t                                                                                                                                      1     ty'  "64t74  
.. ..... .... I..... ... .... ... ~~~~                                 ~9



e4
I4
-4
1<6463  OL40444044OLC4Ittt  0431-    0010600W   ott  o16                                                                               0~~~~~~~~S31JI1111110134Jo  160l33 3'
30        90          10    6   O's   S 49   S  U3L   S3 0*0434041 "I    447    -         IOn0 61   06464                                                                                                  $3111311111 0 in 3U0103$A  II90
*3  0      0     0       3~~~~~~~03  - -            34434Vg   3 1040-                          0906000 .006-. clo00   0   00let4of63003314sl163111
In4     *          3     3 9      30                 -       40        0         8        0                 0 to3000o000-                                 00 .0   00C         16C el3SO 013A103 '
010013304 1030   010 WIOIOiK  0
0i~~~u    0  3   40 ~~~941611                            9                '                    VC0.03                                                                                ldnv 30044000 J osm n 1 1316019t
000    0    ~ ~ ~ *      1      -    -      00~W   I0    00I  tiI       -0 -0I. 040                   0   09   4000        0*4       - -     -3   OK   03   300    1463603340*                                 1313333'
0   0   0  :  C'O  C 0   0  too    009~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~301134S*    ISh*46 
3   03Q   @33933*q              33466   0    4336    4316     .30  06  .6  .336    1316310   3                                   80 0  66   06 46   36  0163  6063             333'Siitm
L.in.%  3304 1164  6 -3043                                                 -                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .................
$333 03803 03313  033038013~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                    3toMOD    n    osfm 
I*I*4~~~C  u9S                                   19916 I0V                             t4      'lOWt2103m                                                                                            oslsm e    to-p
..   ...   ... .     .. ..   .... ....   ... .  .. ..   ...   ...   ...   ...   ....   .....
0  t 0  & 6"         .     ,      ,     I G"   t.oog             ,    ,      ,~~~~*3~  I30630*3300063134
al  0  0  s is              9 St  I St  0 It  I'St   I It               s t ~*s3*336  306s14  13O'            "at                    t     to    I 31300 4l                                              i'
Om  0                       s 0   s 0   s 0   6 0    l'O                9 0 ~~~~~~~139,064   U1 94133  86'3"463t                           to163103d"                                             11131111  
030 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~......    ........



1 '2
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Support to Education Sector ManaRement and Planning
1.        BackRround. The disturbances of the 1979-1982 period have had a
serious impact on MEN's ability to efficiently plan and manage the
education sector. All statistics and records were lost or destroyed, the
attention of officials was focused on more urgent concerns, communications
became increasingly difficult and the flow of resources dwindled to the
point of negating any effort to conduct operations as usual. As a result,
MEN not only ceased to support and control the sector; it also lost track
of the activities .hat had taken place during that period and the
expansion that occured afterwards. This expansion was largely spontaneous,
consisting of numerous, uncoordinated activities (primary school
construction, teacher recruitment and maintenance) undertaken by the local
coumities, usually APEs. Thic development offers an opportunity to
broaden the resource base for the sector, provided MEN has the capacities
to play its role, i.e. to define strategies, set standards and norms,
supervise and ensure that both public and private resources are used
efficiently.
2.        In this respect, there are four priority areas of concern: (a)
the structure, organization and procedures of the Ministry, which is
characterized by (i) a high degree of centralization, (ii) functions,
roles and intra-ministerial relationships which are poorly defined,
especially with respect to the seven principal inspectorates, and (iii) a
high proportion (10) of non-teaching staff, which is associated with a
mismatch between profiles and some administrative, managerial and
technical functions; (b) budget preparation procedures which. combined
with a poor data base, result in (i) inaccurate projections, and (ii)
insufficient cost and expenditure control, which makes it difficult to
identify and correct anomalies; (c) personnel management whih, due to the
lack of properly trained staff, poor comunnications and insufficient
material, is based on incomplete or outdated information, leading to
inefficient staffing, delays in salary payments and ineffective career
management; and (d) planning and policy development, where there is an
imnediate need to complete and refine the data base collected since 1985
and a medium-term need to produce analyses and studies to monitor sectoral
developments, identify issues, propose solutions, and define a long term
strategy covering all aspects of the sector. All of these points take on
particular importance in the present context of intensive APE and donor
activities.
3.        Obiectives. In close coordination with other donors, this
component would support Government's efforts to optimize the mobilization
and use of educational resources (public, private and external) to



113
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 4
accelerate the rehabilitation process and to reshape the sector taking
into account the needs of the economy and revenue prospects. It would
focus on: (a) the organization and management (OWM) of MEN in order to
improve the effectiveness of its field and central operations; (b)
budgetary procedures in order to improve allocative efficiency,
transparency for better financial management and to provide a rational
basis for increased allocations; (c) personnel management in order to
raise staff productivity, facilitate budget preparation, control the
growth of salary expenditures and facilitate timely salary payments; (d)
planning to collect and analyze data, publish educational statistics,
conduct studies and submit options to decision-makers for the formulation
of a sectoral strategy.
4.        Strategy. To achieve the above objectives, the project would
support (i) Ministry-wide improvements in organization and managerial
methods; (ii) the Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs
(DAAFM); and (iii) MEN's Planning Unit and the Council for Educational
Development (CED).
5.        O&M. An AfDB-firinced study, about to be launched (June 1988),
will analyze MEN's organiLational structure, the roles and functions of
each of its entities, staffing levels, profiles and assignments.
coordination at the central level and with the field units, information
flows, and operating procedures. On that basis, the study would formulate
recommendations for improvements. The study would be discussed on a
tripartite basis with Government before December 31, 1988, and
implementation of the agreed upon reconmmendations would begin by June 30,
1989. In support of thlis process, under the project, MEN's senior staff
would receive 24 man-mouths of short-term training abroad in management,
while two regional seminars of 15 days each would be organized during PYs
1 and 3 with the assistance of local and international consultants for
middle level personnel (50 persons) with management responsabilities at
the central and field levels.
6.        Budietary procedures. Preparation of the budget would be
facilitated: (a) by a clearer definition of priorities (as stated in
Government's policy letter, Annex 3-1); (b) by more precise knowledge and
better monitoring of the number of teachers by level (para. 7), which is
necessary for personnel allocations, and (c) for operating expenses, by
the adoption of objective criteria (such as prorating allocations of
materials to the number of students, or staff; or, the need for
flexibility rather than similar growth for each institution or unit). A
cost and expenditure control system would also be established at DAAPM
with the assistance of specialist services. These measures, and their
usefulness for implementing the policy framework, would reduce
inaccuracies, result in a more efficient input combination (personnel/
material), allow more rational and transparent budgetary choices, and
increase the rate of implementation of the budget. In support this
process, the project would support training for MEN personnel involved in
budget preparation by the specialist services (8 man-months) provided to
work with MEN staff in the development of improved methods and procedures.



114
ANNEX 3ZS
Page 3 of 4
7.        Personnel manaiement. FAC recently initiated a project aimed at
developing in MEN (which employs about 282 of the civil service) a
personnel management system which could be used as a model for other
departments in the civil service. In an initial phase, this operation
would support the updating of personnel files and the modernization of the
methods and techniques used designed to accelerate and rationalize the
collection and processing of personnel information (recruitment,
promotion, transfers). This would facilitate: (a) the prompt
identification and correction of anomalies which, in a system as
centralized as Chad's, tend to paralyze, for insta-ce, salary payment (cf
Annex 3-6); (b) budget preparation and monitoring; (c) th- task of
deploying teachers and non teachers in a cost-effective manner; and (d)
for the longer term, developping a broad personnel policy. FAC would
provide to DAAFM staff specialized assistance and training, which the
proposed project would complement with office supplies, equipment and
incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
S.        Planning and strategy develooment. MEN's Planning Unit was
reactivated in 1986, with priority given to reconstructing a data base on
all aspects of the sector (pedagogic, financial, efficiency,
administration) and to providing training in planning, educational
statistics and school location planning. This process needs to be further
reinforced since the pupil and teacher censuses conducted in 1986 and 1987
did not yield accurate results, partly because the forms used to collect
the data lacked simplicity and clarity, and partly because field staff
lacked training in administering and promptly returning them. These data
are needed in order to provide the basis on which the Unit would conduct,
in some cases with specialized assistance, studies aimed at supporting
policy and strategy formuxlation. In order to improve the Unit's capacities
to produce reliable statistics in a timely fashion, the project would
support: (a) training for staff in N'Djamena and in the regional offices
(inspections) through two fifteen day seminars for fifty staff-members
each during PYs 1 and 2; (b) equipment (including a microcomputer)- (c) 29
man-months of outside specialist assistance for training and the
conception and development of planning activities, especially statistical
collection and analysis: (d) 24 man-months of overseas fellowships; and
(e) incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
9.       A' "Cellule de Reflexion sur le Developpement de 1'Educationo(CED)
was created recently to guide the process of strategy development and
ensure that the resulting educational strategy reflects the views and
aspirations of large segments of Chadian society. A sectoral strategy is
expected to be submitted to external donors zt the Round Table meeting
organized by UNDP, scheduled for around March 1989. The initial set of
proposals would need to be refined through complementery studies, applied
research, experimental programs and national fora where representatives of
MEN, other Government departments, employers, and parents would agree on
possible new directions for the sector. The topics to be covered by the
studies would include: (a) the costs and financing of education, including
(i) the leve'. and structure of unit recurrent and investment costs, (ii)'



115 ~    ~        ~ ~ AW    =
Page 4 of 4
Cl/API contributions and possible additionnal Incentives, and (III) the
scope for Increasing efficiency (for instance at the ENlls and through the
introduction of double-shift and multi-grade schooling in the urban and
rural areas, respectively), etcl (b) the qualitative and quantitstive
match between the educationitraining system and demand f rm the labor
market. including fozmli and informal training at all levels, vocational
and apprenticeship training. schooling for girls, etc; and Cc) internal
efficiency and quality. including the causes for the drop-out and repeater
-ate., curriculum and inatructional issues, language of inatruction,
Innovative approaches to teaching, the Impact of various combinations of
pedagogical inputs. etc. Studies and experiments would be financed through
a fund which would be managed by the CUD. Each activity proposed to be
undertaken under the fund would be submitted to IU& for coinmnts.
10.           &M           The Table below  susmarises  the  support to  these
activities. (J.Mj The activity 'Regular Salary fayments", pa.t C under
iavestmnt costs sand part D made: rcwucret costs, refers to Ainaez 3-6.)
045.1995 90 91999 ISO 95~~~~ISol
*  2..11099599191              59~~~~~~~~~~~~1111  259     .90  299                Ii 2424 .                   u Is                  r
S&-ll.ti Ouff1991199 M0 KIn99901                               9999 aI .9 to      449 99465944221 A          154 9
a. muMD
2. 9CMC199191999911No mMm1        2  2  2  I                   I  692 a999992323  -294  2 a229a229 ait414  .  14    9   I         5
%6-10941 $"aing                                                to as1116 3.2 22  -1 24 224a 23.94 40 011 4114  I 1442
A.3Il MD 9uict9s                                         524        .         2   5.5                          g      ~
lo.1etalI 9919in  11191V19pt                                  29. a25. 5344.I5344
1in11199                       .  .  .      94~~~~~~~~~~~~.59... .. .  .. .:..   1.25. 959                   994
so16181 5999    UANNI3. -  -                                            -9- no9354.5 14    *'4 
9995199                                       .  .  .       9.9       .        99 339.          .      .229..5.9...
91999159959             4m       99999              29     59959996             2  129   6  9999.399              95        9 5
999.*9                59959                           29     9999.l541421424            9                                       )
11C9456559199  999Mm59  529 35529  -  .  .  94  2959  .529  244 249   .   UO    9  9        9   99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1011
9o*545*  Tl9992259   9    55  12  3  9   999-44
* 95655111A 499t50                                                                                           :    .    9Mt
19 -4. 9t5141 19559iN                                        5S2 16295209204199 S 352211   99 42259 695241 3  5.2529 
99  *95ms   1995O9 ,
so-1161.1 PElamiw N 99G91991                                  44to  942  .4 94 94   4210 3 99 2 4 02 1219 35 34 I  44
941I95"t U1141                                                32lt  222   2  2   5.9545   5 254 554 . 99  999                9 6
IT. 9-59t o1 iMmO                                               33   22   2.59545454545         9
....~T
UNNSNIG                                    . ._14.~         04   4  4    4        !,   2.   2202    2      4     IS4   0   a



116
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Regular Salary Payments for Civil Service Teachers
1.        Background.  Teacher salary arrears have been a chronic feature
of Chad's education system for the past reveral years. These arrears are
estimated at 2.5 months as of February 1988. This situation has had a
negative impact on the performance of civil service teachers who,
collectively, represent the best qualified teachers in the system. The
effectiveness of these teachers is seriously impaired by their efforts to
be paid, which often consumes several working days a month.
Also, for lack of salary payments, these teachers are not able to meet
their needs, thereby diminishing their ability to play a constructive
role in community life.
2.        Two factors are determinant in this situation: (a) the frequent
absence of liquidities in the regional centers; and, (b) the lengthy and
complicated set of procedures required for payment of civil service
salaries. Factor (a) should be alleviated once the IDA Financial
Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) becomes effective. However, factor (b) will
still be an impediment to timely payment of salaries, especially for
teachers outside of Chari-Baguirmi (N'Djamena). A diagramatic description
of payment procedures is presented in the Appendix to this Annex.
3.        The following points characterize the payment procedures:
(a) they are highly centralized and concentrated in N'Djamena and,
particularly, at the Ministry of Finance. The MEN plays a
marginal role in the procedures. The numerous controls performed
by the Ministry of Finance could be justified by the laxity of
budgetary forecasts where only about 56? of budgeted salary
payments established by MEN car, be justified by financing needs
based on the actual number of civil service teachers;
(b)  they are aimerous and complex, thereby creating undue delays.
For example, every month about sixty employees of a section of
the Finance Ministry (the Service de la Solde) repeat lengthy
procedures, including the manual typing of records for the some
20,000 civil servants; and, recently, a monthly control by the
Controle d'Etat was added to the process which involves nine
different services of the Finance Ministry;
(c) additional time is required for civil servants working in the
provinces, mainly to allow for the transmission of official
documents needed to release payment to the regional authorities.



117
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
4.        Objectives.  The objective of this proposal is to assist the
Government in ensuring regular and timely salary payment to teachers. With
the availability of the FRC, problems of liquidities in the provinces
should no longer be a cause for payment delays. However, procedural
matters could remain u source of delay.
Esoected Outcome.  By ensuring regular and timely payment of all
civil service teachers and MEN personnel, this proposal would eliminate
the need for them to absernt themselves from their duties in quest for
salary payment.
6.        StrateSa. The approach would be two-pronged:
(a) Improving and streamlining the present systea. At the central
level, in the Ministry of Finance, procedures would be lightened
by ths elimination of the intervention of the Controle d'Etat
which could be replaced by occas.onal survey-based
verifications. Also, it would become necessary to provide
computer equipment and training to the 'Serv.ce de la Solde' of
the Finance Ministry in order to automate the work that is
repeated every month (the compiling of lists of some 20,000
agents to be paid) and where a minor typing mistake can develop
into greater complications and delays. This would be accompanied
with an improvement in communications between the Finance
Ministry and the more isolated (because of lack of air service)
provincial authorities by enabling the latter to make monthly
trips to N'Djamena in order to collect the official documents
needed to proceed with salary payments;
(b)  experimenting in two %ones (loundou for the prefecture of Logone
Occidental; Abeche for the prefectures of Ouaddai and Biltine)
with decentralization of procedures.
froceduras would be de_entralized to the level of the
prefecture and MEN would become more active in the payment
procedures concerning its personnel. The diagram below
summarizes the experimental procedures. In order to increase the
chtaces of smooth and efficient operation during the
experimental phase by providing a buffer to alleviate probable
delays during the experimental period, a revolving fund would be
established with a commercial bank in each of the two
experimental zones. Initial endowment of the fund would be the
equivalent of two months salary bill for the prefecture, with
the project and Government supplwing equal amounts to the fund.
An independent monitoring mechan ism, established by the DNPE and
based on tbe regular information gathering work of MEN
inspectors, would report to the DAAFM and the DNPE on the
regularity and timeliness of payments. Preliminary results would
be discussed,. and a                         decision concerning
the generalization, with or without modifications, of the
payment scheme would be taken.



118
PROJET DE SCHENO DECONCENTRE DU PAIENENT              AMX 3-6
DES SALAIRES DES ENSEIGNANTS                 Pago 3 of 4
N
|ENSEIGNIXTS   |                 3C   t6              NO,
3D        COUPTIBLES       I
I 3C                        ,3 PUBLICS 1._.UX   0
BtIIETTEUR  <l_ 1                                      BIL'ETTElfRo 
4                 _ _ _ _-   _ _ _  _
C    D^^FX  i  6^                  |    ~~~~~~~TES ORIER   |C
t  7            v   DIPECTION         A
i DU BUWDET        L 
NIVISTERE EDUCITION           REPRESENTINT           NINISTERE ECONOHIE
&rTIONALE             FOUVOIR CENTRAL         FINANCES INFORXATXQUE
1-li uidation
2-visa du prge-t ou saus-Prfet
3-vis du aoaptablo.aoprovisonneseat at paleanet pmm lo
billetteur
4-r nvoi dox 6tatz et restas & payse au coaptable
S-4oritures coaptables et c.ntralisatioa Dlzeotion du budget
via lo Tisaorier central
6-iaforaation de la D&&FW
7-accord annuel O&AFX. Dirootion du budget
7.       Costs and financing. Estimated costs of the proposal are based
on the assumption of a one year implementation period -  -
(January-December 1989), representing the transition phase needed
for the implementation of new payment methods and procedures. The
experience will be evaluated, after whic-h Government would decide whether
or not to adopt the new payment procedures.
(a) Streasmlning the present system. This would involves
(i) the costs of monthly travel by authorities (receveurs) in
the provinces without regular air service (and. therefore,
without regular mail delivery) to N'Djamena in order to
collect the documentation needed to proceed with salary
payments. At present, this would include authorities in
Bol, Hao, Ati, Bangor, Mongo... The cost of monthly travel,
including subsistence, is estimated at FCFA 500,000;
(ii) the costs of two micro-computers, printers, software,
training and specialist services for the Service de la
Solde of the Ministry of Finance in order to automate the
lists of civil servants to be paid (para 3b).



119
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
(b) Ezperimental procedures.
(i) Revolving fund. The monthly teacher salary bill (at 601 of
nominal salaries) is based on September 1987 estimates as
established in the 'Rapport dc la Mission Relative A la
Paye des Enseignants' (M. Durand & B. MoEttling, February
1988). The estimates are as follows.
I.evel                    Total monthly wage bill ('000 FCFA)
Abeche           Moundou
Elementary teachers                2,989             13,783
Secondary teachers                 1,526            2,763
Administrative personnel           382               677
TOTAL                             4,899              17,223
(ii) The project and Government, each, would deposit 4,899,000
FCFA and 17,223,000 FCFA into accounts in local banks in
Abeche and Houndou, respectively. These funds would be used
for the payment of civil service teachers in the designated
prefectures only when the experimental payment procedures
outlined in the diagram above, and explicated in greater
detail in the 'Rapport de la Mission Relative a la Paye des
Enseignants', are not available in order to ensure timely
salary payments. The funds would be used for the sole
purpose of ensuring timely salary payments and would be
replenished by the Treasury as soon as liquidities have
reached the respective prefectures.
(iii)The proposal also inclu-des financing of a yehicle for each zone and
the incremental costs for the experimental mechanism. This
would include a billeteur and a chauffeur for each zone.
8.        A summary of the costs for this component is found under the
heading 'Regular Salary Payments' (part C under investment costs and part
D under recurrent costs) in the summary Table in Annex 3-5.



120
B:ANN3-7.WP (Chad2)
REPUBLIC CIF CHAD
EDUCATION RERABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
1.       Background.  After several years of managerial difficulties
experienced with the Third Education Project (Cr. 811-CD) due to the absence
of an effective project implemention and coordination unit, the Government
established the National Directorate of Education Projects (DNPE) in the
Ministry of Education. Prior to creation of the DNPE in October 1987,
project implementation was accomplished through the office of the Director-
General. During that period, implementation of the Third Education Project
experienced long and costly delays, largely due to extensive concentration of
managerial and coordination responsibilities in one (under-staffed) office
and the unclear definition of the respective roles of other MEN Directorates.
The functional role of the DNPE within MEN (with respect to other MEN
Directorates, including the Minister's cabinet and the Director-General) has
yet to be clearly defined. The forthcoming organization and methods (O&M)
study of MEN should contribute to a clarification the situstion.
2.       Obiectives.  The main objective is to ensure that adequate
institutional and administrative arrangements are made to ensure successful
implementation of the project within five years, taking fully into account
the evolving institutional situation at MEN as it awaits decisions based on
the forthcoming O&M. Intermediate objectives are: (a) supporting the
Government's institution building policy; (b) placing project management at a
sufficiently high and independent level in MEN's structure to ensure adequate
status to provide coordination within the Ministry; (c) developing a critical
mass of technical competency that can be used efficiently (for implementation
and training) by relevant MEN departments while developing their capacities
to assume full responsibility for components falling under their departments;
and (d) serving as liaison between IDA, the Government and the relovant MEN
directorates charged with implementation of the various components of the
project.
3.       Approach/strategv. To this end, the coordination responsibility for
this project would be assumed by the DNPE with the responsibility for
individual project components decentralized to the concerned directorates and
institutes of the MEN.
4.       Functions.  With responsibility for overall supervision and guidance
of project implementation, the project director would oversee the
coordination of all project activities, including liaison with the different
units of MEN, and would serve as the direct contact point between the
Government and IDA. More specifically, the DNPE would:



ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 7
121
(a) assist each Directorate and the INSE in the monitoring of
project activities and the preparation of detailed annual work
programs and budgets for the implementation of each project
component;
(b) prepare all necessary documentation for the annual review of
the work programs, including sector policy and budget matters,
made jointly by the Government and IDA, and act as the
secretariat of the Government's "Cellule de Reflexion sur le
Developpement de l'Education";
(c) coordinate all aspects of project implementation with the
relevant MEN entities;
(d) ensure that those responsible for each component carry out
their functions effectively and efficiently;
(e) supervise the preparation of bidding documents and handle the
procurement of goods and specialist services in line with IDA
guidelines;
(f) plan and carry out all procurement functions, and ensure that
goods and services procured under the project are delivered to
their destinations and utilized adequately;
(g)  arrange for the recruitment of personnel and specialists
required by the project;
(h) monitor and administer the specialist service contracts for
both qualitative and quantitative conformity with contract
obligations (short-term as well as long-ternm) and
training/fellowship programs (local and abroad);
(i) monitor the satisfactory flow of funds for the project
components, including in-kind contributions from the CI/APEs;
(j) prepare and maintain all project accounts, following accepted
accounting formats and procedures;
(k) prepare all necessary documents for withdrawal of funds from
the local project accounts (Special Account, regional accounts
for operating expenditures of the CAPRe and for submission of
withdrawal application to IDA;
(1) arrange for annual audits of all project accounts by auditors
selected following IDA guidelines and ensure that such audit
reports are fowarded to IDA within six months after the end of
each fiscal year;
(m) keep records, including financial records of the project, and
submit to IDA (i) semi-annual progreas reports on



ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 7
122
project implementation and (ii) a completion report no later
than six months after completion of the project; and,
(n) arrange for the preparation of future projects.
5        Means.  In order to carry out its respinsibilities, the DNPE will
bo st*Cfed with the following presonnel, all adequately qualified and
.xp.riencsJ 
Ruvconsible staff        Status       Functions
(-'   a full-time Director             local        project management
(b)   an  tinarsec/manager             oreign      assistsat to (a),
especially for
financial management
and monitoring
(c)   pedaC-oggical coordinator        foreign      assistant Oo (a)
for qualitative and
pedagogical aspects,
(d)   a procuremtnt specialist         local        procurement
(e)   an accountant                    local        accounting
(f)   support staff                     local       3 typists, 2
chauffeurs, 2
orderlies
Additional support staff would be provided on a needs basis by current
civil servants of MEN. In addition, the project would finance the
following specialist servicos (short-term consultants) to assist the DNPE
in is specific areast
Profile specialist        Status       Duration
(a)   auditors                         foreign        7.5 mlm
(b)   procurement specialists          foreign        6  mlm
(c)   review conmitteo members         local         12  mlm
(d)   short-term specialists
for futuro project preparation   foreign       24   m/m
Also, the project makes provision fort  (a) mlnor office building repairs
snd the necessary office equipment; (b) transport and operating costs for
the DNPE during project implementation; (c) 14 munweeks participation of
regional representatives at annual meetings to examine the monitoring
reports of the past yoer'. implementation and prepare the joint annual
reviews that will determine the subsequent year's Implementation plan; and
(d) 6 manmonthe training abroad in project management and two study visits
to other project units in the region.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of7
123
6.       Sumarv of Operational Responsibility by Proiect Component.
Proiect Component                 Operational
Responsibility    Remarks
1.  Rehabilitation of Primary
Education
(a) Support to CIIAPEs for school
reconstructionlrenovation         DNPEICAPR/IPEE         with SPC
(b) Textbooks and pedagogical
materials                         DNPEIDEE/IPEEIINSE
(c)  Teacher training                  INSE                    for Imple implemen-
tation
DEE                    for monitoring
(d)  Teacher supervision/              DEEIIPEE
support
2.  Rehabilitation of sectoral
Manatement Ilanninpt
(a)  0&                               DGIDAAFM
(b) Personnel management and budget
preparation                       DAAM
(c)  Planning                          SPC
(d)  Policy development                DGICED
(e) Project implementation and
management                        DNPE
CAPR          Centre d'appui au programne regional
CED           Council for Educational Development
DAAM          Direction des affaires administratives, financieres et du
mat&riel
DEE           Direction d'enseignement ;lementaire
DG            Direction genorale
DNPE          Direction nationale des projets d'education
IPEE          Inspection principale d'ensaignement elementaire
SPC           Service de planification et de construction
7.       Cost.  Table 1 provides a summary of the costs financed under the
project for this component.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 7
124
Projet de Rehabilitation de l'Education
TCHAD
Termes de Reference
I.     Coordinateur pidaaozioue
Risponsibilit;s X;nirales:    Coordination at suivi des activitis
pidagogiques du projet, y compris
elaboration d'un cadre strategique,
suivi de la mise en placo du cadre de
politique sectorielle, et formation du
personnel national.
Lieut                         N'Djamena avec deplacements dans lo
pays.
Duree:                        5 annees
Date do prise de fonctionst  Entr;e en rigueur du cr;dit.
Sous la responsabiliti generale de la Direction des Projets, at en
liaison etroite avec la Direction Ginerale at les Directions Techniques
concernnes, le Coordinateur pidagogiques
1.  Veille * co que lea activit;s qualitativeo du projet soient
orient-es vers la poursuite des objoctifs formulie dans la
description do chaque composante (politique sectorielle,
qualiti);
2.  Appuie la Cellule de rifl-xion sur le Doveloppoment de
l'Education dans sea travaux *; notamment l'organisation de la
Table Rondo, puis l'identification at i realisation dos itudes ou
experiences pilot-s financees par le projat;
3.   Veille i la preparation des documents requis et a la mise en
oeuvre des mosures prevues dans le cadre do politique
s*ctori-ll-;
4.  Assure la coordination, 1- bon diroulement, a lovaluat.'n at le
suivi des activites pedagogiques du projet (manuels, formation,
supervision) selon le calondrier at dens los conditions prvus;
5.   Contribue a l'olaboration des rapports interimaires d'activites
et du document do preparation ; l'oxamen anuul conjoint
Gouvernement IDA; y compris le bilan des activitis de l'annie
ecoulie et un plan d'activitis pour l'annie ; venir;
6.   Consacre au moins 252 do son temps a la formation d'homologues
Tchadiennes en cours d'emploi at aux appuis at conseils
techniques aux directions rosponsables de ll'xecution des
diff-rents composantis du projet.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 7
125
7.   Formule des avis sur la selection des specialistes et consultants
devant intervenir dans le projet dans ses domaines de
competances;
8.   Formula des avis sur 1- s;lection des candidats a des bourses
financ'ees par le projet dans sea domaines de competences.
Qualifications:
- Etudes superieures en science de l'education et en planification.
- Exp;rience de l'education et de sa gestion.
- Sens des contacts humains
- Excellente maltrise du Fran$ais.



cgwcaIIm  611EN8h1311Ct  it     CI
fabl. 22  POfCI D0I81CI6fT6
f0tstl.d Cut labl.
lUCFA 111iftio
ft'amela,s
b_nllly                                                Bass Coal$                                  lls$  Cosis  n S
uttl      ;Sft 1;3O tti 11t12  MI9  11114 lotal  ltnst Cost  It"   191 SO;9    1192  I111  1114 totl   1989  1930  19S I  I"9   1113  1994 t lo.    Ilae'  L.ch    8.1.   fSco.mI
~..........     . .,,    ,, ......
1. IUlt8181tt  C13SIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (13
tI 1MCl811$lS SIIVICiS
I  PIOCI AI3iISIR*IUt               108I  it8*           I    I    I    I            4        38 7       -  38 7  31 7  38    367           IS- 4a        133 41334 3 334133 4              5331*       0                 0       la
2  t16(AI816  S11CI8IISI            tS  TE1      I S     I    I    I    I    -    S            39S6   59.4  n 6  39 6  3  6  396            21?8  204 813365 13t S 13E 51365 7S00I                      0      I          0       t8
3 SCtiOtO CttSIUIIOIC       D CiO     NMI"          I    I    I    I    I             5      088?   20    20 9  20 9  20    209             1044   72 0  2 0720  720720                      30         0      1          0       It
4. 018N1  /a                        no  swItt      3    3    6           1     -    34          3.3    9 9   9 9  19 8  330  39 6           1122   34 1  34 1 U  3 113 A 136 5               389I       0      I          0       It
Sh-IoI.  S1MCl8lIISI 193CtS                                                                               10 2 109 I ItS 0 132 2138a8          089   3109  376 0412 4557 476 4                2 031 1
a  ruisimol
l. MAIM1 NSG61i883                  Sfttiit       I.      ..I                                2 75 i   26                                     28    9 9                                       90        0      0          0       Ia
2 51818          I   _$8   IAttt4.dO I  I6I 6E8     -   14   14   14   14           56       0025             0 3 0.3   0303                  14             3 2     2   I2   17               47       0      0          0       to
3. Sim                  VISITS        visit         I    I    I    I    I    -       S            I    I 0 101.0   10 10                      S0      34   34 34   34    34                   IF2       a      I          0      Itl
4  _tftttll NI881  1111 01         s1oMIN   1. S  1     I    I    I    -                       09      1 4   1      0 9   09   09            S4    4 7   4 7             3 I 1   3t1         16        a      I          0 o    fi
Sub Iola# I Iti8S 1 I   2 7   2.2   2 2 2 2                                                                                                     14 0 5  7 6   9 3       7   7 7 7   7           b0 I
C WIIICkfS                                MTl          3          -          -    -      4           6 18 0         -          6 0              24 0   620        -         207             -    827    01         1         0      WIN
lot1 l I8KStIII costs IS                                                                                    13   oi18 121 2 140 4 MI;  0          627 a  390 S 380 3 4V  S 484   *86 ;           2. 163 9
11  itfttl"tft tOStS
It 8118811 CSISTO
I tC8ttliol1ct ft                   WEAK         I    I        I I    I            S      13 675   13 7  13. 7  13 7  13     13 7         6884   47  47 1 4' 1 47 147 1                   2397   0 1   0 8             0       DC
3  It0 ic8t S11M9i  Ic                                                                                0 9  090909                0 9         4 S    3 1   3 1   1 1   3 1   31               S S    e 1           0             K o   D
3.J llSllIC1t  Sti   /d                                                                               6 0   6 0  6 0   6 0 6 0    -30 0   20 7  20 720 7 ?0 7?0 1                           1034    0 1   0 8            0      O                (.2
4  S101115 IS8t  /I                KR 7lfS        I    I    I    I    I             5         *       4 8 a        4      * 4    *48        240   16 S  16 5  ir3    16 S 65                8217       a                 0       [ a'
S  lol6 l 819S11II68                                                                                    25 4 25 4 4 S 42 9          4  *       269    670  675  80   870 5t70 5                4373
Iola$ tfltftl tOSIS                                                                                         25 4 24 *  29 4  20 420  4            126S   89  87S  8            8 a 79   870 S      t 4 3
lotal                                                                                                        ;38; ;37?;;;;6S 8 ;66;                7S6  ;    0 ;2850 4               S 3 ;;;t     2. t01t
.. ....... ................... ..............   .....   ,:  ::.  ,  ::,,,,,,,,,,.,,,.,,,,,.,,,,.: ,
/a  fOt Avast. tUU       ;t911     S61 t. AND pup9 0f fOtt4 ttP Itl8C ttlCl
A   $8088111          i..',..
lbtttl S    StiI  S
id  ltl me ttOitll88Cl
I.  t68 so6   C6llIN1ICS c068
...............    .......    .................. ............... ............   ...........   .....   .     . ..............    ..... ... .....    ..     . ......   .....    .  .     ...........     .....    .....  ..   .    ....    ... ...
* 3?. 11s8  It. 48
tI
, 0*
,-J



127
B:COFAN3-8.WP (Chad2)                                       ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1.          Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs are based on February
1988 prices, using the May 1988 exchange rate of US$1.00 - FCFA 290.1. Cost
estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles have been
derived from reviews carried out by the Unesco 1reparation mission and are
based on quotations received under the IDA Third Education Project and other
similar Government projects, notably the primary school construction project
financed by SwissAid. With the exception of the four specialist coordinators
(for each one of the Regional Support Centers) recruited through the AFVP,
the average cost per month of internationally recruited specialist services
is estimated at $12,000 and includes salary/fee, overhead, travel and
subsistence. Scholarships abroad are costed at US$2,000 per manmonth. The
costs of locally recruited specialists and consultants, together with the
costing of locally arranged seminars, are based on estimates arrived at in
consultation with national authorities and similar activities financed under
other projects (FAC, UNDP, Third Education Project).
2.          Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of the Project is US$19.2 million 76Z of the total project cost),
and is the result of the following mission-estimated foreign exchange
percentages for the individual categories of expenditures:
Civil Works                                    50%
Imported Building Materials                   1001
Community Inputs                                 0%
Furniture                                      90%
Equipment, materials and vehicles              1002
Internationally recruited specialists         100%
Overseas fellowaslips                          1001
Local training and administration              30%
3.          Customs, Duties and Taxes   All items specifically Imported for
the project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the project would be exempt from
taxes and duties.
4.          Continmencv Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 101 has been
added to the base cost for all items except technical assistance and
training, which have no physical contingencies. Price increases from the
base cost date (February 1988) have been applied in accordance with the
Implementation schedule shown in Annex 3-9 at the following rates:



128
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 5
1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
Foreign     5         5         5          5         5
Local       5         5         5          5         5
Price increases are based on estimated annual increases, past
experience and mission projections. At these rates, total physical
contingencies are estimated at US$1.4 million and price contingencies at
US$2.7 million.
5.   Prolect Cost and Financint.   Table 1 shows the project cost by category
of expenditure and project component. Tables 2 and 3 show the financing plan
by component and category of expenditure, respectively; and table 4 shows the
project costs by category of expenditure and local and foreign costs.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Catetory                      Amount                 S
1. Civil works contracts              5.6            100l  (of expenditures)
2. Furniture and non
pedagogical equipment              2.8            1001 (of expenditures)
3. Pedagogical materials              2.8            100l  (of expenditures)
4. Specialist services                3.5            1OOZ (of expenditures)
5. Training and fellowslips           2.4            1001 (of expenditures)
6. Operating costs                    2.3            85S  (of expenditures)
7. Study Fund                         0.3            10OZ (of expenditures)
8. PPF                                0.575
9. Unallocated                        1.725
TOTAL                   22.0



CKAD
EDUCATION RENA8ILITATION PROJECT
Stiry Account by ProJect Compoent
IFCfA Millionl
REHA6ILITATION OF PRIIMRY EDUCATION
SUPPORT TO COMMNNITY INITIATIVES
--------------------------------        QUAIITATIVE IMPROVEMENTS          REAU8ILITATION Of SECTOR
CONSTRUCT1ONI /                 -----------------------------------    MANIAGENENT AND PLANNING                   Physical
REHABILITATION OF                 TEXTBOOKS                             ---------------------------              Contingencies
SIOUT 100t        SCHOOL      SO TEACHER TRAINING OF   TEACHER    STRINGTHENING Of    PROJECT                 -------------
CLASSROOMlS /a    MAINTENCE    SUIDES       TEACHERS   SUPERVISION   NHE CAPACITIES   DIRECTORATE  Total         S    hount                I
1. INVEST1ENT COSTS
A. CIVIL HORKS
1. CIVIL HORKS CONTRACTS                                             207.S         150.0             -        42.6        40.6                  -             -    441.0   10.0    44. 1
2. ILOL  MTERIAtS                                                   1, 080. 0          -                                                         -            -  1.080.0   10.0  108. 0
3. CONNIUNITY INPUTS                                                 280.0             -             -           -            -                  -            -    280.0   10.0    28.0
Sub-lotal CIVIL HORKS                                                  1,567.8        150.0             -        42.6         40.6                  -            -  1.801.0   10.0  180. I
B. FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
1. FURKITURE                                                         308.0             -             -           -            -               5.0             -    313.0   10.0    31.3
2. NON - PEDAGOGICAL EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                           10.4          6.0             -         5.5        201.3              65.3             -    28.5   10.0    28.9
3. VEHICLES                                                           74.8                                    2 --                            14.9         24.0    139.7   10.0    14. 0
Sub-Total FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                                        393.2          6.0             -        S 5         201.3               85.2         24.0    741.2   10.0    74.1
C. PEDAGOGICAL MATERIALS
1. TEXTBEOOS AND IEACHER GUIDES                                           -            -        742.2            -            -                 -             -    742.2   10.0    74.2
2. PEDAGOGICAL EQUIPMENT . SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS                       8.0          2.2                      24. 7                                                  34.9   10.0     3.5
Sub-Total PEDAGOGICAL MATERIALS                                            8.0          2.2         742.2        24.7            -                  -            -    777. 1   10.0    77.7
0. TRAINING
;. FELLONSHIPS                                                            -            -           1. 1       73.2            -              28.8          10.4    113.5    0.0      .0
2. LOCAL TRAINING                                                       0.5         17. 6                    50312         80.5              27.9           4. 1    633.8    0. 0    0. 0
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                         0.5         17.6           1. 1      576.4         80.5               56.7          14.5    747.3    0. 0    0. 0
E. SPECIALIST SERVICES
1. INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED SPECIALISTS                              258.0            -          19.8        45.0            -             210.3         613.2  1.046.3    0.0      0.0
2. VOLtUTEERS                                                         165.0            -             -           -            -                  -            -    165.0    0.       0 O. 0
3. LOCAL SPECIAIST CONTRACTS                                          129.8            -             -            -           -                  -            -    129.8    0.0      0.0
Sub-Total SPECIALIST SERVICES                                            452.5            -          19.8        45.0            -              210.3        613.2  1,341. 1   0.0      0.0
F. OPERAIING EXPENSES                                                    147.4            -             -        57.3        312.4              103.5        102.9    723.4   10.0    72.3
total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    2. 569. 7       175.8        763. t      777. 5       534.8              455. 7       754.8  6, 131.2    .6   404. 3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       2. 569. 7       175.8        763. 1      777.5        634.8              455.7        754.6  6. 131. 2    6.6   404.3
Physical Contingncios                                                     212.6         25.8          74.2         25.6        55.4               18.9          12.7    404.3    0.0     0.0
Price Contingecies                                                        424.5         2i. 6         43.2        86.5         63. 7              39. t        106 4    777.0    6.     47.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        3.195.8        215.2         880.5       879.5        754.0              513.6        873.7  7.312.4    5.2   451.7
=:::::::::::::::::: ~     =-z=.== ===::::::  :::::::  ::::::  ::==:::::::::::-=:=:c::-==
Foreign Exchange                                                       2, 483.7        202. 4        880.5       223.8        564. 3             459.0        843.6  5.557. 3    6. 7   374.2
Aue 27, 19U8  18: 46
O I



CHltD
EDUCATION REHASILITATION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Cporwnts
(US$ I 0001
INTER4AT4IONAL
DEVELLOPiENT     COIUWNITY    GOVERillEHI  Of
ASSOCIAIION    INITIATIVES         CHAD            Total                     Local
-  - ---- ---- - - - ------ - -Exc i.   Duties 8
wxunt    I    biowit   %       Aount   %       tWount    %    for. Exch.  lax*%)    laxm
A. REHABIIIATION Of PRINURY EDUCATION
1. SUPPORT 10 C04ITlY 114111811VES
CO!4STRUC110! / REH48tL4IAT14 OF ABOUT 1000 CLASSROOMS  /a             8,517.8  77.3  1,758.9 15.0       739.6  6.7  11.016.3  43.7       8.561.4  2.454.9
SCHOOL MAINTENANCE                                                       741. 9 100.0        --                          741.9   2. 9       353. 0    388. 8
Sub-Total SUPPORT 10 COiUUNITY INITIATIVES                                9.259.6  78.8  1,758.9 15.0       739.6  6.3  11.758.2  45.6       8.914.4  2,843.7
2.  UtAlITATIVE IlPSOVENENTS
TEXTB8OKS AND TEACHER GUIDES                                           3. 035. 3 100.0       -    -          -    -   3. 035.3  12.0      3. 035.3        -
TRAINING Of IEACHEPS                                                   2.710.4  89.4         -    -      321.5 10.6   3 031.9  12.0         771.6  2.260.3
IEACHER SUPERVISION                                                    2.396.7  92.2                     202.4  7.8   2 599 .0  10. 3     1. 945.2    653.9
Sub-Total QU4AIIAIVE IMPROVEiEiNTS                                       8. 142. 4  94.0       -    -      523.8  6. 0   8. 66. 2  34.4     5,752.0  2. 914. 1
Sub-Total REHA8titAl4iON Of PRIMARY EOUCAFION                               17.402.0  85.2  1.758.9  8.6   1.263.4  6.2  20.424.4  81 0    14.666.5  5,757.9
B. REHA8tILIIAiO4 OF SECIOR UMANGEMENT AND PLANNING
1. SFR4GIHLENING Of MEN CAPACIIIES                                        1.676.8  94.7               -      93.8  5.3   1.770.6   7 0       1.582. I    188.5
2. PROJECT DIRECTORATE                                                    2 945.4  97. 8              -      66. 3  2. 2   3.011.7 1t .9     2 908.1    103.6
Sub-Total REHAI^ITATION Of SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING                   4.622.2  96.7          -    -     160.0  3.3   4,782.3  19 0       4.490.2    292 t
Total Oisburse_nt                                                             22.024.2  87 4  1t758. 9  7.0  1. 423.5  5. 6  25,206.6 100t.     19. 156.7  6. 050.0
/a  AVERAGE: 3 CLASSROOMS PER SCHOOL                                                                                                                                                                            
June 27. 1988  18:46
CHAD
EDUCA4ION REHA8ILIIATION PROJECT
Financing Plan By Disbursamnt  Category
(US$ '0001
INTERNAitIONAL
OEVEtOPMENT       COWitNITtY    GOVERNMENT Of
ASSOCIATION      INITIATIVES        CHAD            Total                     Local
- ------           -   ------ ------ -   --- -      - -   ------ -   - - - - - - - - - - - ---  lExc lI.  Duties   a
Amunt    V    Amount    I    Amount    I        Amount    I    for. Exch.  Taesl    Taxes
A. CIVIL iOR%tS                             6.117.8  92.1    527.7   7.9        0.0   0.0   6,645.5  26.4       5.697.3    940.2
B. COFMUNITY INPUTS                                -     -  1, 231.2 100.0         -     -   1, 231.2   4. 9           -  1, 231.2         -
C. FURNtIURE AND EtUIPMENT                  3.054.3 100.0                -         -     -   3,054.3  12.1      2.917. 1    137.1          -
D. PEDAGOGICAI MATERIALS                    3,096. 0 100. 0                        -         3, 096. 0  12. 3    3. 096. 0
C. INTERNATIONAL TECHNICAt ASSISFANCE       4,072.3 100.0                     -          -   4,072.3  16.2      4,072.3          -         -
F. VP VOLUNTEERS                                   -     -         -     -    644.3 100.0      644.3   2.6         644.3        -
G. LOCAL CONtRACTS                            506.8 100.0          -     -         -     -     506.8   2.0             -    506.8
H. FEtLONSHIPS                                 165. 1 36.7         -     -    284.8  63.3      450.0   1.8         250.6    199.4          -
1. LOCAt TRAINING                           2.407.4 100.0          -     -               -   2,407.4   9. 6            - 2, 407.4          -
J. OPERATING EXPENSES                       2,604.5  84.0          -     -    494.4  16.0   3.098.8  12.3       2.479. 1    619.8          -
lotal Disbursemnt                            22.024.2  87.4  1,758.9   7.0  1.423.5   5.6  25.206 6 100.0    19.156.7  6,050.0               -41
Juim  27. 1988  18:46                                                                                            -



CHA0
tWUC811AtI  RtH8lt81AII14 PRDO.lCI
SuIARr ACCOUtIS COST SUIIARY
UICIA Nit ont                 LUSt  0001                        1 total
,....    ..    .. .......    .    .  .   ..    ...    ...... .   -   -- .     I     Foreign  Baso
local  toreign Total       Local  foreign   lolal    Exchange    Costs
1. I1VES1IN4I COStS
A. Civil WORKS
I. CIVIl WORKS CONIRACIS                                   220.5   220.5   441 0    760.1    760.1  1.520 2               50         7
2. 8tDC 1141ERIALS                                                 1,080. 01.080. 0            3,722.9  3. 722. 9        100        18
3. COtU41Y INPUTS                                           280.0            280.0    965. 2               965 2                     5
Shb Total CIVII NORMS                                          500 5 1.3005 1.801 0  1.725 3  4,482.9  6.208 2               72        29
B. IUR141UtL4E AO EQUIPltLtI
1. FU6IIIIURI                                               31.3   281.7   313 0    107.9    971 0  1.078 9               Y0         5
2  N06   PtDCGOGCAI  kOUIP4iN4I 60 KAIERlAS                     -   288.5   288 5               994 6    994 6          100         5
3. VEHICtkS                                                          139.7   139.1               451 6    481 6          tOO         2
Sub total FUtN11URt AND EQUIPNENT                               31.3   709.9   741 2    107 9  2,447 2  2.555 I              96        12
C. PEDOAGOICAL NAtERIAtS
I   LEXEBOOMS 6D TEACHER GUIDES                                    742 2   742 2             2.558 5  2.558 S           100        12
2. PLtAl ICAlt tQUIPIILNI , SUPPIliS AND NAltRiAtS                    34.9    34 9               120 3    120 3          100         I
Sub lotal PtUAGOGICAL  AItERI1LS                                    -   777 I   777.1          -  2.678 8  2.678 8           100       13
0  IRAINING
1. fEIOHSHIiPS                                              48 7    64.8   113.5    167 9    223 3    391 2               57         2
2. LOCAlt IRAINING                                          633 8        -   633.8  2. 18. 7          -  2, 184 7                   10
Sub-Total IRAINING                                             682.5    64.8   747.3  2.352 6    223 3  2,575 9                9        12
E. SPECIAl iSI StRVICtS E
..........   ................
I  INTERNAIIONAtlY RECRUIIED SPECIALISTS                        - 1.046 3 1.046 3             3.606 8  3,606 8           too        17
2. VOLUNIEERS                                                   - 16  0   165 0                  568.8    5 38           100         3
3. LOCAI SPECIAtISI COTIRACTS                               129 8        -   129.8    447 4           -    447 4                     2
Sub-lolal SPECIA1ISI SERVICES                                  129 8 1.211 3 ;.341 1    447 4  4.175 6  4.b23 0              90        22
f. OPERAIICG E3PENSES                                          144 7   578. 7   723 4    498. 7  i 995.0  2,493 7            80        12
lotal BASEIl4E COStS                                             1.488 8 4.642.4 6.131.2  5. 131.9 16,002 8 21.134 7              76       100
Physical Contingencies                                           57 6   336.6   404 3    233 2  1. 160 4  1.393 6             83         7
Price Contierncies                                              198 7   578 3   777 0    684 8  _I993 5  2,678 3              74        12
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               1.755 1 5.557 3 7.312 4  6.050 0 19.156 7 25.206 6              76       119
June 27. 1988  18 46
01



ECUCATIW   C T     AMLIIO  PIJC
Comylem~ 111"IIIA10  F" D C
IwLtUS NTATION SCIEDIAE
UEIITATo o Pimar ED                      c  It"           CY 1             cY  99           CY Iot           CT  m            ch i9a
A. SUpeeot to community lltletivee  JFI AJ JS 00  JFM AMJ J*S OND  JFIU A31.JS OM* D 1F1 AMJ JAS SO  JFM AMJ JAS 0O  JHM A1j JA3 01
-CIVIt varks                              ;pp PPP  PPP mP P X xxx   xxx x       xx xx Ix  Xxx x  XX XI   m    Xm   XXX xxx Xx xX  Xx
-furniture a office equipment             PPP m    oo xxx
-wrk shop eq.                            PPP 88  000 XXX
-vehielse                                 PS'P 888k 000 XXX
-technical nelatance                E EEE              EEE EEE EEE EEE EF EEE EE EEE EE EU EEE
-trolali m  TT I?T lIM m                                           T mT  mnTT mTT TT TI mm   tTT mmm
-SdIminitration                           AM MA  MA MA AM AM   AM AA "A  MA  AM AA AA AA  AM AA AM AM  AM AM AA AM
E. Improvlng Loarning Proe
-books                                    PPP a8t 000 XXX           XXX
-teachlg materials                                     PPPm 88000  Xce        m               m       XXX
C. Improving Toeching Procesa
-vehicles                                  mP  8    000 XXX             XXX              xx                        XX        rX
-material                                 Pm  Be  000 XXX
.ftlloshipa                                                                   F FP  PT? Fm m   F mP  mFF FTP
-expert sorvlces                          EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EU  EE  EU
iTT TT TTT m     T? m m TTT m m m Ti? Tm ? Tm? T m   mI m m TTT
-Ministratlon                                      AAA AAM AAA AAA AAA AA   A AAA AAA AAA AA   A  MAAA AAA AAA MA AA  AAA AAA
O Iproving Suporvieion
-efftie equipmnt                         PmS m80   CCC xx
-books                                   P  BBm   eoo m
Vehicles                                 mP Be8   000 xxx
-material                                P11  m    000 xxx              xxx
-trafhning                                    T mmmm  mI  m TTM   mm mT TT
-administration                              AAA  AAA AM  AM A  AM MA AM MAA AM AM AM A AAA MA AMAA
UIA8ILITATION OF SECtOR
A. MInagomnt
-eofice equpment                         mP Bon     e 000 X
-felloshipe                                        FmmPF    FFF  PP?TFm Fmm      F         Fm    mF     FFm     TP   FmFT?  FFmFmF   FmF
-export servie.                          EEE EEE  E                 E                E                E
-training                                          mTm   Ti?m lt???  Tm
-diistration                             AM A    AAA AAA AMA AAA  A       A  A AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA  .A AAA
S. Educettonal Planling
-offlce q"Ipment
-fmrnittur                                ?" m     000 Xm
-vehicle.s                                mP  88   000 m
-matribls                                          000 xxx              xxx              X
-fellovships                                       FFFT F?   F FFF  mT? mT?   F FFF Fm P FTP   P PIT  PPF FTP   F FFT Fm  P FTP   P FmP
-expert services                              EE  ECE          EE  EEl          EE  EE E           EE  EEE         EEE  EE
-traliuing                                         nTT m            m   m
-administration                           AMA MAAA AAA   A  AAA     A   AAA AA A AA    M A A    AAA AAA AAA   MA AAA    AM  "A
C. Policy Devlopment
-expert *rviceo                           EEE ECE   EEE EEE    ElfEE EEE        EEE EE  EE E   E EE EEE    EEE
-troining                                          TTT              Tm?
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. Central Office
-adminaltration                           AA AAA  AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA A   AM  AA  AAA MA   AM AM AM AM    A AMA
D. Technical Avistamne
-export service.                          EE EEE  EE EEE EEE EEE EUE EEE EEE EE       EEE EEE eE ElE  EUE E
C. Technical A Logistital Support
- hlsls~~~~~~~~~~p m   cs oo mx
-e initrution                Mx AM AM  AAA AAA AAAM   AAM   A A" AAM    A AM AM  AM  AAA AA   A AAA AMA AA
0. Profesilonal Servlce.
-expert services                                               EEE                               ElE               E        EEE 
A a Adminietration/Operatlo
P*rv islon of Expert SUervice
P * Ongoing Fellowsh!pw
e a Coverm_nt/1DA Roview
P a Preeratie. of Plans, Lit *nd Sldding Documents 
X  t Training
X *Cemetructise, lNeamfacturing end Dolivery ef Form, Equipments Materials, ste.



i33
BsSUL&3-10.WP (Chad3)                                          ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIQUE DU TCRAD
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
DISPOSITIF DE SUIVI
1.    Justification.  En plus des justifications classiques d'un syst6me
de suivi (la bonne gestion et le retour d'information nec6ssaire pour
faire des rectificatifs en cours de rdalisation) le montage rapide du
Projet fait en sorts qu'il ost particulierement difficile de prAvoir le
cours d6taillb du Projet au d6la de sa primi6re ann*e.  Un mOcanisme
Sermettant de privoir avec pr6cision, les activites A financer devient
alors n6cessaire. Ce mAcanisme tiendra compte des activitAs programmies et
r6alisAes d'une anrie 'n' du Projet afin de programmer celles pour l'ann6e
'n+l'. Une telle programmation annuelle sert a (i) 6valuer et justifier
les ressources financiares necassaires pour chaque ann6e du Projet, (ii)
6tablir une base rationnelle et transparente pour suivre et gerer
1'Avolution des r6alisations, (iii) orienter la mise en place des
dispositifs organisationels (ressources humaines et logistiques,
affectations et disponibilit6s du personnel, calendrier) du HEN en
fonction des activitas. & exzcuter et, (iv) justifier aupr6s de la Banque
Mondiale des versements semi-annuels au compte du Projet plutOt que par
les proc6dures habituelles de versemonts sur facture.
2.   Obiectif.  Le dispositif de suivi (DS) qui sera integr& dan. le
Projet est conCu dans un triple objectif:
(i) en tant qu'outil de programmation et de gestion des activitAs
afin de (a) rectifier le tir en cours de route lorsque cela s'av6re
opportun A la lumiere de l'ezpArience, et (b) am6liorer la gestion
des activit6s pour que le Projet puisse Otre ezAcut6 de maniere plus
officace et fournir de meilleurs resultats dans le cadre des delais
et des financemants prevus;
(ii) faire le point des activit6s r6alis6ss en l'an 'n' du Projet
afin d'Atablir le Program D6taill des Activitas Annuelles (PDAA) A
financer pour l'an 'n+l' et, donc, justifier un mhcanisme de
financement par versements p6riodiques au Compte Sp6cial. Chaque PDAA
servira, de base pour le suivi des activites;
(iii) faciliter des audits annuals des programme dactivites privus
et financAs du Projet.
3.   MAcanisme et organisation.  Le mecanisme et la form. prAcis du DS
pourront varier selon la composante. NMazoins, l'organisation du DS sera
la meme pour co qui concerne toutes les composantes. Ceci se justifie par
le fait que le priucipe de base de tout DS est la structure des flux
d'informations. Pour le cas du Projet de Rehabilitation de l'Education,
ce flux est repr6sente par le diagramme ci-dessous ott l'on voit le flux
des informations (quantitatives et qualitatives) du lieu d'esecution



134                                ANNEX 3-10
jusqu'a la Direction Nationale des Projets d'Education (DNPE) qui devra
pouvoir etablir un bilan des activit6s r6alis#es a la fin de chaque ann#e
du Projet, vers les mois de juillet-aodt.
I.   Collecte continue des informations sur les lieux d'execution:
(a) pour la rehabilitation physiques
-les Inspections Principales/Centres d'appui, IEE, APE
(b) pour la formation, la supervision et llencadrement
-les IEE, ENI, CRFC
(c) pour les materiels didactiques et p6dagogiques
-les IP, IEE, l'INSE
(d) pour la planification et la gestion
-la DAAFM et le Service de Planification
(e) pour les 6tudes, recherches orient6es et prograumw   ;ilotes
-la Cellule de R#fltxion
(f) pour l'volution de la politique educative
-le MEN (Cabinet), indicateurs d96volution
II. Transmission des informations a la DNPE.
III. Analyse des informations a la DNPE par l'quipe (administrateur-
gestionnaire, specialiste en 6ducation) chargee de la coordination des
aspets techniques des activites du Projet et du suivi.  Cette analyse sera
faite en se r6ferant au PDAA et en consultation *troite avec les services
concernes du MEN.
IVa.  Au courant de l'ann6e, refluix dinformatiou (feedback) de la DNPE
vers les lieux d'ex6cution (inspections, APE) avec (i) analyse et conseils
pour am6liorer l'ex6cution, (ii) modification, si necessaire, d'aspects
des interventions, et/ou (iii) ressources suppl.mentaires/compl6mentaires.
IVb.  A la fin de l1ann6e, vers juillet de l'an 'n', la DNPE etabli le
bilan des activit6s r6alis6es au courant de l'ann6e ('n'). Ce bilan
servira de base pour (i) l'&laboration du PDAA pour l'an 'n + 1' qui sera
discut6 avec une mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale qui tiendra
avec le Governement une revue annuelle du projet, et (ii) pour les audits
annuel du Projet. L'approbation sera obtenue pour le financement du
programme pour l'an 'n + 1' & la suite de la mission de supervision
(octobre-novembre)



135                                  ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 3
4.   Informations contenues dans le PDAA.  Le PDAM prendra la forme d'une
fiche pour chaque composante du Projet qui contiendra toutes lee
informations concernant l'aexcution de la composante au cours de l'ann*e
en question. Chaque composante sera d6composte en activitAs pour
lesquelles il faudra les informations suivantes (presenteas en forme de
tableau avec une colonne pour chaque point ci-dessous):
(i) intitul# de l'activit6 (p.e.: achat de tel ou tel 6quipement,
mOme s'il s'agit d'achat sur appel d'offre; formation de maitres;
seminaire pour inspecteurs; fourniture de livres; etc).
(ii) Dates pr&vues pour l'activit6.
(iii) Nombre d'unites concernees (p.e.: nombre de mattres a former;
nombre de v#hicules a acheter; nombre de livres; nombre de salles de
classes a construire; etc). Ces informations serviront d'indicateurs
pour le suivi.
(iv) Coat de l'activite avec indication de la base de calcul et le
coft unitaire.
Ce tableau, accompagnA d'un commentaire qualitatif, sera la piece
mattresse du DS pour la composante; l'ensemble des tableaux des
composantes constituera le PDAA.
5.   Sur le plan orianis-ationel le DS sera appuy6 et encadr6 en amont et
er. aval. D'une part, pour des raisons 6voqu6es en paragraphe 1 ci-dessus,
la DNPE jouera le rOle central dans l'organisation et l'analyse des
informations recueillies dans le processus de suivi. D'autre part, les
Services competents et directement concern6s par le Projet seront a la
fois en amont et en aval de la DNPE, lui fournissant les informations
necessaires (en collaboration avec les services de la DNPE) et en se
servant des analyses qul en resortent dans l'aezcution des differentes
activites.
6.   En matiere de oolitiaue 6ducative, le DS tiendra compte des
indicateurs qui figureront dans l'Accord de Credit. I1 s'agira de suivre
l'6volution des ces indicateurs (p.e.s le nombre de maitres b6n&voles
admis dans les ENI; 1'Avolution de la structure du budget du MEN et la
part des depenses de fonctionnement; le taux d eazcution budgetaire
relatif au paiement des enseignants fonctionnaires; l'volution du budget
d'investissement et d'une stratAgie de diveloppement sectoriel; etc.) afin
de prAparer la revue annuelle du projet qui aura lieu lors de la mission
de supervision du mois d'octobre-novembre.
7.   Les resultats escomntes par le DS seraient:
(i) le financement sans heurt du Projet grace au tableau de bord
Atabli par les activiths de suivi qui pourront fournir l'6tat de
rAalisation du Projet I tout moment.
(ii) une exAcution harmonieuse et coordonnie des activitAs grace a la
disponibilitA des informations.
(iii) une adequation entre les attentes de chacun des partenaires de
1 lopAration.



B:SUMTECHA.WKI  (Chadl)                                                                 Rt.tC I     0
CUATICH l1eItBILITATU  lJET
Sumory of For.iva  sd Local Sp eis%lot Servicee
ESTIMATED
WMCIAL StT     M13   ff                      OU"IAI        CA -
ROJECT COtIET                          SmtWICES         pe        STATUS            IN  NR tlG  FRI        TO                  TinM OF 1UBCE
A. RE14ILITAT1I34 OF FtIMMlI  UCATION
---_--_-------.---_-----------_-------
1. SLU?T TO COmI T  INITIATIVES
1.1 Ce"tral Adsnioteeoe           School e iwiline         I    Locel                   40       lw       1it      Coordination of school costruction;  eitoriWm. bock-
speci l *t oftop.100 for proureseet of rods NW ervices; I.go.t.e.
1.2 Refiional Adsinietrstioo        Regloeal               2    Foreign                  120      196      19       Coordinate mA _  oe  te s too ati ceostrectioe  onoam.
ibdigl Sp*c./         4      oltoreod d            240       awe0      m             fII oefj CZl,               traelal =g.
Coame. ty                  Proeres  Voluntri                                                           etris *d                     ioe.
Oresnioier                 Spocilollst
* bidlif              4    Locol                    240      196      199      Coordiesto field cotrectioo activities slong with polsetor
50"41 *to                                                  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pecIalIsts.
1.3 Stvdy Coonrnoty litiotives   Cooeltents               3    Foroign* PP               a       I/il    S/0       Elaborot CI/APE typole  . develop jdido  laes fsr sits
flsoc                                               se*lstle sod offeralstrn of constructioe actipities.
1.4 Tr inins lSpcialisto          Coe_lteots               -    Short-ter.                        W /      3/91     Participate in %vsaine cairass  conedct studies.
2.  DOVIIO LEAMINS PROCEAS -  RVISIl liF BOOKS aWD  1WS
2.1 Follow-p/Evelustion           Evel etion               I   Foroeie                   4        11/9    12/89    FolIo-w on thes distributnee of books        o    tsti
Specislislt                                                    12/90     1/91    disl.ribq.tion. mseee.eet) drense tie project.
2.2 Study Oiotnlbutioe of         Eslustioef               I   Frosi  pP. m              2        4/31    6/66      Elwstioa of te 4eotributle wod tihe _e of   teoriela
Books a Eqeipeset             S>eciolit                     finaned                                            floesmd modor tih  Third Project.
3. DOVDC TEAO$INQ  tES8
3.1 Neitorille/Evslotion          Eolustioa                1    Foroim                  is        1ow      1990     o      N sod     zr orrlstl  of t Ietion stuyW
Sse;s1lalt                                                                       traletlee of Mi nistry profnnaileeeaetiesuy
3.2 Study Peysot Procederes       Finooesl                 2    Foreign. FM             2.5       1/sn     3/U      &W tEl  le    srrsre  Uob teoyssot of t"*hr melonits
Speciallet                   fieed                                               and  develop  a  payment  scneme.
3.3 Troloors of Toseher Imalmre  Traloors                  4    Locel                   32       9/66      12/69     artliopo  in trealflee of leopoctors. podsce l
*4.ieero and CRC psermsone ,h will be clsreed with ruwsole
S.  IiEetD  Slrt   ITm.8eAr AtD  AN                                                                                 teache
---------------_--_------------------_-
1. EWOD IW         W
1.1 Study: O                                                                             4 lsstlo1 s f t *  2    Forg    1F  4  1/66  2/0S  An*selal OM  tructers sod stsh rscoied4tiee for emre
aod Netod                     Secial st*                    flesaced                                            functIonal sond etffetiv, structure.
1.2 Roomier Selony Psy_ste        Finsecia                 I   Snot-ten                  2        12/66    4e09    Oevolop  sclois for improed pay_st Proceduros.
Consul Utoot
2. PLAiO             V            Statistics              4-   For-sis                   30       am       1993     supot thes Gto  plscise wt. is  tatIstics. fnsocieal
col lfcteon. evelus-                                                             sonlysis. Us isplee_ntation of dvelstlion progress  nd
ties.  flnnies                                                                   the ses of coeputers; trao*lee.
astieods
C. FROET UhlT
1. COWIRDrIaN. WlesoBeT             Ads-nistlrtor-         I   Foreigo                  40       19a       193      Overall projoct cooreinstiee. fineacial  nosesst sod
AMt Sm.FF6T TO 104              Iboser                                                                          sdeils tnotloe; trasleleg
DIRETPATO                       Edutnlist              I   Foreign. PF               6        1/6      10/6     CeorJdistlsof prjectctrtou.
Eduestion ist         I   Fore i o0                          l0/6     1993     Coor4iraste  of pedgoelcel sotii0ti*0; osoitorien;
2. PROF IIMLI SiCECS              Accountant               2    Foreign                  12       Iam      Iwi      Audite  of aproject eccouet. procereoet assiatoecs.                            tD X
3. VIUEt  itJECT iPARATIOM                               4-t   Fore ig                 24        1991     19"3     Prorstige at studies sod docou_t for future IDA-                                0
fle.oced Project.                                                              1t 
S 1.eAY OF Sf`IWi31ST SERVICES                        $1NOW"           5 OF TOTAL
Foreign                                      52 .5             63%
Local                                        332.0             37%
TOTAL                                        908.5    100%



| -  ~ -- -  - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
|  :,-1!  1          |~ I                       0i                                                       I   [| Z 1
-          'iI              Ii                                                                              -  -     
WI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~I
fl~~~~~
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
i  ~       ~~ |                     ll                             1         3  i 0
tl..lX I 9 8  >  |  ^ t                                                              I
l  l    f - -    f  fi    tu     P T   bmO . 4ts o
i                                 S .   .,   .r   ;   ,  |  *   *  tI
I             OIL*                                        3 
I                              IF 
;go                                            I                                  I      I
ZT-C    X       i                  m       i   s                               :W                I|*      mii
*                                    ..                                          ..         ..  ...g.. .... ... ......    
!~~~~~~9    99jU                                   Ul-l$  !EteiX. *~5Ij.:! 3
g3'             d'* i t|,              I L   i1 R       L 
g !~ r           ,   ,  j I                                j                         L j
............ .... .........I..  ..... ... ........ ... ... ..... ......... ..... ... ...............
39  3                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '1  ..j   .g.sa~
ZT-4-              .. X                                  -.



138
B:PROA3-13 WP (Chad2)
ANN= 3-13
Page 1 of 3
IEPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Part A. Procurement of Goods and Works
1.       Except as provided in Parts C and D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more each.
Part B. Pref-rence for Domestic Manufacturers
3.       In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.  Other Procurement Procedures
4.       Books and manuals estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2.96 million
would be procured after international consultation with at least three publishers.
Equipment (excluding printing of textbooks) and furniture contracts as well as
building materials and construction contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
between USS20000 and USS100.000 eauivalent per contract, which are not likely to
attract overseas foreign firms, would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally (LCB), in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that: (i) the afaretate cost
of such contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit shall not exceed the
ecmivalent of US$1.5 million; (ii) all bids shall be opened in public and bidders'
representatives shall be allowed to be present; (iii) criteria for evaluating bids
shall be set out clearly and communicated to all bidders; (iv) no preference
margin shall be granted to domestic manufacturers or suppliers and (v) foreign
companies shall be authorized to bid in accordance with local procedures.
5.       Items that cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least USS20.000
equivalent provided the aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed
US$300,000 equivalent, would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
price quotations invited from lt least three reputhble suppliers or contrbetors
pligcbl a under the guidelinfom  in accordance with procedures acceptoble to the
Association.
Part D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
6.       Prior Review.  For all contracts or bid packages of at least US$100,000
equivalent, each of the following stages in the procurement process would be
subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before they are
implemented and finalized:



139
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 3
- Advertisement
- Prequalification (if called for)
- Bidding documents and addenda
- Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
- Contract documents
- Subsequent major modifications of the contract
7.      Initial Review.  For all contracts valued at up to US100,000 equivalent,
an initial review, followed by a post review or a random review depending on size
of contract, by IDA staff would be required for standard documents which are
commor to a number of procurement operations, for example:
- the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
- the prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation; and
- standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders, general
conditions of contract, and in pome instances, technical specifications.
8.      Post Review.  For all contracts or bid packages estimated at between
US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts, together
with the bidding documents, bid evaluation and award decision, would be furnished
to IDA for post review before the first application for withdrawal of credit funds
against these contracts.
9.      Random Review.  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of Part D,
(6), (7) and (8) shall not apply to contracts valued at under US$20,000 equivalent
on account of which ti' Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statemen_s of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained at the
DNPE for random review by IDA supervision missions and for regular semi-annual
audits.
Part E. Specialist Services and Fellowships/Local Training
10.      Specialist services, including audit services, valued at US$4.58 million
equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines on the use of
consultants. Fellowships, valued at US$0.45 million equivalent, would be
contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Local training represents US$2.41
million equivalent and would be carried out under principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part F. Participation by Foreign Firms
11.      About 13S of the contracts for goods would be procured through LCB
according to procedures acceptable to IDA; if foreign firms wish to participate
under these circumstances, they would be allowed to do so in accordance with local
procedures.



140
ANNEX 3-13
Page 3 of 3
Part G. Modification of Contracts
12.      The figure of 1OZ would be specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines (related to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of contracts or granting a material extension of the
stipulated time, or issuing any change order under such contract which would
increase the cost of contracts by more than 1OZ of the original price).



141                                            ANNNEX 3-'14
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIQUE DU CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT/PROJET DE R04ABILITATION DE L'EUr-ATION
DISBIsAEM4ENT PROFILE/PROFIL DES 0EBO1SSEMENrTS
Di burmeent*/Debourseomnts
IDA Fiecal Year's
and Qusrtere/DA    By Quarter/    Cumulative/        -------------
Ann:e.  budgetairea  Per Trimeetre  Cu.uIatif      Project/Projet  Regional Sector/Soctour a 1'eehll. regional.
et trimestr*a       (USS Mil ion)  (USS M  I Iion)      Ci)                               (I)
1989  1  (30-Sep-88)    1.4             1.4
2  (31-Dec-88)    1.4             2.8             13                                 5
3  (31-Mar-89)    1.4             4.2
A  (30-Jun-89)    1.5             5.7             26                                11
1990  1  (30-Sep-89)    1.1             6.8
2  (31-Dec-89)    1.1             7.9             36                                17
3  (31-Mar-90)    1.1             9.0
4  (30-Jun-90)    1.1            10.1             46                                24
1991  1  (30-Sep-90)    1.1            11.2
2  (31-Dec-90)    1.2            12.4             56                                 43
3  (31-Mar-91)    1.2            13.6
4  (30-Jun-91)    1.2            14.8             67                                42
1992  1  (30-Sep-91)    0.9            15.7
2  (31-Dec-91)    0.9            16.6             75                                52
3  (31-Mar-92)    1.0            17.6
4  (30-Jun-92)    1.0            18.6              S5                               61
1993  1  (30-Sep-92)    0.8            19.4
2  (31-Dec-92)    0.8            20.2             92                                70
3  (31-Mar-93)    0.9            21.1
4  (30-Jun-93)    0.9            22.0            100                                77
1994  1  (30-Sep-93)    0.0            22.0            100
2  (31-Dec-93)                                                                      84
3 (31-Mar-94)
4  (30-Jun-94)                                                                      89
1995  1  (30-Sep-94)
2  (31-Dec-94)                                                                      94
3 (31-Mar-95)
4  (30-Jun-95)                                                                      98
1996  1  (30-Sep-95)
2  (31-Dec-95)                                                                      100
3 (31-Mar-96)
4 (30-Jun-96)



!'.2
B:COAN3-15.WP (Chad3)                                      ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Contributions from Government and Local Communities
1.          The Government's financial contribution to the project is estimated
at about FCFA 413,000,000 equivalent to US$1.4 million or 5.6% of the total
project cost. The Government's contribution would finance fellowships for about
200 supplementary teachers to enroll at the Teacher Training College (ENI) and
16Z of the project's operating costs. After having received project-financed
training, these supplementary teachers would be entitled to automatic admission
to the ENI's and occupy slots that otherwise would have been filled by students
possessing the BEPC and having passed the competitive admissions examination.
2.          The local communities' contribution, generated from Pa::ent
Associations (APEs) is estimated at about FCFA 510,000,000, equivaLent to US$1.8
million or 7.01 of the total project costs. The APEs would finance either in
kind (labor and provision of local building materials) or through cash
contributions towarl the construction of primary schools.
3.          The Table below shows the above contributions over project period by
semester.
GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND CALENDAR YEAR
(in million FCFA)
Base Cost/                1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
FinancinR              Cont. Inc.                  1    2    3    4    5 Total
1.Government        Base Cost                      61   50   69   84   66  330
Contingencies Costs            8   10   15   25   25   83
Total (in-
cluding                       -          _             -
contingencies)                69   60   84  109   91  413
2. Local            Base Cost                       0  108  113  118   122 461
Communities       Contingencies                   0   10   11   13    15  49
Total (in-
cluding                       _    _         -
contingencies)                 0  118  124  131   137 510
3. Chadian          Base Cost                      61   158  182  202  188 791
Contribution        Contingencies                  8    20   26   38   40 132
(government &      Total (in-                    -           _
local communities) cluding
contingencies)                69   178  208  240  228 923
===   ===C =3=  ===  === ==,-



IBR2 20901
CHAD
X      EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
PROJECT REGIONAt SUPPORT CENTERS                                                                                  B
*      CENTRES OGAPPUI REGION4UX (CAR) DU                                                            N        L    I   B    Y    A
*     PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
ECOLES NORMALES DGIN5 IUrEURS (ENI)
REGIONAL IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
A     CENTRES REGIONAUX DE FORMATION                                                                                     -
-20           CONTINUE (CRFC2 ( 
REGIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
O     INSPECTORATES                      I
INSPECrIONS PRINOPALES DE
L'ENSEIGNEMENT ELEMENrAIRE (IPEE)  |
PRLMARY EDUCATION INSPECTORATES   |
o     INSPECTIONS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT
EHEMENTAIRE (IEE)I
PREFECTURE CAPITALS               I                     BORKOU          -    ENNEDI         -    TIBESTI
t     CHEF-LIEUX DE PREFECTURES
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALEI
PREFECTURE ROUNDARIES            |                                         FAYA-LARGEAU
LMITES DE PRE'ECTURES           I                                         @00
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONI7ERES INTERNAnONALES
I                                                                     0?d
0         100        200 KILOMETERS        |
0       50       100      150MILES      00 \
-15-     BJ ~                                                                                                 BIL   T   I  NE      '
BILTINE C
MAO                                 BA rHA)                                                SUA
,*.~JKLak Vs               /
>-*tV ~   ~     C EO.h4      {,
LN'DJAMENAUADDA 
NIGERIACH R                                                              Bti
AL8      eoO                           (a)
r v ~~~~~~acoGaW                                                                                 ///
[   ~~~15  s-S~~~ts4  tf                                                                    B  I L  r~~~~~(  0  N-         [f I-  _1 5-T
t Se^nv    )   K A  N  E M          /                                                         J~~~~~~~~~~~~) HA
CAMEROON                                       D               A                                                C       SUDAN
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~C LOIG                                                                   AFR ICA w iNY  
*                     od~~~okourn0GorR ~~REPUBLIC,.J9A
S'               1p*, 00                                                                                                       1988



