Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15009
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1950-CD)
SEPTEMBER 28, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = CFAF*
(Average CFAF per USS)
1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
275       334       280       305       260       288        542
*The CFA Franc (CFAF) is currently tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of FF1 to CFAF 100.
Prior to January 12, 1994, the rate was FF1 to CFAF 50.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER
October - July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP           Association Frangaise des Volontaires du Progres (French Association of Volunteers for
Progress)
APE            Association des Parents d'Eleves (Parents' Association)
CPSF           Cellule de Promotion de la Scolarisation des Filles (Office for Promotion of Girls'
Education)
CRFC           Centre Regional de Formation Continue (Regional In-Service Training Center)
DAAFM          Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres et des Materiels (Budget,
Personnel Directorate)
DEE            Direction de l'Enseignement Elementaire (Directorate of Primary Education)
DFAP           Direction de la Formation et de I'Action Pedagogique (Directorate of Pedagogic
Training)
DG             Direction Generale de l'Education (General Directorate of the Ministry of National
Education)
DNPE           Direction Nationale des Projets d'Education (National Directorate for Education
Projects)
DP             Delegation Prifectorale (Prefectoral Delegation for Education)
DPEN           Delegues Prefectoraux de l'Education Nationale (Prefectoral Delegates for Education)
DRH            Direction des Ressources Humaines (Human Resources Directorate)
ENI            Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs (Primary Teacher Training College)
ETE            Education-Training-Employment Strategy
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Assistance and Cooperation Agency) (French)
IEE            Inspection de l'Enseignement Elementaire (Inspectorate for Primary Education)
GTZ            Gesellschaft fir technische Zusammenarbeit (Agency for Technical Cooperation)
(German)
KfW            Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (Bank for Reconstruction) (German)
MEN            Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility (Fonds de Preparation de Projet)
SOE            Statement of Expenditures (Releve de Depenses)
TGF            Teachers' Guaranty Fund
UNV            United Nations Volunteer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...................................................................... i
Evaluation Summary .......................................................................                                                                                           li
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................................1
A. STATEMENT   AND   EVALUATION   OF  OBJECTIVES  ........                                                              .....................................................
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................................                                                                                    2
Policy  Framework  Objectives ......................................................................2
Primary  Education  Rehabilitation  Objectives .......................................................................3
Improving  the  Efficiency  and  Quality  of Primary  Schooling    ...............................................................4
Sector Planning  and  Management . .......................................................................S
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..... .............6
D. PROJECT   SUSTAINABILITY  ......................................................................                                                                                    8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .......................................................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................................... 10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...................................................................... 10
H. FUTURE OPERATION ...................................................................... I I
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................................                                                                                        11
2. STATISTICAL TABLES ......................................................................                                                                                        14
TABLE 2.1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................... 14
TABLE 2.2: RELATED  BANK CREDITS ....................................................................... 15
TABLE 2.3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .                                                      ...................................................................... 15
TABLE 2.4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS ......................................................................                                                                               16
TABLE 2.5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................. 16
TABLE 2.6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................................... 17
TABLE   2.7: STUDIES  INCLUDED   IN   PROJECT   ......................................................................                                                               18
TABLE 2.8A: PROJECT COSTS (IDA  CREDIT) ......................................................................                                                                        19
TABLE 2.8.B: PROJECT FINANCING ....................................................................... 19
TABLE   2.9: ECONOMIC   COSTS  AND   BENEFITS  ..........................................................                                                             ............ 19
TABLE   2.10:   STATUS  OF  LEGAL   COVENANTS                                                        ...................................................................... 20
TABLE 2.11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................. 23
TABLE   2.12: BANK   RESOURCES: STAFF  INPUTS                                                        ...................................................................... 23
TABLE 2.13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................................................                                                                         24
APPEND X   A  ......................................................................                                                                                                 26
APPENDIX B ......................................................................                                                                                                    31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi,hout World Bank authorization.



ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1950-CD)
PREFACE
1     This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Rehabilitation
Project in Chad (Cr. 1950-CD), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 16.2 million (US$22.0
million) was approved on August 2, 1988 and made effective on November 23, 1988.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1994. Ninety-nine percent of the credit was
disbursed (SDR 162,794.31 remained), and the final disbursement took place on April 12, 1995.
Cofinancing for the project was neither envisaged nor provided.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Ms. Penelope Bender, Education Specialist/Consultant,
(AF3PH) and reviewed by Mr. David Berk, Division Chief (AF3PH) and Mr. P. Hari Prasad,
Operations Advisor (AF3DR).
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
of November 1994 and continued during a second mission in March 1995. It is based on material
in the project file, field visits and discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's Aide-
Memoire, preparing a separate evaluation of project preparation and execution and commenting on
the draft ICR.
5.    The outcome of the project was satisfactory on balance. It achieved most of its major
objectives. The chances of sustainability are relatively high in the short term, but uncertain in the
long term, due to Chad's fragile political and economic environment.



ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project                                              iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1950-CD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The project under review (Cr. 1950-CD) for US$22.0 million, followed three preceding operations in
education: Cr. 126-CD for US$2.2 million, signed on August 29, 1968; Cr. 251-CD for US$2.7 million,
signed on June 16, 1971; and Cr. 811-CD for US$8.3 million, signed on June 5, 1978. These projects
supported primary teacher training, technical and vocational education, educational materials for primary
education and educational management and planning. The first .wo projects were completed in eight years
(each four years later than planned). The third, which was interrupted by war, was reactivated in June 1985
and closed in December 1988. All three operations were rated unsatisfactory by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED). Their respective Project Completion Reports (PCR) gave the following reasons: (a)
overly ambitious project designs;  (b) difficulty of the Government in assuming recurrent costs;  (c)
inadequate staffing of project institutions; (d) insufficient IDA supervision and; (e) inadequate technical
assistance from other donors.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The project had three objectives, to: (a) establish a policy framework for the sector; (b) rehabilitate
primary education, with limited increases in public recurrent expenditures; and (c) rehabilitate sector
planning and management (para. 1.3).
3.    There were four main components, to: (a) assist and encourage local community initiatives through
support for the construction or renovation and equipping of about 1,000 classrooms in two regions; (b)
improve the efficiency and quality of primary education; (c) strengthen the Ministry of Education's
(Ministere de 1'Education Nationale, MEN) ability to plan and manage its resources; and (c) strengthen
MEN's capacity to execute projects (paras. 1.5-1.6).
4.     Agreed Changes. The only agreed change, after Board approval, in project objectives was a
reduction in the number of primary schools to be constructed or renovated, from 1,000 to 800 (para. 1.5).
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project under review was designed to be appropriate for
Chad's economic level and to fit its sector and macro policy objectives. Objectives were clearly defined and
designed to fit the existing country capacity, while including measures to expand that capacity. Given Chad's
economic and political context, both at the time of appraisal and at the time of credit closing, the project was
designed to offer maximum educational benefits in a few selected key areas, while minimizing risk as much
as possible (para. 1.7).



iv                                                                         Evaluation Summary
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES AND RESULTS
6.     Proiect Results. The project achieved most of its main physical objectives, despite difficulties in
several areas, especially during the first two years of effectiveness (para. 1.8).
7.     The following major results were achieved: (a) education's share of the national budget increased; (b)
most training goals were realized; (c) 330 classrooms were built, 380 were renovated and 680 were
equipped; (d) textbooks and supplies were purchased; and (e) a comprehensive strategy for the sector, the
Education-Training-Employment (ETE) Strategy (Education-Formation-Emploi) was developed.
Implementation of policy reform objectives was less successful and there was significant mismanagement of
the textbook component. That component will be audited under the follow-on project, but an informal survey
at a small number of schools indicated that the number of textbooks in classrooms is not high, and books
financed under the project for distribution in schools are being sold openly in markets around the country and
even abroad (paras. 1.10, 1.14 -1.17).
8.     Sustainability. As most of the project components will be supported by the follow-on project and
dialogue on the share of public recurrent expenditures allocated to education, the short-term chances of
sustainability are relatively high. However, the mobility of personnel and the low capacity of the government
make it likely that many staff will not continue to work in the positions for which they have been trained, and
that textbooks and materials will continue to be sold in the markets, despite measures envisioned in the
follow-on project. Consequently, the long-term chances of sustainability are uncertain and depend on the
government's commitment to allocating sufficient and appropriate human and financial resources to the
sector and managing those resources competently. The follow-on project includes many specific measures to
sustain the achievements of the project under review (paras 1.34-1.36).
9.     Actual costs, financing and implementation timetable. Project costs were originally estimated at
US$25.2 million: US$22.0 million from IDA, $ 1.4 million from Government and $ 1.8 million from
communities. Ninety-nine percent of the IDA funds allocated were disbursed. Government eventually met
its funding obligations, but there were several periods during project implementation when delays in
replenishment of counterpart funds became obstacles to implementation. During implementation of the
school construction and renovation component, the Bank and the Government decided to reduce the required
amount of community contributions for poorer communities and communities that were already making
significant contributions to their schools. Consequently, community contributions were below expectations:
only 3.5 percent of construction and renovation costs instead of the anticipated 10 percent (paras. 1.43 and
1.49).
10.    Project Implementation. The project was prepared by a team of World Bank and UNESCO staff.
Preparation was financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which financed studies on the payment of
teacher salaries, community initiatives, organization of MEN, distribution and control of teaching and
learning materials and sector policy. It also financed a census of teachers and school directors, evaluations
of teachers and directors, development of teacher training curricula, and the training of teacher trainers.
When the project became effective, in November 1988, the activities conducted under the PPF enabled the
teacher training component to get off to a rapid start. However, implementation of the construction
component was delayed, and no major achievements were realized for the first two years of project
effectiveness. The project was closed on December 31, 1994 (para. 1.28).
11.    Key Problems that Affected Achievement of Major Objectives. Achievement of objectives was
affected by: (a) the low capacity of central and sector administration; (b) the high mobility of personnel; (c)
military unrest following a coup d'etat which destroyed many project vehicles and redeployed others to non-



ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project                                                v
D
education sector activities, and also destroyed equipment and records, in addition to disrupting activities; and
(d) teacher strikes (paras. 1.29-1.32).
12.    Bank Performance. The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Project preparation, carried
out jointly with UNESCO experts, took one and a half years, from issue of the IEPS in May 1987 to credit
effectiveness in November 1988. Project implementation took six years. During these six years, there were
17 supervision missions. Supervision was satisfactory, contributing significantly to the project's success,
especially towards the end of the implementation period. However, the Bank did not define perfornance
indicators to monitor implementation and operation and at times was slow to require strong corrective action
from the Borrower to solve problems (i.e. in the textbook componcnt) (para. 1.37).
13.    Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance in project implementation was generally
satisfactory, with an average performance rating of 2 on overall status and achievement of development
goals. However, both financial and general management could have been improved at certain points during
the period of projcct implementation. Delays werc noted in counter-part funding, and accounting and
procurement procedures were unsatisfactory at certain times (paras. 1.41-1.44).
14.    Project Outcome. Due to the achievements detailed above, this project is rated satisfactory. It
achieved most of its major physical objectives, although there were substantial difficulties in some areas
(para. 1.45).
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
15.    Most important findings of project implementation experience. Supervision can play a critical
role in increasing country capacity to implement and monitor. Projects can be undertaken in countries that
are experiencing considerable instability, if their objectives are tailored to country capacity and sufficient
resources are given to supervision. Policy reform measures will have limited success in these contexts, but
should not be abandoned, as they are necessary for long-term sector development. Especially in the social
sectors, the bencfits of involvcment may be worthwhile, by increasing Government capacity to analyze and
implement reforms, even if certain project components are not wholly implemented, or are implemented
improperly.
16.    Future Operation.  In the short termn, many of the achievements of the project under review will
continue to be supported by the follow-on project and dialogue on public expenditure allocations to
education. The follow-on project, Basic Education, and concurrent MEN initiatives, will continue to support
the following components of the project under review: (a) the protection of primary education's share of the
education budget; (b) the maintenance of constructed and renovated classrooms; (c) information campaigns
aimed at communities and merchants to encourage them to maintain stocks of textbooks and teachers' guides
in ways that will benefit students in their communities; and (d) training of tcachers and supervisory personnel
in the utilization and maintenance of textbooks and teachers' guides. The follow-on project will also
continue training teachers and supervisory personncl. Retention of trained personnel may be enhanced by a
system requiring contracts between supplementary teachers and communities, currently being developed by
MEN personnel. MEN has also committed to applying a more stringent application of the texts regulating
teacher transfers. School construction and reinforcement of community initiatives will be supported by
cofinancing from the German Corporation for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur rechnische
Zusammerarbeit, GTZ) and the Bank for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau, KfW). The
Government has developed a plan for future operations, which is included as part of the Borrower's
evaluation report (Appendix B) and further elaborated in Table 6 (Part II: Statistical Annexes) (para. 1.46-
1.47).



vi                                                                           Evaluation Summary
17.    Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons of this project are: (a) a project with well-defined and
limited objectives can succeed in an unstable country context, given adequate resources and supervision; (b)
technical objectives are more likely to succeed in unstable contexts than are policy reform objectives; (c)
frequent transfers of personnel hamper implementation and limit value of training investments; (d) the
inability of centralized governments to control loca! actions, and their reluctance to decentralize
responsibilities to local authorities, decreases project and sector effectiveness; and (e) community initiatives
are necessary for expansion and quality improvement, but the amount that poor communities can spend on
education is limited (paras. 1.48-1.49).  In addition, although project targets were reviewed during
supervision, indicators for project success should have been more explicitly addressed in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1950-CD)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Political instability and conflict have blocked significant development in Chad during the
thirty-five years since independence. It remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with a
GNP per capita of US$220 and an UNDP Hiuman Development Index ranking of 168th out of 173
countries in 1992. Agriculture, chiefly for subsistence, generates 30 to 40 percent of GDP and
provides more than 80 percent of the population with its livelihood.
1.2    Chad's security concerns and economic level have resulted in a lack of resources for the
education sector. Education received no support during the civil war years (1979-82), and
although Chad allocated 51 percent of the government education budget to primary education in
1988, the amount spent per pupil/year was only US$10.80, 20 percent of the Sub-Saharan African
average (US$49). In order to ensure minimal basic services at the primary school level, local
coommunities maintain existing schools and establish new ones. These community initiatives,
combined with donor activities, assure survival of the sector, at least in terms of access to
schooling, but Chad continues to have a very low primary school gross enrollment ratio (59 percent
total, but 36 percent for girls, in 1990) and minimal-quality services.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.3    Project Objectives. The project objectives can be divided into three categories: (a) policy
framework, (b) primary education rehabilitation and (c) sector planning and management.
1.4   Policy framework objectives were designed to assist the Government to gradually develop
and implecnent a policy framework aimed at easing financial constraints and improving quality in
the sector. Specific goals were to: (a) increase sector financing; (b) improve the efficiency of
resource use; and (c) avoid the emergence of major structural distortions.
1.5    Primary education rehabilitation objectives were to: (a) provide financial and technical
support for the construction, renovation and equipping of primary school classrooms (initially
about 1,000 classrooms, later revised to 800); and (b) improve the efficiency and quality of
primary schooling through the provision of: (i) teaching and learning materials; (ii) training for
1,750 "supplementary" teachers; and (iii) training for about 660 administrators to strengthen
teacher supervision.
1.6   In order to improve management and planning in the sector, the project aimed to: (a)
provide training in budget preparation and execution;  (b) streamline procedures for salary
payment; (c) strengthen personnel management; (d) strengthen the capacity of MEN's Planning
Unit; (e) increase the capacity of the national project office (Direction Nationale des Projers
d'Education, DNPE); (f) formulate a sector development strategy; and (g) prepare a follow-on
project.



2                                             ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
1.7    Evaluation of Objectives.  At the time of project preparation, there was a broad
consensus in the Government that: (a) investment in human resources should be a top priority; (b)
the initiatives of local communities should be supported; and (c) a long-term, global strategy
should be developed to guide development of the education sector. The main sectoral issues were
the lack of resources for education, the low quality of primary education and the weak management
and planning capacity of the MEN. The project objectives were consistent with these priorities and
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). They were well-defined, with quantification
for the first project year for some objectives, and for the end of the project for others. The
objectives were essential for the rehabilitation of an education system operating at a minimal level
and responded to the lessons learned from the unsuccessful outcomes of the first three education
projects, specifically: (a) the difficulty of Government in meeting its financial obligations; (b) the
understaffing of project institutions; (c) the over-ambitious nature of the projects; and (d) the lack
of donor coordination. (See para. 1.30 for discussion of major project risks.)
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.8    Most of the project's major physical objectives were realized at the time of credit closing,
despite a difficult two-year start-up period.  Most importantly, classrooms were constructed,
supplementary teachers were trained and training for school directors and inspectors was
conducted. However, some components achieved almost none of their objectives, such as the
monitoring of teacher recruitment and promotion, and some achievements, especially textbook
provision, were marred by significant mismanagement and misuse of resources.
Policy Framework Objectives
1.9   Sector Financing. This sub-component had two goals: (a) raise the share of education in
the total recurrent budget and (b) leverage and increase the productivity of community investments.
(a)    The education budget fluctuated during the years of the project, but there was a
general upward trend in total allocations. In 1989, education was allocated
4,224,294,415 CFA, which represented 10.52 percent of the national budget. In
1994, the allocated budget was 10,072,444,808 CFA, 14.21 percent of the
national budget.
(b)    Support of the investments of communities was achieved through incentives
provided through the school construction program (see below).
1.10   Improving the Efficiency of Resource Use. This sub-component had three goals:
(a)    protect the share of primary education within the sectoral budget;  monitor
changes in scholarship funding and shift that funding to external donors; and
increase the share of materials in the budget. The share of the budget allocated to
primary education fluctuated during the project years. Primary education's share
of the total education budget was 50 percent in 1989 and 51 percent in 1991, but
fell to 44 percent in 1994. The planned monitoring of the budget share allotted to
scholarships and pedagogical materials was not conducted, but the amount
allocated to materials remained 4 percent between 1987 and 1994. The share of



Implementation Assessment                                                         3
scholarships in the budget decreased, from 15 percent in 1987 to 10 percent in
1994.
(b)    monitor teacher recruitment and promotion so as to contain the growth of salary
expenditures, ensuring regular Government teacher salary payments, and admit
200 "supplementary teachers" to the teacher training colleges (Ecoles Normale
Instituteurs, ENI). Planned monitoring of teacher recruitment and promotion was
not conducted, due to a combination of strikes, recruitment freezes at the ENI and
resistance to increasing the transparency of personnel management. Mechanisms
to improve payment of teacher salaries were briefly piloted and implemented to
some extent in N'djamena, but never institutionalized, due to the unwillingness of
the Ministry of Finance to decentralize salary payment.   Of the 200
"supplementary" teachers who should have been admitted to the ENI, only 129
actually gained admission (see below).
(c)    develop an experimental plan for testing double-shift and multi-grade teaching.
The experimental plan envisioned for testing double-shift teaching is currently
serving 37 classes in three urban areas. The multigrade component conducted a
census of existing multi-grade classrooms and developed the first draft of a
pedagogical guide, but its finalization, printing, and distribution and related
training sessions will be conducted under the follow-on project.
1.11   Avoidance of Structural Distortions. This component aimed to (a) monitor the flow of
entrants into secondary school and higher education, with the goal of maintaining their number near
the 1988 level and encouraging students to enter secondary technical and vocational programs and
scientific/technical higher education and (b) agree with IDA each year on a three year rolling
investment budget and submit to IDA each year the draft annual budget law reflecting agreed-upon
budgetary targets. The first objective was not achieved, and the number of students in secondarv
general increased from about 45,000 in 1988 to about 70,000 in 1993. The number of students in
secondary technical and vocational training decreased slightly from 3,097 in 1986 to 3,044 in
1993. Breakdowns of enrollment in higher education are not available. The second objective was
fulfilled, but it should also be noted that complete budget execution figures were not available,
which mad.e it impossible to ascertain whether agreed upon priorities were actually funded as
planned.
Primary Education Rehabilitation Objectives.
1.12   Support to Community Initiatives for the Renovation and Construction of Classrooms.
The original goal of the project was to replace 400 classrooms and renovate 600, at one-third of the
usual government construction service cost.  This goal was revised in April 1991 to 320
constructions and 480 renovations.
1.13   The project built 330 classrooms, renovated 380 and equipped 680, with two-thirds of the
realizations occurring in 1993 and 1994. The component was implemented in two parts. The
French volunteer agency, Association FranVaise des Volontaires de Progr&s (AFVP), worked with
local communities, required community contributions and used local workers. During
implementation of the component, the project team found that some communities were unable to
contribute the amounts envisioned, and a decision was made by the Bank and the Government to
lower contribution requirements for the poorest communities and for communities which were
already making significant ccntributions to their schools. Consequently, contributions by parents'



4                                            ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
associations (Associations des Parents d 'Elves (APE)) ultimately totaled only 3.5 percent of
costs, much lower than the 10 percent anticipated. The capacity of the AFVP was over-estimated
at appraisal, and the project was eventually obliged to seek an additional implementing agency.
The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) allocated two UN volunteers to a Ministry
unit, which worked with private, profit-seeking firms. Fifteen percent of the realizations were
completed by these firms, without community involvement.
1.14   Costs of the classroom construction and renovation component were estimated at appraisal
at US$11,960 for construction, $3,520 for renovation, and $1,034 for tables and benches, per
classroom, in the SAR. These costs were found to be unrealistic by a Bank Senior Implementation
Specialist, due to the inflation-related cost implications of the late start of the component and the
fact that the original estimates provided for construction of unacceptably low quality, and the
budget was revised with estimates of $14,793, $4901 and $1,897 for construction, renovation and
furniture, respectively. Work carried out by the AFYP resulted in average costs of $20,708,
$5,841, and $2,048, respectively, between November 1988 and December 1992, and average costs
of $10,311, $2,266, and $2,048, respectively, from January 1993 to December 1994. These
differences were primarily due to differences in technical assistance costs, initial purchases of
unneeded materials, and the events of 1990, which destroyed materials and equipment. Work
supervised by the UNVs and carried out by private firms cost $15,727, $5,228, and $1,520,
respectively, between January and December 1993. This represented significant savings over the
average US$25,000 that it cost in 1988 for the Government construction service to build a
classroom. An evaluation of the component, conducted by a consultant hired by the Government
found the quality of construction to be between "good enough" and good, with an estimated useful
life of 30 years. The quality of renovations was estimated as between mediocre and very good,
with most considered "good enough." There was no comparative evaluation of the relative quality
of the work done by the AFVP and the UNVs.
Improving the Efficiency and Quality of Primary Schooling.
1.15   Provision of Textbooks. The aim of this component was to provide one set of reading,
math and science books for every three pupils. The SAR was inconsistent about the type of
textbooks to be financed by the project. Initially, it called for the "provision of low cost teaching
and learning materials (p. 7)" and then later stated that, given the urgency of the need, "the
textbooks would be those already in use (p. 11)." Eventually, a combination of books already in
use and alternative titles were purchased, all of which were imported and thus not low cost, which,
in the education sector, generally implies locally produced materials. The first lot of books was
purchased in 1989, at an average cost of 840 FCFA (US$2.68 ) per book. 522,000 textbooks were
purchased, and supposedly distributed, along with an additional 260,000 books purchased by FAC.
It is impossible to determnine the number of textbooks that were actually distributed, or even how
many actually arrived in Chad, given the difficulties described below.
1.16   This sub-component had a wide variety of difficulties. Selected examples are: entire
containers were diverted to other countries (Chadian textbooks were purchased by Bank staff in a
market in Benin); books were removed from containers before the containers were delivered to
schools; and delivery receipts were never signed, were forged and/or were left in schools. Books
are currently being openly sold in markets and members of all levels of the education
administration have been implicated by vendors. Despite repeated recommendations by the Bank
that an audit be conducted to determine the extent and causes of the failure of the component, no
evaluation was carried out. The Chadian police are attempting to recover stolen books and
materials in some areas of the country, but it is unlikely that more than a fraction will be recovered.



Implementation Assessment                                                           5
1.17  In addition to the considerable loss of books through theft, many books delivered to
schools are still wrapped in plastic and locked in the containers in which they were delivered.
Seminars designed to teach teachers to use textbooks, critically needed as most Chadian teachers
did not have access to any books in the decade preceding this project, were not effective.
1.18   Pedagogical Materials. Management of these materials was centralized in N'djamena.
Regional authorities reported that materials were delivered in ripped boxes, with no inventory lists
or delivery receipts, and police action in N'djamena in November 1994 recovered many boxes of
materials, in addition to textbooks. As these supplies are consumable, it is virtually impossible to
verify their distribution or use.
1.19   Training of "Supplementary" Teachers. This sub-component intended to improve the
quality of "supplementary" teachers, who are non-civil service teachers and currently make up fifty
percent of the Chadian teaching force. The training was designed to enable these teachers, who
complete varying levels of schooling before being recruited by their respective communities, to
create lesson plans, use pedagogical materials and evaluate student learning outcomes. Teachers
also received basic instruction in French and mathematics to compensate for their varied
educational backgrounds.
1.20 The project trained 1,422 teachers, slightly less than its goal of 1,750. An evaluation of the
training, conducted by MEN's evaluation unit, found that the performance of supplementary
teachers had improved, when compared with their untrained counterparts, but that their skills
remained inadequate for the demands of Chadian classrooms.
1.21   The component originally planned to recruit 200 supplementary teachers, who had
completed at least the first cycle of secondary school, into the teacher training schools (ENI) and
then to integrate them into the civil service. This was meant to provide an incentive and to improve
the stability of the supplementary group. Only 129 were admitted to the ENIs, due primarily to the
strikes of 1992 and 1993, which closed the training facilities, and the Government's decision to
freeze recruitment to the ENIs in 1992.
1.22   Training to Strengthen Teacher Supervision. This sub-component aimed to reinforce the
impact of teacher training. The project trained supervisory personnel (inspectors, provincial
representatives (Delegues Provinciaux), regional in-service teacher training personnel, pedagogical
advisors ind school directors), purchased vehicles for the inspections and paid a portion of
operating costs for both central and local teacher supervision units. The project accomplished most
of its objectives: 14 provincial representatives, 750 school directors (instead of the original 600)
and 120 pedagogical advisors were trained.
1.23   The component also  financed the renovation of inspectorates (Inspections de
I'Enseignement Elementaire, IEE) and teacher training centers (Centres regionaux pour la
formation continue, CRFC). The SAR envisioned the renovation of 20 CRFC and "some"
inspectorates (IEEs). Seven IEE and seven CRFC were renovated.
Sector Planning and Management.
1.24   Streamline Procedures for Salary Payment. This sub-component aimed to improve
budgetary procedures and regularize teacher salary payments. The pilot project to regularize
salary payments operated for a short time, but only in Ndjamena. Fifty staff in the appropriate
unit, the Budget/Personnel Directorate (Direction des affaires administratives et,financiers et des
materiels, DAAFM) were trained, but the unit was dissolved ir 1991, the personnel were
transferr d to other posts and activities were halted. There was a three year gap between the



6                                           ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
disappearance of the DAAFM and the organization of a replacement unit, Direction des
Ressources Humaines (DRH). In 1994, the DRH began operations, but the project was no longer
involved. Plans to computerize the budget were not implemented, as a French Fonds d 'Aide et de
Cooperation(FAC) project took over that part of the component after the DRH was established.
The pilot project planned to improve the timeliness of payment of teacher salaries was not
implemented, except on a limited, and discontinued, pilot basis.
1.25   Strengthen Personnel Management. Attempts to rationalize personnel management were
not successful. The unit attempted to develop a manual outlining acceptable procedures for
personnel management, but was unable to finish the project. The French Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation(FAC) is now facilitating the centralization of transfer authorizations in MEN, but
authorization of promotions remains decentralized.
1.26   Strengthen the Capacity of MEN's Planning Unit. This sub-component aimed to
strengthen the capacity of the unit to collect, process and analyze statistical data, rationally plan
the location of schools, conduct studies on the sector and develop a sectoral policy. Four staff
members received training in France in planning, two in statistics and two in school mapping.
Locally, 158 staff received training in statistics and 50 in school mapping. All of the planned
activities were implemented.
1.27   One of the most significant achievements of the project was the development of the
Education-Training-Employment (ETE) Strategy (Education-Formation-Emploi), which covers
the development of all sub-sectors of the education system between 1990 and 2000.  The
development of the strategy increased the interest of other donors in the sector, resulted in a major
donor meeting to discuss potential actions and coordinate responses and allowed MEN to attract
co-financing for the follow-on project. Detailed action plans for the implementation of the strategy
have been developed and a specific unit has been designated to plan and supervise strategy
implementation.
1.28   Strengthen the Capacity of MEN's National Directorate for Education Projects. The
objective of this sub-component was to enhance project implementation by creating a specific unit
responsible for the coordination of externally financed project activities and the administrative
aspects of project execution, including procurement and accounting. Despite extremely high staff
turnover (four project directors in five years), the unit itself was useful in the coordination of
project activities.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
1.29   Implementation Record. The project was prepared through a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF), which financed studies on the payment of teacher salaries, community initiatives,
organization of MEN, distribution and control of teaching and learning materials and sector policy.
It also financed a census of teachers and school directors, evaluations of teachers and directors,
development of teacher training curricula, and the training of teacher trainers. When the project
became effective, in November 1988, the activities conducted under the PPF enabled the teacher
training component to get off to a rapid start. However, implementation of the construction
component was delayed, and no major achievements were realized for the first two years of project
effectiveness. The events of 1990 further delayed implementation and it was not until 1991 that
activities in the construction component really began. Construction, renovation, provision of



Implementation Assessment                                                             7
equipment and distribution of textbooks were ongoing until December 1994. The project was
closed on December 31, 1994.
1.30   Major Factors Affecting the Project. When the project was appraised, three main risks
were envisioned: (a) the civil war, which at that time was localized in the northern part of the
country, could intensify, drawing resources from the education sector; (b) a sudden influx of
resources into the country could lead to disruption of community-based initiatives; and (c) the
limited absorptive capacity of MEN and the communities could limit the extent of project
execution. The first risk did not materialize, but a coup d'etat in December 1990 destroyed project
equipment, vehicles and records in N'djamena and provincial centers. The resources generated by
the project and subsequent donor activities have not disrupted community initiatives, and may
even have had the opposite effect, through the provision of incentives to active communities. The
limited capacity of MEN and communities did slow project execution. However, the flexible and
participative approach to implementation problem-solving, which was used towards the end of the
project implementation period, positively affected project outcomes. Another significant factor in
the success of the project was the skill and continuity provided by the long-term technical assistant.
1.31   Factors not generally subject to government control:
(a)    destruction of materials, equipment and project records during the events of 1990
(27.9 percent of equipment and vehicles purchased by the project disappeared and
5.4 percent were destroyed);
(b)    unstable security situation  in rural areas and  consequent difficulties in
implementing project activities in those areas; and
(c)    interruption in Bank supervision after the events of December 1990, due to the
country's instability.
1.32   Factors generally subject to government control:
(a)    rapid turnover of staff (four project directors and fifteen Ministers of Education in
five years, for example) and insufficient training of new staff reduced
implementation capacity and contributed to delays and gaps in financial control;
(b)    the heavily centralized administrative systems increased costs and decreased
efficiency;
(c)    teacher strikes, due to non-payment of teacher salaries, disrupted classes and
training; and
(d)    MEN's lack of knowledge of local circumstances reduced its ability to produce
rational plans and timetables for school construction and rehabilitation and
textbook and material distribution.
1.33   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a)    selection of personnel for training  based on non-sectoral considerations
contribute i to the lack of trained staff to fill key positions;



8                                              ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
(b)    insufficient experience of staff in project planning and procurement procedures,
which led to delays; and
(c)    failure to involve local authorities in the execution of the component, beyond
initial consultations on site selection, reduced their motivation and ability to
supervise sites.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.34   Project sustainability is uncertain and will depend on Chad's avoidance of political strife
and other disruptions, such as drought, and remaining committed to human resource development.
Since the end of 1990, the political environment has been relatively calm, although several small
conflicts continue around the country. Potentially more damaging to the sustainability of the
project, though, is the lack of capacity of the heavily centralized government and its consequent
inability to manage government resources and programs. However, the ongoing follow-on project,
dialogue on public expenditure allocation and the increasing involvement of local communities in
the sector increases the likelihood that most of the major achievements of the project will be at least
partially sustained, in the short term. Long-term sustainability is uncertain and will depend on the
factors cited above and on the actions that the Government takes to support its stated commitment
to the sector, especially in the area of teacher financing.
1.35   Major specific threats to sustainability are: (a) losses of trained personnel due to frequent
transfers, which are not always based on sector considerations; (b) the lack of national resources
dedicated to the operation of project vehicles, which are necessary for the survival of the teacher
supervision component; (c) the lack of funds to pay salary bonuses to teachers who teach double-
shifts, which may limit the expansion of the program and cause some teachers to decide not to
continue; and (d) movement of trained supplementary teachers out of the sector, due to the
inability of APEs to fund them on a consistent basis and at an acceptable level.
1.36   Specific measures being taken to increase sustainability for selected components are the
following:
(a)    Maintenance guides for classrooms constructed and renovated by the project have
been developed during the project, and distribution will be conducted under the
follow-on project. Seminars will be held with APEs to assist them in developing
procedures for school maintenance and sector personnel at the central, regional
and local levels will coordinate missions at regular intervals to monitor the
condition of school buildings and advise APEs.
(b)    The teacher training division (Direction de la Formation Continue et de l'Appui
Pedagogique, DFAP) has committed itself to placing special emphasis on the
distnrbution, use and monitoring of textbooks, in an attempt to limit future theft
and to increase responsible use by teachers and students. A follow-on committee
(Comite de Suivi) has been established to inform communities of the textbook
distribution program, train teachers in textbook use and recuperate stolen
textbooks and redistribute them in schools. An action plan regarding the latter has
been developed and fulfillment of its conditions is a pre-requisite for the
continuation of the textbook component of the follow-on project.



Implementation Assessment                                                             9
(c)    A system requiring contracts between supplementary teachers and communities is
being developed by sector personnel and the MEN has committed itself to more
stringent application of the texts regulating transfers of civil service teachers.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.37   Identification. Performance during identification was satisfactory. Project design was
consistent with Chad's priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project
was designed as a rehabilitation of the existing system, and did not attempt innovative approaches
or new strategies, other than using government to reinforce existing community activities,
providing training for "supplementary" teachers, and expanding training of supervisory personnel.
The project required an above-average 169 staff weeks from identification to Board approval, due
to the limited capacity of sector personnel and the limited availability of data.
1.38   Preparation.  Project preparation, carried out jointly with UNESCO/CP experts, took
only one and a half years, from issue of the FEPS in January 1988 to Board presentation in August
1988. The project was prepared rapidly and not in a participatory manner, but preparation did
correctly identify and address priority issues in the sector, and so is rated satisfactory on balance.
The preparation method chosen, which used alrnost entirely expatriate expertise and solicited a
minimumn of Chadian input, decreased the commitment of education sector personnel to the
implementation of the project.
1.39   Appraisal. Appraisal was carried out by UNESCO-World Bank CP, using its staff and
consultants, and with no World Bank staff participating, although staff were involved in the
preparation of the SAR.  The SAR contained several inconsistencies and under-estimated
construction and renovation costs and the capacity of the AFVP to implement the construction
compdnent and is rated deficient. The costs used implied unacceptably low construction quality,
and the delay caused by the need to recalculate costs contributed to the slow start of the
construction component.
1.40   Supervision. During the six years of project implementation, there were 17 supervision
missions, which were generally of limited duration. Approximately 70 percent of them had
expertise additional to that of the two task managers, who were both general educators. There was
limited field time in 1990/91, due to the instability in Chad, and, at that time, implementation
ratings averaged "3."  Continuity in supervision was adequate.  The flexible approach to
implementation used towards the end of the project implernentation period encouraged the
identification and application of solutions to problems that arose during the execution of the
project, greatly increasing the achievements of the project. However, supervision missions did not
take sufficient action to change the course of the textbook component, despite the availability of
information on the situation. A visit to Chad by the Bank's textbook specialist in April 1994
resulted in a request for an audit of the component, which was included in the mission's technical
note (lcft in place of an aide-memoire), but the audit was never carried out, and losses continued
during the 1994 distribution of books and materials. The resident mission increased its role during
the life of the project, assisting Headquarters and MEN staff to communicate more efficiently, but
limited staffing reduced its ability to follow project execution. Supervision is rated satisfactory.



J0                                          ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.41   Preparation. The project was prepared by an UNESCO-World Bank CP team, with
limited participation of the Borrower. The MEN produced a detailed policy letter in 1988,
detailing the major problems in the sector and strategies to resolve them, and participated in the
project preparation studies. As the Borrower did not participate extensively in preparation, its
performance is not rated.
1.42   Implementation. The Borrower's performance in project implementation was generally
satisfactory, with an average performance rating of 2, both on overall status as well as on
achievement of development goals, as per ratings in supervision reports. However, as noted above,
there were significant implementation problems in certain components, especially the textbook
component. During 1990/91, the ratings deteriorated to an average of "3," primarily because of
the country's political instability. Ratings improved when the situation stabilized and when the
Bank began to strongly encourage the Chadians to develop their own solutions to implementation
problems. Disbursement ran one year behind appraisal estimates. Disbursement averaged over
US$3 million per year after the first year of effectiveness, and the funds allocated were almost
completely disbursed in 6 1/3 years, both rather better than the average for education projects in
Africa. Rapid tumover of staff reduced management efficiency throughout the implementation
stage of the project, although the project was able to supervise a large number of scattered civil
works sites.
1.43   Procurement was conducted by the project accountant, a position which also experienced
frequent tumover. The events of 1990 destroyed the majority of project archives and financial
records, making it impossible to examine, ex post, the procedures for procurement exercises
conducted before that time. The only pro formas kept in project files were the pro formas of the
supplier who was chosen, making it impossible to verify the rationale for choosing the particular
supplier. Order forms were not numbered, did not provide for the identification of the supplier or
for the category of expenditures. In 1992, the auditors were unable to certify the audit results and
declared project financial records unreliable, as there were insufficient intemal controls, despite the
repeated recommendations of the auditors to strengthen the accounting systems. In 1994, 63, 216,
474 CFA was reimbursed by the Government and canceled from the Credit after auditors found
that items totaling that amount were improperly procured. Government counterpart funding
requirements were unevenly respected, although complied with at the end of the project.
1.44   Compliance with Loan Covenants. The majority of loan covenants were fulfilled, but
covenants regarding the regular payment of teacher salaries, the implementation of changes in
MEN's organization and methods and the distribution of manuals for school construction and
maintenance were only partially fulfilled (in addition to the 1992 and 1994 audit deficiencies noted
above). This relatively complete compliance was a sign of the advances that the sector in Chad has
made in increasing project management capacity.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.45   The project achieved most of its major physical objectives and its outcome is rated
satisfactory on balance, due especially to its success in constructing and renovating classrooms,
training teachers and supervisory personnel and formulating a long-term sector policy, which has



Implementation Assessment                                                          11
already contributed significantly to the preparation of the follow-on project, preparation of a future
inter-ministerial project in technical and professional training and encouraging donor activity and
coordination in the sector.  Difficulty in implementing the project's administrative policy
objectives, the mismanagement of the textbook component and the high turnover of trained
personnel make its sustainability uncertain and keep it from being rated highly satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
1.46   Future Operation. In the short term, many of the outcomes of the project under review
are to be supported and will be expanded by the follow-on project. That project, Basic Education,
will support: (a) the protection of primary education's share of the education budget; (b) the
maintenance of classrooms constructed and renovated during the project under review; (c) an audit
of the textbook component of the project under review, to identify major sources of loss; and (d)
the development, by MEN personnel, of an action plan to improve management of existing stocks
of materials and promote responsible management of the materials to be purchased under the
follow-on project. The plan will include: (i) information campaigns targeted at communities and
merchants to encourage them to maintain stocks of textbooks, teachers' guides and materials in
order to benefit students; (ii) training of teachers and superyisory personnel in the utilization and
maintenance of textbooks and materials; (iii) incentive programs to reward schools and personnel
for exemplary management of textbooks and materials; and ~iv) a program of sanctions to respond
to individuals who do not respect the laws of the Republic of Chad regarding the use of public
property. The follow-on project will also continue training\, teachers and supervisory personnel.
The issue of frequent personnel transfers remains unresolved, although sector personnel are
designing a system requiring contracts between supplementary teachers and communities, and the
MEN has committed itself to stringently applying texts regulating transfers of civil service
teachers. Local authorities are working with APEs to increase retention of trained supplementary
teachers through stabilizing salary payments and developing a data base of supplementary
teachers, which will enable communities to have access to trair4ed teachers when they decide that
schools in their communities are in need of additional personnel. The FAC is also supporting
improvements in personnel management, but many of the transfers are based on non-sectorial
decisions and will be difficult to avoid. The Government has developed a plan for future
operations, which is included as part of the Borrower's evaluation report (Appendix B) and further
elaborated in Table 6 (Part II: Statistical Annexes).
1.47   In the long-term, the future operation of the project is uncertain. It will depend on the
reasons cited above (Section D, Project Sustainability), and the commnitment of Government to
retaining trained personnel.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.48   This operation was the fourth education project in Chad, but the first to receive a
satisfactory rating. In part, its relative success was due to increased country stability, but its
implementation record is largely the result of realistic program design, a flexible approach to
irmplementation that allowed the adaptation of strategies to fit the evolving country and sector
contexts and adequate Bank supervision.



12                                             ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
1.49   The following key lessons were learned during project implementation:
(a)    A project with well-defined and limited objectives can succeed in an unstable
country context, given adequate resources and supervision,
(b)    Technical objectives are more likely to succeed in unstable contexts than are
policy reform objectives;
(c)    Indicators of project success should have been addressed explicitly in the SAR
although they were compiled from various sections of the SAR and reviewed
consistently during supervision;
(d)    Implementation is obviously hampered by frequent transfers and large-scale losses
of supervisory staff, Government officials and trained personnel. In the future,
emphasis should be placed not only on training adequate numbers of appropriate
staff, but also on developing a policy framework that increases personnel stability
and requires personnel changes to be based on sector needs. As supplementary
teachers now make up 50 percent of Chad's teaching force, measures should be
developed to increase stability in that group as well, in order to sustain the benefits
of investments in training and increase school quality.
(e)    In a large country with significant transportation barriers, such as Chad, it is
unrealistic to expect projects to be controlled entirely from the center.
Decentralization of responsibilities will increase implementation efficiency,
provided that adequate information, training and guidance (in addition to resources
and authority) are given to local implementation units. This decentralization
should begin at the project identification stage.  Related to this, information
regarding IDA procedures and expectations needs to flow from IDA to national
teams, and information on  project objectives, implementation strategies and
budgets needs to flow from national teams to local implementation units.
(f)    The textbook component provided a related lesson: The inability of the centralized
government to control activities on the local level and its unwillingness to
decentralize responsibilities has resulted in an atmosphere conducive to fraud.
Local administrative units must be encouraged to take action at their level to
supervise schools, including materials and personnel. Bank supervision might have
been able to limit losses in the component if the Borrower had been required to
take strong, early action to address visible irregularities. A second lesson from
this component, crucial because the availability of textbooks and pedagogical
materials is one of the most important determinants of school quality, is that
instructions given to local communities and schools regarding the use and
conservation of textbooks and other equipment and supplies must be carefully
developed. Over-emphasis on conservation of books and supplies can lead to non-
use. Teachers and school directors should be evaluated on the proper use and
management of stocks, not on how many remain untouched by students.
(g)    Communities are often overburdened with teacher salary payments, school
maintenance and the individual/family costs of schooling. Poverty limits the ability
of parents to contribute to school activities, despite their desire to do so, and the



Implementation Assessment                                                          13
amount that families can contribute to schooling is limited, and mintimal relative to
the costs of the current system. The iniability of the AFVP to raise 10 percent of
costs from community contributions is evidence of these limits. Families will only
be able to contribute significant percentages of operating costs if the current
system is revised to be less costly (as is already occurring, through reliance on
commnunity-paid teachers, who are much less costly than Govemment hired and
paid teachers, use of minimal physical facilities and limited supplies of teaching
and learning materials), and the amounts that they are encouraged to contribute
must be evaluated realistically. A sustainable education system in Chad, which
would be heavily reliant on community financing until the country's economic
situation changes drastically, may have to be designed on a revised model, that
focuses expenditures on low-cost items. and strategies critical to student learning.
These could include, for exarnple, encouragement of community-built physical
facilities, development of capacity to produce local teaching and leaming
materials, reinforcement of APEs to strengthen school-based management and
continued training of supplementary teachers.
(h)    Although particular components of the project under review were not successfully
implemented, the experiences of the personnel involved have cohtributed to the
development and implementation of the follow-on project. For example, the pilot
project to improve the timeliness of payment of teacher salaries was not
implemented, but the realization that the education sector could not function if
teachers were not paid regularly, and that, given the economic and political
situation in Chad, special measures needed to be developed, becamne accepted. As
a result, the process of developing a practical mechanism for accomplishing that
goal became much more participatory and the Teacher's Guaranty Fund of the
Basic Education Project was developed. The processes of implementing other
project components produced similar results, whether or not they were wholly
implemented.



14                                                                 ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 2.1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of                                                                                           Not
Objectives                       Substantial                Partial          Negligible                Applicable
Macro policies                     0                         0                 0                         0
Sector policies                   0l                         O                 O                         O
Financial objectives               O0                                          0                         0
Institutional development          0                         0                 0                         0
Physical objectives                0                         a                                           O
Poverty reduction                  0                         0                 0                         O
Gender issues                      O0                                          0 O
Other social objectives                                      a                 a                         0
Environmental objectives           O                         0                 O                         0
Public sector management           O0                                                                    0
Private sector development         0                         0                 O                          0
Other (specify)                    0                         0                 O                         Q
B. Proiect sustainability                   Likelv                    Unlikely          Uncertain
0                         0                 0
C. Bank performance                         Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                              O                                           a
Preparation Assistance                      a                         0                 0
Appraisal                                   a                         o                 0
Supervision                                 a0                                          0
D. Borrower Derformance                     Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                 0                         na                0
Imnplementation                             O0                                          0
Covenant Compliance                         00                                          0
Operation                                   0                         to bedet.         0
E. Assessment of outcome                    Highly
satisfactorv              Satisfactory     Deficieht
0                         0                 0



Statistical Tables                                                                                              15
Table 2.2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
- CrI tfitle -                     -   .    -rp=e 5    - .   . .            :f    Yearof         Status
Previous      __                                                             I
Operations:
Cr. 126-TD      Establish a teacher training college and a training center for     1968        Completed
agriculture technicians.                                                          1976
Cr. 251-TD      Construct and equip a technical secondary school; convert some     1971        Completed
existing technical schools into vocational trainiiig centers; transfer            1979
an agricultural training center to a new location; and conduct a
study on the training of young farmers.
Cr. 811-TD      Support primary education in rural areas by replacing schools and  1978         Completed
introducing more efficient administration of education.                           1988
Following
Operations:
Cr. 2501-TD      Increase public expenditure on primary education; increase         1993         Effective
efficiency in the use of primary school teachers and classrooms;
promote girls' participation in primary education; and encourage
private initiatives in the provision of education.
Source: Bank SAR
Table 2.3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in  Project Cycle                    Date Plunned                       Daite Actual/
--   -                    .                     .             : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Latest E,stimate c
Identification                             N/A                                January 28, 1988
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                N/A                                March -November 1987
Appraisal                                  February 1988                      Janary 1988
Negotiations                               N/A                                June 6-15, 1988
Letter of Education Policy                 N/A                                June 17, 1988
Board Presentation                         June 1988                          August 2, 1988
Signing                                    N/A                                August 25, 1988
Effectiveness                              November 1988                      November23, 1988
Mid-term Review                            N/A                                N/A
(if applicable)
Project Completion                         June 30, 1994                      December 31, 1994
Loan Closing                               December 31, 1994                  December 31, 1994
Source: Project IEPS, hEPS, SAR, Supervision Reports



16                                                                          ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
Table 2.4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVI. Esi IMA1TD ANI) A(TuAL IN MILLION UJS DOLLARS
DA Flcat .::                               .x. .-                                          - -;                         Y
_~~ ...........  __
IDAFhc*i    94J                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~949
Appraisal           5.70            10.10            14.80           18.60           22.00
Estimates
Actual              1.62             4.23           10.95            13.90            18.35           20.95           21.97
Actual as %         28.00           42.00           74.00            75.00           83.00            95.00           99.00
of estimate
Date of final disbursement April 12, 1995
Source: SAR, LOAAF
Table 2.5: KEY I,NDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMLEMENTATION
L IC y l aipeMathm ildkators h SAR'                        s6tlaAed                                      tul
A. Policy Fraunework
Increase share of educati6n in total Government recurrent budget   11% at start of project             14% (1994)
Protect share ofprimary education in education budget      at least 51%                                44% (1994)
Monitor changes in scholarship funding                     under 15% oftotal education budget          10%
Monitor budget allc -ations for materials                  40/0, intended to increase to 13,% of total  4%
education budget
Be Primary Education ]Rehablitation
Construct classrooms                                       about 400                                   Modified, see below
Renovate classroons                                        about 600                                   Modified, see below
Equip renovated and constructed classrooms                  1,000 classrooms                           Modified, see below
Provide textbooks and teachers' guides to classrooms       600,000                                     522,000 (distributed plus
260,000 financed by
French Cooperation).
Train supplementary teachers                                1,750                                      1,422
Train teacher supervisory personnel                        7 inspectors, 34 elementazy inspectors, CRFC  14 inspectors (Provincial
personnel, about 60 pedagogical advisors and    Representatives)750
600 school directors                       school directors, 120
pedagogical advisors.
Construct and renovate classrooms                          S00                                         330 constructed, 380
renovated
Equip renovated and constructed classrooms                 Equipment for 800 classrooms                Equipment for 680
classrooms
As no performance indicator Table was provided in the SAR or the President's Report, these have been assemnbled from
targes mentioned in various pats ofthe SAR.



Statistical Tables                                                                                           1 7
Table 2.6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
I  ..    ....'.; -.-se ...n'o ... __    
PwiJ*~t b~Pt~t tO bOaltons Being Takena         Issae Remaining              Actions Planned
Continue to increase     Included as priority in      General lack of
budgetary funding for    Government's ETE strategy.   resources results in
education                                            insufficient funds for
education, although
education's share of
budget is relatively high.
Continue to protect      Included as priority in      Related to above issue:
prinary's share of       Government's ETE strategy;   although primary's share
education budget         also supported by follow-up    of budget is high, actual
Basic Education Project.    resources are
insufficient.
Maintain new and         Appropriate division in MEN   Maintenance guides     Distribute maintenance guides;
renovated classrooms     AprpitdiiiniME               Maneacguds              Dsrbtmitnnegies
is coordinating maintenance    produced by project   establish database of educational
activities with local       were not distributed;    buildings with information on
authorities and APEs; also  distribution will be     renovation and construction
supported by follow-up Basic  supported by follow-up    needs; organize APf's to
Education Project.          project.                 collaborate with local authorities
to maintain schools; and conduct
repairs as necessary.
Maintaining stocks of    MEN staff in process of      Books continue to be    Action plan developed by MFN
textbooks and teachers'    developing range of measures  sold in markets around    follow-up committee includes
guides                   to limit theft, including    the country and         steps to: (a) recuperate and
police action; will also    personnel at various     redistribute stolen textbooks; (b)
recuperate stolen books and    levels of the education    train teachers and supervisory
redistribute them to schools;   system are implicated.    personnel in correct textbook use
teachers and supervisory                             and management; and (c)
personnel to be trained in                           develop awareness campaigns
maintenance and use of                               aimed at merchants and
textbooks; also supported by                         communities.
follow-up project.                                                                 l
Limiting losses and      Local authorities working    Emphasis on sectoral    Implement system requiring
transfers of trained     with APEs to increase        needs in personnel      contracts between supplementary
personnel                retention of trained         management decisions    teachers and communities.
supplementary teachers and    remains insufficient.
developing a system
requiring contracts between
supplementary teachers and
communities; MEN has
committed to stringent
application of texts regulating
teacher transfers;-
improvements in personnel
management supported by
French Cooperation being
implemented.



18                                                             ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
Table 2.7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Stu.dy               Purpose as deftned at.     .       . . Status      .  Impact of the study
.......______:_____..           appraisalkredefined.  ..     .     .     .
1. Payment of teacher    Describe procedures used to pay    Completed February   Used to develop program to
salaries                 Government teachers; formulate    1988.                 improve payment
propositions to increase timeliness                    procedures. Contributed to
of payment; and evaluate total                         development of a salary
salary arrears existing at the time                    fund, a key element of the
of the study.                                          follow-up project.
2. Repetition and dropout   Determine mains causes of    Completed August        Contributed to development
repetition and dropout and suggest  1990.              of teacher and supervisory
strategies to reduce them.                             personnel training and to
sector policy development.
3. School mapping pilot  Elaborate methodologies of school  Completed October    Enabled personnel of school
study                    mapping by using them in one    1989.                   mapping unit to gain "hands
administrative area and produce                        on" experience in school
sample report.                                         mapping and produced a
valuable data source for
education decision makers.
4. Community initiatives    Assess existing initiatives and  Completed under PPF.    Increased effectiveness of
develop strategies to enhance                          community outreach and
community participation in project                     participative planning in
activities.                                            school construction and
renovation component.
5. Organization and      Improve targeting of project    Completed under PPF.    Used to enhance project
methods of MEN           investments, including equipment,                       design.
technical assistance and training.
6. Distribution and control   Evaluate distribution and use of    Completed April 1989.   Aided in formulation of plan
of teaching and learning  materials purchased under the                         for material distribution and
materials                Third Education Project, develop a                      control for project under
plan for distribution and control of                   review.
materials to be used in the project
under review, evaluate the ability
of parents to contribute to costs.
7. Development strategy  Elaborate sector strategy to be  Completed February     Assisted in preparation of
for the education sector in   used by Government.        1990.                   Education-Training-
Chad                                                                             Employment (ETE)
Strategy.
8. Problems in teacher   Evaluate teacher training       Completed January      Increased effectiveness of
training                 programs and centers, determine    1990.                teacher training component
potential methods and required                         through evaluations of
resources for rapidly increasing                       existing programs and
pool of trained teachers.                              suggestions for increasing
effectiveness.
9. Factors determining   Identify the principal factors  Never completed. All
academic achievement of    affecting school performance  project documents and
primary school students                                  data were destroyed
during events of
December 1990.



Statistical Tables                                                                                        19
Table 2.8A: PROJECT COSTS (IDA CREDIT)
-pp-ais-l-Estiia-e -U-S M- - - AIfpNte isal  tlS stim(I
Item                   Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign
Costs       Costs                   Costs       Costs       Total
Civil Works                           2.80        2.80        5.6         2.77        2.77        5.54
Furniture and Non-Pedagogical         0.10        2.70        2.80        0.09        2.17        2.26
Equipment                                     _                                                          l
Pedagogical Materials                 0.00        2.80        2.80        0.00        3.95        3.95
Specialist Services                   0.35        3.15        3.50        0.51        4.59        5.10
Training and Fellowships              2.18       0.216        2.40        2.10        0.21        2.31
Operating Costs                       0.00        2.30        2.30        0.00         1.65       1.65
Study Funds                           0.00        0.30        0.30        0.00        0.24        0.24
PPF                                   NA          NA          0.575       NA           NA         0.52
Unallocated                           NA          NA          1.725       0.00        0.00        0.00
Sub-Total                             5.43       14.28       22.00        5.47        15.58       21.57
Total (adjusted for currency          5.43       14.28       22.00        5.47        15.98       21.97
fluctuations)
* *Source. LOAFF Report (roundedfigures)
Table 2.8.B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USS M)        ActuaUlLatest Estimate (USS M)
Source                                Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
IDA                                   3.90        18.10      22.00       5.47**    15.58**      21.97
Government Contribution               0.60         0.80        1.40      0.29***    0.39***     0.676***
Community Contribution (in kind)      1.50         0.30        1.80      0.725      0.00        0.72
Total                                 6.00        19.20      25.20       6.5       16.37       23.37
**Source. LOAFF Report (roundedfigures)
***Source: Project Audit report, April 1995. Actual expenditures:  194,657,317 FCFA. Calculated on the basis of 288
CFA/dollar (1993 rate).
Table 2.9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) and therefore
there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes. Furthermore, no pararneters were given at
appraisal with regard to cost-effectiveness.



20                                                                                                          ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
Table 2.10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DCA     DESCRIPTION O~~F CoVE...     T ENArMNAN'.T  RESN                   QRIU -A ..V.. .MMNT
RE    i1 0 .eS TEt l- l001 SWNPS"AWS I MMT                                                                   DATE
3.01            The Borrower declares its comnmitment to the   4,5           CP                                            Regular salary payment is
objectives of the project as set forth in                                                                 improving, but the budgetary
Schedule 2 of this agreement & to this end                                                                and organizational effort has
shall carry-out the project through the men                                                               to be continued under the
with due diligence and efficiency & in                                                                    follow-up project (Education
conformity with appropriate administrative,                                                               5). Government counterpart
financial and educational practices, & shall                                                              funding not always timely.
provide, as promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services & other resources required.
3.02            Except as IDA shall otherwise agree,                                                                       Fulfilled
procurement of goods, works & consultants'
services required for the project & to be
financed out of the proceeds of the credit shall
be governed by the provisions of schedule 3 to
this agreement
3.03 (a)        The Borrower shall, by 09/30 in each year the  9,11           C                                            Fulfilled
project is being implemented, furnish to IDA
for its review & comnent: 1) a report on the
execution of the program & the project during
the previous year in such detail as IDA shall
reasonably requests; 2) a draft detailed impl.
schedule for the following yr.; 3) the draft 3-
yr., rolling investment program for the educ.
sector, & 4) draft budget law.
3.03 (b)        The Borrower shall, by 11/30 of each yr. the   9,12           C                                            Fulfilled
project is being implemented, review with IDA
the program achieved in carrying out the
program & the project & agree with IDA on
the draft documents referred to under para. a)
above. During the review, which shall take
place 11/30/89. the Borrower shall also agree
with IDA on proposed target zones for the
sectoral policy framework.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                                               21
EfE                                             I ---           -I}-               DATE  - -- |
.~~~~~~ ....                                                      o 
3.04            The Borrower shall by 06/30/89, furnish    10            CP            06/30/89                         Partially fulfilled. Manuals
to IDA for comments, draft manuals on                                                                   drafted, submitted to IDA and
classroom construction, rehabilitation and                                                              will be distributed under follow-
maintenance, & promptly after taking                                                                    up project.
into consideration IDA's comments,
distribute said manuals in the project
area.
3.05            The Borrower shall not later than          9,2           C             12/31/88                         Fulfilled
12/31/88 establish within DEE a teacher
training monitoring unit.
3.06            The Borrower shall: a) furnish to IDA for  9,12          CP            12/31/88                         Study (financed byAfDB) was
comments not later than 12/31/88 the                                                                    given to IDA and discussed, but
study of MfN's organization and                                                                        the study's recommendations
methods; and b) implement not later than                                                                were not fully implemented.
06/30/89 those recommendations of said
study agreed upon with IDA.
3.07            The Borrower shall: a) take all necessary  9,11          CP            11/30/89                         The scheme agreed upon during
actions required to ensure regular                                                                      04/91 mission was implemented
payment of education personnel salaries                                                                 only on a pilot basis, and has
on the basis of at least 60% of their                                                                   since been discontinued. A new
nominal 1967 value, and b) in order to                                                                  mechanism is being tried in the
carry out part B.3 of the project; within                                                               follow-up project.
the framework of ongoing studies to
improve budget execution procedures,
prepare a scheme to ensure regular
payment of civil servants salaries.
3.08            The Borrower shall maintain at all times    5            C                                              Fulfilled. The PIU director was
during the execution of the project the                                                                 changed 4 times.
fulll-time positions of project director,
accountant, project adnirustrator &
educator/education planner, said
positions to be filled at all times with
personnel whose qualifications &
experience are satisfactory to IDA.



22                                                                                                        ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
DCAif          E3 ESC: A::::  OF C         O:RANT    COVENANT:  PRESENT            ORIGINAL    1    REVISED                 (ZCGO MM   TS
TYPE     ~STATUS:  FULFILLMENT    UFLLEi
309             In order to carry-out part B.7 of the project,  9,12        C                                             Fulfilled. Round table held in
the Borrower shall through the "Cellule de                                                                Nov. 1990. Govt. translated
reflection sur le developpement de                                                                       ETE targets into an action
I'education" formulate a global human                                                                    program, which contributed
resource development strategy. Any                                                                        significantly to the
additional activity to formulate said strategy                                                            prcparation of the follow-on
& proposed for financing out of the proceeds                                                              project and to increasing
allocated from time to time to category (7) of                                                            donor activity in the sector.
table in para. I of schedule I to this
agreement, shall be submitted to IDA for
approval.
4.01 (a)        The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be     I            CP                                            Events of 1990 destroyed
maintained records & accounts adequate to                                                                archives and records, making
reflect in accordance with sound accounting                                                              it impossible to examine
practices the operations, resources &                                                                     accounts dated earlier than
expenditures in respect of the project or any                                                             1/91. Audits not certified in
part thereof                                                                                              1992, due to weaknesses in
intemal accounting system.
4.01 (b)        The Borrower shall I) have the records &      1,9            C                                            Fulfilled.
accounts referred to in para. a) of this section,
includi!g those for the special account for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA; 2) furnish to IDA as soon as
available, but in any case within 6 months of
end of fiscal year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors.
4.01 (c)        For all expenditures with respect to which    1,9            C                                            Fulfilled.
withdrawals from the credit account were
made on the basis of SOE, the Borrower
shall: I) maintain or cause to be maintained,
in accordance with para. a) of this section,
records and acounts reflecting such
expenditures; 2) retain until at least I yr.
after the Association has received the audit
for the FY in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit account was made



Statistical Tables                                                                                          23
Covenant Class:
Accountlaudit
2           Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3           Flow and utilization of Project funds
4           Counterpart funding
5           Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6           Environmental covenants
7           Involuntary resettlement
8           Indigenous people
9           Monitoring, review and reporting
10          Implementation
11          Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12          Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
1 3         Other
Status:
C           Complied with
CD          Compliance after Delay
NC          Not Complied With
SOON        Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP          Complied with Partially
NYD         Not Yet Due
Table 2.1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title              f       Describe and commnnt on lack of co.ip1iate  -
There was compliance with all operational manual statements.
Table 2.12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Staige bfprnject eyde              Planised                     Revlsed                      ct.u
Weeks          US$          Weeks          iUSS        Weeks         US$*
Through appraisal                NA             NA            NA            NA            95.3      285,900
Appraisal through Board          NA             NA            NA            NA            74 1      222,300
Approval
Board Approval through           NA             NA            NA            NA           NA           NA
Effectiveness                 ____N__NA_295_500
Supervision                      NA             NA            NA            NA            98.5      295,500
Completion                       NA             NA            NA            NA            12        36,000
Grand Total                      NA             NA            NA            NA           279.9      839,700
'Based on USS3,000 per staff week.



24                                                                   ICR - Chad: Education Rehabilitation Project
Table 2.13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
..~~~____                                           ~q*,,,, ,,  , .,  _ ... __________
wev4PltaidC)tk       M.ntWYeat      'lof        Staff       Speleme.bUom                      ...          Type of
pervona    Weeks in       Stalt  :        Progress    .Da'elopeent:    :PIa
Field    Skills reprosent4d.  ...  ...    Objetv       _
Through Ap-               2/88         3           2         A/l S. ED. A
Post ApprTl3l                          NA         NA
Appral thn      _                      NA         NA
Bowd thum                              NA         NA          FS, GE, A
Effecrvvmesi
Supavision                2/89         4          NA                             NA             NA        M,TA
8/89         4          1.2        S.A,GE,E            1               I       o,M
12/89        5          5 3        Al GE, E, FS         2              2        O,M
5/90         3          21          A, GE, E           2              2        O,M
8/90         I          NA            GE               2              2        O,M
11/90        2           8             A                3              2       NA
4/91         2           8           A, GE              3              3       M,O
12/91        3          5 4           GE                2              2        0
3/92         3          2 5         GE, TS, E          2              2        0, F
6/92         2          NA           GE. E             2              2        O, M
1/93         1          1 8           GE               2              2        O,L
6193         2          16           GE,OA             2              2        O, M
12/93        I           8            GE                2              2        0, M
6194         1          NA            GE               2              2        P
ConpLctdon                11/94        3          NA           'A GE              S              S        P
ConpletionflCR            3/95        NA          NA             GE              NA             NA        M
A    =  ARCHITECT,
SE   =  EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
E    -  ECONOMIST.
GE   =  GENERAL EDUCATOR,
EP   -  EDUCATIONAL PLANNER.
OA   =  OPERATIONS ANALYST,
RA   -  RESEARCH ASSISTANT,
TS   -  TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST,
FS   =  FINANCIAL SPECIALIST.
TYPES OF PROBLEMS FOR PERFORMANCE RATINGS
O     .  OVERALL STATUS.
L    =  COMPLIANCE W/LEGAL COVENANTS,
M     .  MANAGEMENT.
F    -  FUND AVAIILABILITY,
P    -  PROCUREMvENT PROGRESS,
T    -  TRAINING PROGRESS,
TA   -  TECHNfCAL ASSISTANCE PROGRESS.
S    -  STUDIES PROGRESS.
B    -  ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS,
PERFORMANCE RATINGS:
I    =  PROBLEM FREE OR MINOR PROBLEMS,
2    =  MODERATE PROBLEMS.
3    -  MAJOR PROBLEMS WITH SOLUTION UNDERWAI,
4    -  MAJOR PROBLEMS WITHOUT SOLUTION UNDERWAY (NONE IN THIS PROGRAM).



APPENDICES



26                                           ICR - Cl-4D: Education Rehabilitation Project
TCRAD
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION (Education IV, Cr&dit 1950 CD)
PROJET D'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL (Education V, Credit 2501 CD)
Mission de Supervision IDA
Du 18 Novembre au 2 Decembre 1994
Aide-Memoire
1.     Une mission de I'lDA composee de M. Alain Papineau (specialiste en execution des projets)
et Mme Penelope Bender (specialiste en education/consultante) au departement de l'Afrique centrale
et Ocaan indien; et de M. Makha Ndao (sp6cialiste en 6ducation) au departement de I'Afrique
centrale-occidentale a s6journ6 au Tchad du 18 novembre au 2 d6cembre 1994 pour: (i) superviser
les Projets Education IV et Education V; et (ii) discuter des modalites de preparation de la premiere
revue annuelle du projet education V. La mission a eu des 6changes enrichissants avec Monsieur le
Ministre de l'Education Nationale, ainsi qu'avec les responsables des services centraux et
decentralises du MEN et les partenaires sociaux. La mission a aussi rencontre les representants des
bailleurs de fonds du secteur education pr6sents A N'Djamena. La mission remercie vivement les
Autorites du Tchad, les responsables des services techniques des differents ministeres, les bailleurs
de fonds et les autorites administratives et academiques ainsi que les representants des communautes
organisees de la Prefecture du Moyen-Chari qui ont bien voulu discuter de 1'execution des deux
projets en cours.  Le present Aide-memoire resume les principaux points discutes avec le
gouvemement et les conclusions qui en decoulent.
Extrait: SUPERVISION FINALE DU PROJET EDUCATION IV (Cr&dit 1950-CD)
2.     Le Projet Education IV s'achevera le 31 d6cembre 1994. Globalement, du point de vue du
gouvernement, des bailleurs et des beneficiaires, l'execution du projet est g6n6ralement satisfaisante.
Cependant, it a ete note des lenteurs dans la mise en oeuvre consecutives; (i) aux changements
frequents du personnel du projet et des cadres du MEN; (ii) A des insuffisances de coordination et de
communication entre les bailleurs du secteur d'une part, entre les differentes composantes, et entre
les niveaux central et decentralise du MEN y compris l'implication des beneficiaires d'autre part.
3.     En outre, la mission a constate que, dans certains cas, des manuels scolaires destines aux
6elves se trouvent sur le march6 parallele. Elle a attire l'attention du Ministere de l'education sur la
necessite de prendre le plus rapidement possible les actions visant A recuperer ces manuels se
trouvant hors des ecoles et a les redistribuer dans les classes. II a ete convenu que d'ici le 15 janvier
1995, au plus tard, le Gouvernement informera l'IDA des resultats des actions entreprises y compris
le nombre de manuels recuperes et les modalites de redistribution effective de ces manuels dans les
classes.
4.     La mission a discute des dispositions a prendre pour le dernier mois des activites du projet.
A cet effet, la Direction des Projets devra s'assurer du respect des proc6dures d'acquisition des
travaux, biens et services, veiller a ce que les depenses eligibles soient engagees et encourues avant



AppendixA                                                                             27
le 31 decembre 1994. La mission a aussi fait part de ses commentaires sur la premiere version des
documents presentes par le MEN: (i) le rapport d'evaluation de l'execution du projet du point de
vue du Gouvernement; et (ii) les indicateurs de suivi de F'execution du projet. Des eclaircissements
ont &6 donnes par la mission sur le format et le contenu du plan operationnel relatif A la valorisation
des interventions du projet que le Gouvernement doit preparer. Une version avancee de ces trois
documents devra etre transmises A l'IDA au plus tard le 23 decembre 1994, pour commentaires. Les
versions finalisees de ces documents devront etre transmises A l'IDA avant le 20 fevrier 1995.
5.     Inventaire. La mission a de nouveau insist6 sur l'urgence a conduire et terminer, avant le
15 janvier 1995, l'inventaire des biens acquis sur le quatrieme projet. A cet effet, le projet de
dossier de selection de cabinets comptables presente proposant trop tard une procedure trop longue,
la mission recommande de preparer rapidement un avenant au contrat de l'auditeur des comptes du
projet.
6.     Audit Exercice 1994.  La Direction des projets a informe la mission que l'audit du
quatrieme projet se deroulera en janvier 1995 et le rapport sera transmis A l'IDA avant fin mars
1995.
7.     Compte Special et Contrepartie. La situation du compte special IDA au 15 novembre 1994
et celle de la Contrepartie au 19 novembre 1994 figurent en annexe 3.
8.     L'annexe I detaille les principales actions A mettre en oeuvre prioritairement dans le cadre de
1'execution du Projet Education IV.
9.     Supervision du Projet Education V (Credit 2501-CD).  La mission a discut6 les deux
volets mesures de reformes educatives et investissements du projet et la preparation de la premiere
revue annuelle du projet. Les perturbations de l'annee scolaire 1993/94 et l'ouverture tardive des
classes pour l'annee scolaire 1994/95 d'une part et les capacites limitees en matiere de gestion et
d'execution technique et l'execution tardive du Budget de l'Etat d'autre part ont entraine des retards
dans la mise en oeuvre des volets mesures de politique educative et investissement du projet.
10.    Mesures de politique educative. La mission a insiste sur la necessit6 de terminer avant le
31 decembre 1994:  (a) I'integration dans la fonction publique des 280 nouveaux maitres de
l'elementaire; (b) le recrutement dans les ENI des eleves-maitres; (c) la mise en place des mesures
d'accompagnement pour la double vacation, les classes multigrades et la r6duction des
redoublements; (d) les propositions du Gouvernement consecutives aux recommandations des etudes
deja effectuees sur la promotion de la scolarisation des filles et le developpement de l'enseignement
prive; et (e) la mise en place des cellules decentralisees de suivi du paiement des salaires des
enseignants de l'elementaire.
11.   Investissement du projet. La mission a remis A la Direction des Projets des propositions
d6taillees en vue de la finalisation des conventions ou protocoles d'accord avec l'ATETIP, la GTZ et
l'UNICEF, constituant la teneur minimum que les documents doivent offrir pour 1'acces au
financement de l'IDA. La mission a d'autre part recommande au Directeur des Projets de mettre A
jour le systeme de comptabilite/gestion informatise du projet avant la revue annuelle.
12.    Compte Special. La situation du Compte Special IDA du cinquieme projet au 30 novembre
1994 figure en Annexe 4.



28                                         ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
TCHAD
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION (Education IV, Credit 1950 CD)
PROJET D'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL (Education V, Credit 2501 CD)
EVENTUEL PROJET (Education VI)
Mission IDA du 18 Mars au 12 Avril 1995
Aide-Memoire
1.    Une mission de l'IDA (secteur Population et ressources humaines, D6partement de
l'Afrique centrale et de l'Ocean indien) a sejourne au Tchad du 18 Mars au 12 Avril 1995:
Mme. Penelope Bender, sp&ialiste de l'education (18 Mars - ler Avril); M. Makha Ndao,
specialiste de l'education (25 - 31 Mars); et M. Alain Papineau, architecte et specialiste en
execution des projets (25 Mars - 12 Avril). Les objectifs de cette mission etaient: (a)
achevement de l'execution du projet Education IV; (b) suivi, dont premier examen conjoint
annuel, du projet Education V; et (c) preparation de l'identification d'un eventuel futur projet
Education VI. En outre, lors de son sejour, M. Papineau a simultanement proc6de au suivi du
projet Sant6 et maternite sans risque, ainsi que du projet Population et lutte contre le SIDA,
qui font l'objet d'un autre aide-memoire.
2.      La mission remercie pour leur accueil et leur collaboration les Autorites et
l'Administration Tchadieniies, les Representants des commnunautes et des ecoles, ainsi que les
Representants des Organisations internationales et des bailleurs de fonds qu'elle a rencontres.
3.    Le present aide-memoire resume les principaux points discutes, ainsi que les actions
convenues ou recommand6es qui en decoulent.
Extrait: ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET EDUCATION IV
4.    Le Credit 1950 CD a ete clos le 31 Decembre 1994, comme initialement prevu, et un
delai de trois mois, jusqu'au 31 Mars 1995, a ete accord6 par l'IDA pour achever les
deboursements correspondant aux dernieres activites du projet, pour des depenses engagees et
encourues jusqu'au 31 Decembre 1994. La derniere demande de retrait de fonds (DRF 266
d'un montant de 58.500 $EU pour l'avenant No 2 au contrat PNUD/VNU) a et remise le 31
Mars 1995 a Mme. Bender, qui l'a emportee a Washington ou elle a 6te acceptee par l'IDA. Le
Credit de 16,2 millions de DTS a donc ete presque entierement debours6, et le reliquat du
Fonds Special a et reverse a l'IDA. N'ayant pu etre signes avant la cl6ture, les deux contrats
d'experts comptables, pour l'arret des comptes d'une part et pour l'audit final et l'inventaire
physique d'autre part, ont et imputes au projet suivant (Credit 2501 CD) et seront signes
courant Avril 1995, pour permettre la transmission des rapports d'audit et d'inventaire a l'IDA
fin Mai 1995, comnme convenu.
5.   Globalement, du point de vue de l'Administration, des bailleurs et des beneficiaires,
l'execution du projet a generalement et satisfaisante. La situation de fin de projet est resum6e
en Annexe 1. Les conclusions de la mission d'achevement feront l'objet d'un rapport detaille,



Appendix A                                                                               29
qui sera transmis au Gouvernement Tchadien pour commentaires, avant sa finalisation. Un plan
operationnel relatif a la perennisation des interventions du projet, ainsi que des indicateurs de
performance, ont et finalises et remis a la mission. La version preliminaire du rapport
d'evaluation de la partie Tchadienne a e  discutee lors de la mission, et la version finale sera
transmise a l'IDA avant le 29 Avril 1995.
6.   La mission a constate que des manuels scolaires destines gratuitement aux eleves sont
encore en vente sur le marche parallee, malgr6 l'action corrective initiee. Elle attire donc A
nouveau lattention du Ministere de lEducation Nationale sur la necessite de poursuivre et
meme renforcer cette action visant A r6cuperer les manuels detournes, en collaboration avec le
Ministere de l'Interieur, et A les redistribuer dans les classes. La reussite de cette action et la
mise en oeuvre de mesures efficaces d'amelioration de la distribution et de l'utilisation des
manuels seront un critere majeur de decision pour leurfinancement par le Credit 2501 CD.



30                                                                                                               ICR - CIL4D: Education Rehabilitation Project
TCHAD - PROJET EDUCATION IV - CREDIT 1950 CD
MISSION DE SUPERVISION BANQUE MONDIALE, MARS-AvRit 95
SUJET         SITUATION ACTUELLE  PROBLEMES RENCONTRES   ACTIONS A EFFEC-    DATE BUTOIR  RESPONSABILITE
___ __I    TUER
CONSTRUCTION DE            Reeptions terminees en       Nombre de classes semble varier   Verifier et informer IDA     30 avril 1995        DPB-DGPI/DPE
CLASSES                    d6cembre 1994                selon source
Rapport critique Contr6le d'Etat                              31 mai 1995
(conteste par acteurs)
MOBILIER                   Ameublement acheve dans    Ameublement 30 classes AFVP    Etudier possibilitM sur EdS    des que possible        idem
SCOLAIRE                   classes prevues              suppilmentaires non acquis
(accord principe IDA mais
probleme r6ception projets
avenants avant cl6ture)
MANUELS                    Livraison achevee Nov. 94    Manuels en vente parallele et     Mesures recuperation et      des que possible     DG/DEE/DPE
SCOLAIRES                  (inspections)                partiellement utilises            amelioration distribution et
utilisation
FORMATION                  Achevee (evaluation
preliminaire remise
mission)
RAPPORT                    Projet rapport Gouvern.                                        Finaliser et envoyer IDA     29 avril 1995        DPE
ACHEVEMENT                 discute lors mission
Tous dossiers remis mission
Contrats arret comptes et    Risque retard audit et inventaire    Signature des deux contrats   30 avril 1995
audit/inventaire en cours                                      Execution des deux contrats  15 mai 1995
signature                                                      et envoi                     31 mai 1995
IDA audit et inventaire
Demiere DRF (No 266)
remise IDA 31 Mars 95
Reliquat CS reverse IDA
30 aout 1995



Appendix B                                                31
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD                    UNITE-TRAVAIL-PROGRES
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALiE
PROJET DE REHABILTATION DE L'EDUCATION
(Cr. IDA 1950 CD)
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
(DOCUMENT DE TRAVAIL)
MAI 1995



32                                     ICR - CHL4D: Education Rehabilitation Project
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET DE REHABILITATION
DE L'EDUCATION FINANCE PAR LE CREDIT IDA 1950 CD.
Br6ve descriotion du Doiet et du contexte doex6cution
Le projet de R6habilitation de l'education d'un montant de 25,2 millions de dollars avait pour
objectifs de rehabiliter 1'enseignement elementaire ainsi que les moyens de gestion et de
planification du secteur et de poser les bases du developpement futur du secteur. . La
rehabilitation etait une action d'urgence destine. i restaurer les conditions minimales
d'efficacite de l'acte educatif et da preserver les investissements entreprs par les collecivifts
locales pendant et apres les evenements de 79-81. Le projet comportait deux composantes
pnnapales: (A) la rehabilitation de l'enseognement dlmentaire par (a) un appui aux ICIAPE
pour la rehabilitation ou la construcion de 1000 salles de classe;(b) I'am6lioration de
1'efficacit6 et de la qualite de 1'enseignement et de l'apprentissage , grace i (Oi des dotations
en manuels et foumitures scobires, (ii) la formation de 1750 maires suppl4ants (ii-) le
renforcoement de la supervision et de rencadrement des enseignants; (B) la rehabiliation des
moyens de gestion et de planification du sectour par le renforcement des capacites du MEN
on consolidant les services charges respectivement (i) de planifier, (ii) de gerer le personnel
,(iii) preparerlexdcuter/contrdler le budget (iii) d'6laborer et de suivre la politique du secteur et
enfin (iv) d'executer les projets.
L'ex6cution du projet s'ost d6roul6 dans urf environnement instable en raison
pnncipalement do la faiblesse des capacites institonnellos, du changement fr6quent des
poersonnels du niveau central et de la degiadation des condifions economiques dans le sectour
de i'education ( degradation so 0aduisant par de longues gr6ves des enseignants et f'arits
des enseignements). Malgre cette instabilit6 les objectifs quantitatifs du projets ont ete
globalement atteints.
Les r6alisations oar comoosante
L Composants rhabilitabon de r7nseinement 616mentaire
a. Consuct fonsIrthabilotons
a.1 les aspects auantitatifs. L'objecfff initial de 1000 salles de classes (400 constructions et
600 rehabilitations ) a te revis en avnl 1991 A 800 salles (dont 480 rehabil-tations).330
classes ont Ste construites (103%) et 380 salles de classe ont etA rehabilitAes (79%) soit au
total 710 salles dont 680 equipees. II reste a equiper 30 sallos. Los retards enormes au
demarrage ( 3% de realisation en d6cembre 1991) ont *t6 ratrapt s dans les 3 demieres
annees du projet Durant la demiere phase du projet les sailes de classe ont ete realisees
avec bureau et magasin (56 cas, soit 7% a ajouter au volume total rtalis6).Le projet a utilisi
selon des modalites difflrentes les services de deux operateurs: I'Associabon franraise des
volontaires du progres (AFVP) et los Volontaires des Nations-unies (VNU).



Appendix B                                                             33
a.2 la qualite des travaux realises. La qualite des constructions neuves est reiativement
constante. Le type de batiment realise est robuste et presente peu d 'elements vulnerables. La
duree probable de vie est evalue a environ 30 ans .
La qualite de la majorite des rehabilitation est assez bonne. La dur6e de vie estimee des
locaux rehabilites a ete prolong6e en moyenne de 15 ans ( avec une vanation consid6rable
aliant de 5 a 25 ans).
a.3 l'4volution des couts. Le rapport d'evaluation du projet estimait les coCits des constructons
et des r6habilitations respectivement a 11.960S et 3520 $ . Le mobilier etait estime a 1034$.
Lors de la revision des objecfifs les nouveaux coCts retenus etaient respectivement de
14.793$, 4901$ et 1897 S. En fin de realisation les couts unitaires ont etie respectvement de
10.3115 (5.155.500 F.CFA), 2266 $ (1.133.000) et 2048$, (1.024.000 F.CFA) pour la tranche
AFVP et 15.727$ (7.863.500 F.CFA), 5.228$ (2.614.00 F.CFA) et 1520 $ (760.000 F.CFA)
respectivement pour la tranche dite VNU ( le dollar est pris ici au taux de tS=500 F.CFA).
a.4 participation des APE Le rapport d'evaiuation pr6voyait une contribution des APE de
l'ordre de 965.000$. Cette prevision s'est revelee largement au dessus des capacitis reolles
des APE. La contribution des APEAC dans la fili6re dite AFVP a ete ( en espece ou en nature)
6valuee a environ 5 % de la partie genie civil des travaux, soit environ 3,5% du coat total. On
6value a environ 725.000 $ la contribution supplementaire prise sur le projet
a.5 facteurs de blocaaes identifies. Ces facteurs sont (i) la contradiction entre les choix
techniques et architecturaux fait dans le rapport d'evaiuation du projet et la durabilite
preconisee dans le m6me document(ii) la lenteur des procedures dacquisition des mat6riaux
en raison du manque de competence et d'xprience dans la passation des manmhes ainsi
qu'en raison des difficultEs de planificatibn des travaux de rehabilitation; (ii) la longueur des
negoaations entre le MEN et l'AFVP en vue de concdure un accord satisfaisant pour l'IDA. La
convention avec I'AFVP negociee an novembre 1998 ne sera signe quen mars 1989 et
operationnalisee par un avenant demande par l'IDA on octobre 1989; (iv) les evenement de
decembre 1990 qui ont entratne un arrdt de 5 mois en raison de 'evacuation de l'equipe AFVP
et du pillage des equipements du projet (v) les difficufts rencontrees dans certaines zones
pour la collecte de la contrepartie des APE at enfin (vi) le decalage dans la passation des
marches de n;.obiliers (environ un cinquantaine de classes construites ou rehabilitees n'auront
pas de mobilier a la fin du projet).
a.6. facteurs oositifs. Un certain nombres de facteurs positifs pour l'ex6cution du projet ont
retenu I'attention et devraient 6tre 6tudies pour 1'exEcution des futurs projets. Ces facteurs
sont: (i) la bonne participation des APE dans certaines zones ,r'i) la delegation croissante de
la maitrise d'ouvrage a I'AFVP , Ciil) la continuit6 de service et I'appui soutenu de la
composante par les responsables nationaux impliques dans la realisation des acthvits ( DPE,
DPEC); (iii) I'assistance technique ponctuelle appropriee d'un bureau conseil; (iv) I'applicabon
souple des procddures par la banque mondiale, ce qui a pefmis de comger les problemes
resultants de situations imprdvisibles et de certains aspects du rapport d'evaluation.
a.7 autres interventions de la sous-comoosante. Sur la categorie genie civil ont ete egalement
financee des rehabilitations et des constructions de 7 inspections de l'el1mentaire et de 7
CRFC. Le rapport d'evaluation prevoyait des inteiventions dans quelques IEE et dans 20



34                                     ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
CRFC. Durarft la demiere annee du projet il a ete decide de donner la pnorite aux
interventons sur les ecoles . . En consequence le nombre de CRFC rehabilite est reste en
dessous de l'attente des services utilisateurs (DFAP). Toutefois le faible budget prevu a ete
enberement ublise.
Enfin J'apprciation definitive de l'ex6cution de cette composante est soumise aux
reserves emises dans le rapport de la Commission du Contr6le d'Etat et de Vrifications des
realisabons du Vie projet (Contr6le d'Etat et MEN). Une mission tripartite - Conr3le d'Etat,
MEN, et AFVP) sur les sites est programmee -mais egalement un audit technique de ces
infrastructures est recommande.
b. Manuels scolaires
L'objectif de la sous-composante etait d'ameliorer les conditions d'apprentissage en dotant les
mabts et les ensegnants de manuels et de foumitures scolaires.
Reafisation . Cette composante a beneficie d'un cofinancement de fait de la cooperation
frangaise et de l'IDA. La cooperation frangaise a finance les manuels de lectuLr, I'IDA a
finance les manuels de calcul, de sdences, de geographie et d'arabe ainsi que la distribution
de 1'ensemble des manuels et foumitures. Le projet a commande environ 758.000 manuels (
dont 236 000 finances par Ia Cooperation frangaise). La distribution s'est deroulee en trois
phases: une premiere phase concemant environ 1650 ecoles a vu la distribution de livres et
de foumitures colises par ecole avant I'arnivee au Tchad. La seconde phase a permis une
distribution complementaire aux- ecoles concemees par la premiere distribution et une
distribution initiale pour les ecoles ne figurant pas sur la premiere listes . Cette seconde phase
a touch6 2175 6coles. Le colisage a ete fait au Tchad. Une troisieme phase a permis la
distibution du reliquat de manuels et foumitures dans les prefectures voisines de N'djamena.
Cette troisieme phase a touche 7 Delegation Prefectoraie de l'Educaton Natfonale.
Facteurs de blocages et difficultes rencontr6es.
Les facteurs reperes sont les suivants .
1. Choix des livres. Le livre de lecture retenu pour ie CP n'a pas fait l'unanimite, chez les
enseignants et les inspecteurs. Le guide pedagogique s'est revele trop difficile.
2. De mani6re plus generale, les enseignants ont perdu l'habitude d'uffliser les manuels dans
la conduite de la dasse. Si bien que m6me dans le cas ou les manuels etaient en nombre
suffisant ils n'etaient pas toujours utilises.
3. Le corisage pour la seconde distribution a pose d'enormes problemes organisationnels et a
de ce fait dure quasiment une annee. Ce qui a retarde la distribution dans les ecoles.
4. Les procedures de selection de petits transporteurs capables d'acheminer les manuels
jusqu'aux ecoles n'etaient pas appropri6es. Les transporteurs efficaces ont des difficultes a
soumissionner lors d'un appel d'offres. .Le probleme de distributon jusqu'aux ecoles s'est pO58
pour les trois phases.



Appendix B                                                               35
5. Des difficu4ltes ont ete enregistrees au cours de la distributionet des manuels et des
foumitures se sont retrouves sur le marche.
c. Formation des majts
L'objectif de la sous-composante 6tait d'ameliorer la qualite de l'enseignement et de renforcer
ainsi l'apport des communautes en assurant la fomation des enseignants et des formateurs
de formateurs. Quanttavement robjectif est de fom,er 1750 maltres suppl6ans et 600 directeurs
dcecoles ainsi que 120 formateurs de fomiateurs pendant la duree du pret Pamni los maitres
suppl6ants fomets 200 seront admis dans los ENI.
Realisations. Pendant le projet environ 1505 maitrs suppl6ants (86 % de F'obj;ectit) , 823
directeurs d'ecole (137 % de l'objectif), 120 formateurs de formateurs ont et fornds. Parrni
les maitres suppliants dstenteurs du BEPC 125 ont 6t6 integres dans les ENI.
Au plan qualitaff. Le personnel charge de la supervision et de rencadrement reconnaissent
l'impact positif de la formation sur ta conduite de cdasse des enseignants formes. Cependant
compte tenu des conditions d'exercice et de la pr6caritd des revenus des communautes on
constate une deperdton importante des effectifs de maitres suppleants ausqu'a 50% ?dans
certaines r6gions). En ce qui conceme les 'directeurs d'ecole, la deperdition est encore plus
importante (plus de 65 % dans certaines zones) .
c. Facteurs de blocage identfies.;
1. Le programme de formation n'a pas pu dtre acheve en raison des girves d'enseignants en
1992 et 1993 . Le rattapage des joumoos de greve a eu lieu durant la periode des grandes
vacances qui etait en general reserve. a la fornation des maitres.
2. De meme ie recutement de la demiere promotion de maites suppleants dans les ENI, n'a
pas pu se faire en raison de dispositions de la loi des finances de 1992 qui a bloque les
recutements dans les ecoles professionnelles.
3. L'arret dt; versement par le projet d'indemnites pour l'animation des stages a ou un effet
negatif sur I'Px6cution du projet Ceci provient du fait que dans beaucoup d'autres projets du
secteur de I'education ou en dehors du secteur des indemnit6s sont versees au personnel
executant les actvit6s desdits projets.
4. La forte mobifite du personnel tant au n;voau central qu'au niveau peripheique a aussi
ralenti l'executon des activit6s de la composante. 11 faut a chaque changement un temps de
comprehension des dossiers par les nouveaux responsables.
Facteurs oositifs.
Un certain nombre de facteurs ont joue positivement sur l'ex6cution de la sous-composante
formation. Ces facteurs sont



36                                     ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
1. La pr6paraton des programmes de formation et la formnation des formateurs avant 1'entr6e
en vigueur du projet
2. La bonne coordination entre la cooperation frangaise et le projet pour le demarrage de la
composante.
11 faut egalement noter que les programmes de fornation et les formateurs de formateurs ont
aussi ete utilises par l'UNICEF pour la fomnation de maitres suppleants et de directeurs
d'ecole.
d. Supervision et encadrement des .nsoianrts
Ceite sous-composante visait i am6liorer I'animation et le contr6le p6dagogiqcues et a
renforcer l'impact de la formation. Le projet pr6voyait le financement d'un programme national
de formabon du personnel d'encadrement, I'achat de v6hicules pour les inspections, la prise
en charge de certaines depenses,,de fonctionnement pour les strucres centrales et
d6concentr6es de l'6iimentaire.
R6alisations. Le projet a offecffement financ6 (O) I'acquisition de vehicules (50 quatre roues et
55 deux roues), de matdriei de bureau (64 Roneos, 45 machines a ecnre), des dotations en
carburant et en foumitures de bureau ainsi que (ii) la formation dminspecteurs et de
responsables de CRFC et (iii) la formation de 14 responsables des d6legadons prefectorales
cMoes en 1991.
Factours de blocaces. Cette composante a Mt6 la plus affectee par les evenements de
d--mbre 1991. Trento et un vehicules destines aux inspections doe Fenseignement
lefmentaire  et a des services centraux ont disparu ou ont et  dtruits. En outre
l'approvisionnoment en carburant et rentretien des vehicules restants n'ont pas ete assures
regulArement Les problemes de geston rencontr6s au niveau du projet sont en grande partie
116s A I'entretien des vehicules.
Facteursm ositfs.
Le projet a pu prondre on compte avec souplesse la creation des d6l6gations pr6fectorales et
les besoins en formation decoulant de cette cr6ation pour les 14 responsables des DPEN. Un
programme de formation specialement- con,cu  pour des responsable de structures
d6concentr6es de rducation a ete Mabor6 avec le CIEP de Sevres.
11. Renforcement des capacit6s de oestion du MEN
a. PI.nificaton
L'objectif du projet pour cette sous-composante etait d'ameliorer le processus de collecte et
d'analyse des donnees statistiques et d'autres renseignements utiles.
R6alisations. Le projet a finance (i) a production d'un annuaire statistique informatise ,(ii) deux
etudes pilotes de carte scolaire et fii) la fornation sur place et a 1'etranger dans le domaine de
la planification de l'6ducation.



Appendix B                                                              37
Facteurs de blocage. Les facteurs de blocages reperes sont les suivants:
- les difficultes relatives a l'acheminement et a la recupration des questionnaires;
- la lewiteur et la complexite des procedures d'acquisition des biens et services;
- I'impact negatif des evenements de decembre 90 en ce qui conceme les biens acquis sur le
projet ( vehicule, equipement et materiel pill6s ou endommages);
- la modification de I'approche de la carte scolaire preconisee par l'IDA qui a souhaite
approche decentralisee plut6t qu'une approche a partir du niveau central;
- ia grande mobilite du personnel formr;
Facteurs Dositifs.
Les facteurs positifs pour cette composante ont ete (i) I'apport de l'assistance technique et (ii)
I'intervention du projet en ce qui concerne le fonctionnement de l'unite de planification.
b. gestin budp06Wire at geston du personnel
L'objectif de la sous-composante 6tait d'ameliorer les procedures budg6taires , la gestion du
personnel et le versement des salaires des enseignants.
Les activites de la sous-composante ont ete affetees lors de la suppression de la DAAFM qui
avait la responsabilite de sa mise en oeuvre. Les travaux realises durant les deux premieres
annees du projet ont ete utilises pour la, preparation du projet V, en particulier le fonds de
garantie pour la paiement des salaires des enseignants.
Une plus grande attention devrait dtre port6e a l'exercice et au renforcement de la fonction
gestion au niveau des structures d6concentr6es de 1'education (DPEN).
c. -geston du oiet
L'objectif de la sous-composante etait de permettre que les dispositions insttuonnelles et
administratives adequates soient pnses pour assurer l'ex6cution du projet en cinq ans. Par
I'intermediaire de la Direction des Projets Education (DPE) le MEN assurait (I la passation et
le suivi des marches selon les procedures convenues avec l'IDA, (iH) la gestion des comptes du
projet (iii) la coordination des activites des differentes composantes et (iv) Ie soutien technique
aux directions chargee de l'ex6cution des sous-composantes, (v) la liaison entre l'IDA , le
Gouvemement et les directions du MEN.
Realisatons. La gestion du projet a ete dans 1'ensemble conforme aux dispositions arr6t6es.
134 marches ont ete passes durant 1'execution du projet, la gestion des comptes a donno lieu
a 12 realimentations du compte special pour un montant total de a 266 demandes de
paiement direct Le dialogue avec l'IDA a toujours ete excellent aussi bien dans la forme que
dans la substance. Le projet a ete execute dans les deiais et un nouveau projet ( Education V)
a ete prepare et finance par l'IDA.



38                                    ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
Facteurs de blocaae.
Trois facteurs de blocage ont ete enregistres durant l'ex*cution du projet
1. Ie changement fr6quent de responsables du projet (4 directeurs en 5 ans)  Ctains de ces
changement ont provoquw des tensions dans la relation avec l'IDA en raison de l'absence de
concertation prealablement a ces changements.
2. La complexitA, la lenteur et parfois l'inadaptation des proc6dures d'acquisition de biens ou
de services.
3. le silence de rlDA durant le premier semestre de 1991 , A la suite des evenements de
docembre 1990.
Facteurs oositffs
Le facteurs positif dans le domaine de la gestion du projet a ete la souplesse de I'IDA dans la
recherche de solutions permettant de mieux executer le projet, y compns la prise en compte
progressive au fil des missions d'acffvitSs non prevues ou de modalites d'ex6cution differentes.
Ul. Elaboration dune oolitlous de d6velooement de r6ducation
Le projet a contiibui A la rnalisation d'Atudes et A l'organisation de rencontres qui ont
dhbouche sur I'adoption d'une sbatAie de developpement de l'education sur la periode 1990-
2000, dite stratgie Education-Formation-Emploi. Le modele de developpement de cette
steatgie a W retenue non seulement pour le secteur sante au Tchad, mais a aussi suscite
l'iritArts d'autrs pays de la sous-region.
IV. La formation des cadres du MEN
La formation des cadres du MEN est au coeur de ba stratagie de renforcement des capacites
insttutionnelles dans le secteur. Cette section fait le point sur les formations financees par le
projet
1. fornations non pedagogiques locales. Durant le projet 130 agents du MEN ont suiMn des
formations sur la gestion ou la planification.
2. formations A r5tranger. Durant rexAcution du projet 2 ont suivi des formations a l'etranger.



Appendix B                                                               39
V. Assistance technique. Le projet a utilise 356 h/m d'assistance technique de courte duree
et 116 h/m d'assistance technique de longue duree. La qualite des services acquis est dans
l'ensemble satisfaisante. Cependant les modalites ou les dispositifs de transfert de
competences n'ont pas ete adequats.
V]. Les becons A tirer du oroiet.
Les principales legons a tirer
1. Pour la bonne ex6cution des projet il est necessaire d'avoir une equipe stable d'execution
du projet. Cette stabilite conceme aussi l'IDA car il faut aussi rappeler que le projet IV a connu
trois c task managers > pendant son execution du projet
2. Necessite ameliorer le contr6le inteme de qualite et le dispositif de suivi du projet sur place
en y assocant plus etroitement les bdneficiaires directs.
3. Amelioration des relations entre le MEN et l'IDA notamment la fr6quence des renconbre de
supervision et de suivi des projets. En effet les missions sont des temps forts de l'ex6cufion.
Elle pennettent notamment de reorienter les actions dans le sens d'une plus grande efficacit6,
de darifier les dossiers en cours de traitement On pourrait envisager un systeme permettant
un suivi au Tchad environ tous les six mois entrecoupes par une mission -tous les six mois - du
responsable national du projet a Washington. Ceci permettrait un suivi trimestriel du projet.
4. La necessite de systdmatiser le transfert de competence lors de l'utilisation de I'assistance
technique. Plus largement, la necessite de recourir a une assistance technique locale ou
sous-regionale. Le projet en cours a d6ji pris en compte cet aspect
5. La necessite d'inciure dans les projets une formation de tous les partenaires aux proc6dures
de l'IDA . En effet le fait pour les utilisateurs des services du projet de ne pas comprendre les
procedures de l'IDA rend difficile la tiche de l'unite de projet.
6. En ce qui conceme la composante manuels scolaires, il est indispensable d'envisager la
livraison directement aux ecoies sans stockage internmdiaire ( ou en r6duisant le d6lai de
stockage intermediaire a moins d'un mois).
VII. Mesures your une Derennisation des investissements.
Afin de proteger les investissements faits dans Je cadre du projet IV, le gouvemement compte
prendre les deux mesures suivantes:
1. En ce qui concerne les batiments construits dans le cadre du projet, le
gouvemement a acquis 5000 guides d'entretien de batiments et compte organiser a
l'intention des APE des sessions de formation a l'entretien des batiments scolaires.



40                                   ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
2. En matiere de conservation des manuels faire creer dans chaque ecoie un comite de
gestion des manuels et foumitures scolaires. Ces comites sont en train d'etre installes.
3. En matiere de formation des maitres 6tudier et mettre en oeuvre des mesures visant
a encourager le d6veloppement des ecoles communautaires. 11 sera preconse, pour
reduire les deperditions, le systbme de contrat entre les communautes et les maitres
suppleants qui auraient subi une formation, et en ce qui conceme les btulaires, il
s'agira d'appliquer les textes relatifs aux affectations.



Appendix B                                                                  41
Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Chad
Education Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1950-CD)
Translation and Summary of Critical Points of Borrower's Evaluation
1. Brief Description of Project
The Education Rehabilitation Project (US$ 25.2 million) aimed to: (a) rehabilitate
elementary education; (b) improve sector management and planning; and (c) develop a
base for future development of the sector. The project was urgently needed to restore
minimal conditions in the sector and to preserve community investments after the events
of 1979-8 1.
The project was executed in an unstable environment, mainly due to insufficient
institutional capacity, frequent changes of central level personnel and deteriorating
conditions stemming from  long teacher strikes and school closings.  Despite this
instability, the quantitative objectives of the project were globally realized.
2. Achievements by Component
Construction/Renovation
Difficulties encountered included: (a) contradictions between the techniques and
design specified in the SAR and the durability of the buildings demanded in the same
document;  (b) the slowness of procurement due to the inexperience of staff and
difficulties in planning the rehabilitation work; (c) the length of time it took for the MEN
and the AFVP to negotiate a contract which was satisfactory to IDA; (d) the events of
December 1990, during which project equipment was stolen and destroyed, and which
forced the evacuation of the AFVP volunteers for five months; and (e) the difficulties, in
certain areas, of collecting community contributions.
Positive factors included: (a) the strong participation of APEs in certain areas; (b)
increasing delegation of responsibility to the AFVPs; (c) the continuity in Chadian
personnel assigned to the component; (d) the timeliness of technical assistance; and (e) the
flexible approach to implementation used by the Bank that allowed the correction of
unforeseen problems and of certain difficulties stemming from the SAR.
Finally, reservations voiced by the State Control Commission (Commission du
Contr6le d'Etat) relating to the achievements of this component are noted. A three-party



42                                      ICR- CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
audit, with visits to sites, will be conducted by representatives from MEN, the AFVP and
the State Control Commission.
Textbooks
Difficulties encountered included: (a) the reading book for the first year of
primary school was not the choice of all teachers and inspectors; (b) the teachers' guide
was found to be too difficult; (c) teachers had lost the habit of using books, so even
where sufficient numbers of books were available, they were not always used; (d) the
packaging of the second shipment posed enormous problems and took almost a year,
delaying distribution to schools; (e) selection procedures for small transport companies to
deliver books to schools were not appropriate and efficient companies had difficulties in
submitting bids.  The problem  of distribution to schools existed for all phases.
Distribution caused problems and books and materials were found on the market.
Teacher Training
Up to 50 percent of all trained supplementary teachers have left the education
system, due to the inability of communities to pay teachers on a consistent basis, and more
than 65 percent of trained school directors have been lost in certain districts.
Difficulties encountered included the lack of per diems for teacher trainers which
adversely affected participation, especially as many other projects in the sector and in
other sectors provide per diems.
Positive Points. Strong cooperation with FAC, use of training programs and
teacher trainers in UNICEF programs.
Teacher Supervision
This component was the component the most affected by the events of December
1991. Thirty-one vehicles disappeared or were destroyed. The management of the
vehicles caused considerable problems.
Reinforcing the Management Capacities of the Ministry of Education
Planning. Difficulties encountered included: (a) difficulties in distributing and
collecting questionnaires; (b) the slowness and complexity of procurement processes; (c)
the events of December 1990, which destroyed much of the project's equipment; (d) the
difficulty of implementing the decentralized method of school mapping advocated by the
Bank; and (e) the mobility of trained personnel.
Positive factors included the help of technical assistance and the project's
interventions in the Ministry's planning unit.



Appendix B                                                                 43
Budget and Personnel Management. The activities of the sub-component were
halted after the abolition of the Budget and Personnel Directorate, which had been
responsible for implementation.  The work realized during the first two years of
implementation, especially the development of the Teachers' Guaranty fund, was used in
the preparation of the follow-up project. More attention should have been paid to the
reinforcement of the Ministry's regional structures.
Project Management. The Project Implementation Unit assured (a) correct use of
procurement procedures and management of the Special Account; (b) coordination of
project activities and provision of technical support to executing directions; and (c)
coordination between the Bank, central MEN offices and the implementing MEN units.
Dialogue with the Bank was consistently excellent, in form and in substance. The project
was executed on time, and a follow-up project was prepared and approved prior to the
closing of the project under review.
Difficulties encountered included: (a) frequent changes in personnel, some of
which produced tensions with the Bank, as the Bank was not informed prior to the
changes;  (b) the complexity, the slowness and sometimes the inappropriateness of
procurement procedures; and (c) the silence of the Bank during the first semester of
1991, after the events of December 1990.
Positive factors included the flexibility of the Bank in searching for solutions to
improve project execution, including allowing the introduction of activities that were not
originally foreseen and allowing execution methods other than the ones originally
envisaged.
Elaboration of Education Sector Policy
The project contributed to studies and seminars which culminated in the
formulation and adoption of an education sector strategy for the years 1990-2000, called
the Education-Training-Employment (ETE) strategy. This process served as inspiration
for the execution of a similar strategy in the health sector and in other countries of the
sub-region.
Training of MEN Staff
130 MEN staff were trained in planning and/or management. Two MFN staff
attended overseas training.
Technical Assistance
The project used 356 person/months of short term technical assistance and 116
person/months of long-term technical assistance. The quality of technical assistance was
globally satisfactory. The transfer of competence to national staff was not satisfactory.



44                                      ICR - CHAD: Education Rehabilitation Project
3. Lessons Learned
(a) In order to have good project execution, a stable project implementation team is
necessary. This lesson applies also to Bank staff.
(b) Internal quality control and project supervision would have been improved by
increased collaboration with beneficiaries [MEN units].
(c) Increased contact between the Bank and MEN, especially as regards supervision
missions, would have improved project implementation. In fact, supervision
missions are the intensive times of project execution. They allow the reorientation
of actions to increase efficiency and to clarify work in progress. A system
providing for a Bank supervision mission every six months, combined with a
mission of Chadian personnel to Washington every six months would allow a
trimestrial review of implementation progress.
(d) The transfer of skills from technical assistance personnel to national personnel
must be systematized. Whenever possible, local or regional technical assistance
should be used, as in the follow-on project.
(e) Everyone involved in the project, whether in an implementing agency or a
beneficiary unit, should be trained in Bank procedures.
(f) Textbooks must be delivered directly to schools without intermediate storage. In
the cases when such storage is unavoidable, it must be limited to under a month.
4. Measures to Ensure Project Operation
(a) Construction: the Government plans to distribute a maintenance manual and to
organize training sessions in building maintenance for APEs.
(b) Textbooks and Materials: In order to preserve existing stocks of textbooks and to
ensure the prudent use of materials, a management committee will be created in
every school.
(c) Measures to further encourage community schools will continue to be developed.
A contract system between teachers and communities is envisioned, to reduce
losses of trained personnel. An effort will be made to apply texts limiting transfers
and permitting them only for specified reasons.



IBRD 20901
-                   ~~~      ~      ~~~15'                                       20-
CHAD
\  'EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DE L'EDUCATION
PROJECT REGIONAL SUPPORT CENTERS
*      CENrRES DAPPUI REGIONALIX (CAR) DU                                                                            L    I    B     Y    A
PROJ ET                                                                                                                 B
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
*      ECOLES NORMALES DINS lTUIEURS (ENI)
REGIONAL IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
A      CENTRES REGIONAUX DE FORMATION
CONTINUE (CRFC)                                                                                                                              20-
REGIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
cl  INSPECTORATES                           I                                                                                        N
INSPECrIONS PRINOCPALfS DE
I'ENSEIGNEMENr ELEMENTAIRE (EPEE)
PRIMARY EDUCATION INSPECTORATES     I
oJ    INSPECTIONS DE L ENSEIGNEMENT        I
EtEMFNTAlRE (IEE) 
PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                        BORKOU           -     ENNEDI         -      TIBESTI
CHEF tEUX DE PREFECTURES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPlTAtE 
PREFECTURE ROUNDARIES              |                                            FAYA-LARGEAU
LIMITES DE PREFECTURES             |
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           I
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
O         100         200 KILOmETERS
o       50        100      150 MILES
W IA,.C, f rz                                             IC,
/ 5  ' C'       E R                                                                                         I LN  TI _   N  E
KI A           N                                       AFIA                             N D M
Fr LOONE         Moissa.o       -         \                       L
S~~~~~~~.pobE0u    Gors_ e                                                                                             CENTRA   '  
/    ATITIE 
seN'DJAMENAy GO 
1H ) tA                    Rl  BAiCAtkEP
NIGERIA oa 
sy~~~~~~() 90SSENYA                                             
,/      <  B A G U R I M I    ~~~~G U E R A\                            OA-zm 
00m                                  j   ~~~~~~SALAM1AT              
1     {'           *15                                  1                                         0
{              \@ BO~NGOp                                    
_________r________ _ ____/                                __i_ng__" A                                                          R   ABE
(.J   ^5o; tAYO O    <    r4NDJILE  >    MOYEN  O   \   t//   LISYA  !   REPT18
)                        12zE LOGONE QMoissol                          /    AFRICAN    f                       oNEjYPT
{                             |              o   \        '        ~        ~        ~                 NIOERIA  /  A    v                  
/                                )   ,k=e   /                                     R E P U B L I C    YBI'J- +                                  :
4  (                           15- ,                                                            20-            1 _   -S             ZAIRE      >     ,~OK   A






