Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9094-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 12, 1991
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Division
This document bas a restricted d-stribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 253 (as of January 1991)
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPU      Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (in the Finance and
Administration Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (French loan aid
agency)
FMU       Forest Management Unit
GTZ       Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Aid
Agency)
IGB       Burkinabè Geographic Institute
INERA     National Agricultural Research Institute
IRBET     National Research Institute for Tropical Ecology and Biology
MAE       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MACP      Ministry of Community Development
MET       Ministry of Environment and Tourism
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OMU       Operational Management Unit (in the office of the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
PTC       Provincial Terroir Committee
PTMU      Provincial Terroir Management Unit
TMC       Terroir Management Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMAIY.RY       ..... ............   .....             ............. .  (i)
I.   BACKGROUND
A.  Introduction ........................................... .              1
B. General Features          ......................   .................  1
C.  Natural   Resources               ...................................... ...  2
D. Government Objectives and Strategy .........................             3
E. IDA' s Lending Strategy ................. . .................  5
F. Experience with Past Lending .............................    s
G. Project Background .......................................   6
II.   THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objectives         ......................................  9
B. Summary Description  ..........................................       . 10
C. Detailed Features .......................l...................... l
1. "Terroir" Management Plans in Three Provinces ....         ....... il
2. Combined Forest and Terroir Management in Two Provinces . 12
3. Technical Support in 18 Provinces .......         ................ 14
4. Environmental and Project Impact Monitoring ....         ......... 14
5. Human Resources Development        ............................. 15
6. Management and Studies   ........................... . 17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Burkina Faso in June/July 1990, comprising Ms. D. Lallement (economist and
mission leader), Mr. A. Oka (environmental specialist and project task manager),
Mr. J. Hall (Livestock specialist) for the livestock and human resources
development component, Mr. C. Leduc (Services Specialist) for the human resources
development component, Mr. F. Wencelius (Forestry Specialist) for the forestry
component, Mr. P.N. Pascaud (Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems
Specialist) fo: the envirorunental monitoring component, Mr. L.T. Mpoy-Kamulayi
(Lawyer) for the legal and land tenure component, Mr. Y. Prevost and Ms. J. Hecht
(consultants) for the environmental monitoring component, Mr. C. Bado (World Bank
Field Office) for the overall support, cost tables and logistics, Ms. J.
Nickerson (Staff Assistant) for the cost tables. The mission was accompanied by
Ms. S. Schumacher, MM. H. Wôhl, H. Asche from GT? 7R`- by MM. C. Barrier and V.
Papazian f rom the CCCE. Mr. F. Falloux was the peu - -viewer for the operation.
Ms. M. C. Tsang (Staff Assistant) provided secretarial support in the preparation
of the report. Mr. David Steeds and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing
Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively for the operation.
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



D.   Project Costs .... O** ...... *et...                             le
E.    Financing Plan ......... ....... ...            ...  ... O................. 18
F.    Procuremenit ...... ....... .* ....... .....  . ........ .  19
G.    Disbursement ...................                               21
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Design Principles .       ..........    ..     ...... * ...... 22
B.    Project Management ..        ... ... 0...................... . ... 23
C.    Coordination.........    .           .... .*** ... . * 25
D.    Project Monitoring .............                            ... 26
E.    Financial Management, Accounting and Audits           .26
F.    Implementation and Supervision.                   ...........  27
G.    Environmental Impact      .      ............... 27
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits ............................................. 28
B.    Risks      ................................ ............. 29
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................ 29
ANNEXES
1.    Local Management of Comniunity Lands or "l'Approche Terroir'.
2.    List of Pilot Operations in Natural Resources Management
3.    Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
4.    Project Costs
Table 1: Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 2: Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4: Project Components by Year
5.    Disbursement Schedule
6.    Implementation Schedule
7.    Supervision Schedule
8.    Documents contained in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 22598 : Population, Migration and Transhumance.
IBRD No. 22599 : Physical and Ecological Features.
IBRD No. 22600 : Project Sites Location.



ci)
BURKINA FASO
EK%IRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowert         Burkina Faso
Amountt           SDR 11.5  million (US$ 16.5 million)
Termss            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Beneficiaries:    (i) About 100,000 people in 167 rural comunities who vill
receive full assistance for the design and implementation
of community land management plans; (ii) another 1,000
rural communities or 500,000 people who are already
benefitting from on-going natural resources management
operations and who would receive additional support; and
(iii) Government technical staff who would acquire training
and experience in assisting rural communities with design
and implementation of community land management plans.
ImDlementina
&aencies:         The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock with support f rom
the Ministry of Community Development, the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism for forest management and the
participation of the Burkinabe Geographic Institute, the
National Research Institute for Tropical Ecology and
Biology and the National Agricultural Research Institute.
DescriDtions      This project is the first five-year phase of a long-term
program designed to stop and reverse the process of natural
resources degradation in order to secure sustainable
agricultural growth, to restore biodiversity, and to manage
forests and wildlife sustainably.   Attainment of these
objectives   would   be   sought   through   design   and
implementation of community land management plans, using an
innovative participatory and holistic approach that has
been tested and developed in about 20 pilot operations
initiated in the last five years. The project vill consist
of six componentss (i) design and implementation of
community land management plans for 120 rural communities
in three provinces; (ii) design and implementation of
combined forest and community land management plans for 47
communities and three protected foreste in two provinces;
(iii) technical support to existing operations in 18
provinces; (iv) establishment of national environmental and
project impact monitoring systems; (v) development of human
resources; and (vi) management and studies.
Economic Rate
of Return:        n.a.



(iL)
Benefits:          The project focusses on sustainable management of local
community assets, and can therefore be expected to have a
highly  positive  environmental  im,pact.    The potential
benefits are big because many natural resource management
problems can only be tarkled by some form of communal
endeavor.   Resolution of these problems vill contribute
significantly to securing sustainable agricultural growth.
Specific environmental benefits will be restoration of
biodiversity and sustained management of forests and
vildlife. Another important benefit vill be the learning-
by-doing experienced by community members and technical
staff, and the distillation of best practices - vithout
resorting to blueprints - that vill provide guidance to
others engaged in natural resources management operations.
Risks:             The project has been designed and appraised on the basis of
about 20 pilot operations in natural resources management
that were initiated in the last five years. It cannot yet
be claimed, however, that the ingredients for success have
been clearly determined.  Indeed, one of the conditions of
success in the pilot projects vas site-specificity of the
land-use plans;  blueprints  are not workable,  and the
process of devising appropriate land-use plans requires
skilled and sensitive technical expertise.   Moreover,
Burkina has enjoyed good rainfail since the 1984 drought,
so that the land-use plans designed under the pilot
operations have not yet been put to the test of their
capacity to contend vith bad years.  The main risks are
therefore: (i) climatic variability which, in acutely dry
years, could upset the best-laid community land management
plans and possibly destroy their credibility, and (ii) the
ability of Government services to provide site-specific
counsels to rural communities and to inculcate a sense of
ownership of land management plans by rural communities.
The project is therefore modest in geographic coverage in
this first phase, and has a strong built-in monitoring
system to enable early detection of probleme, so that
remedial action can be taken promptly.



(iii)
ESTIMATED COSTS (net of taxes and import duties)
Z of
Local    Foreign    Total   Base Costs
........ ..... (US$ million).
A. Terroir Management Plans             5.9       2.5        8.4        39
(3 provinces)
B. Terroir/Forest Management Plans    4.9         1.5        6.4        30
(2 provinces)
C. Technical Support                    0.8       0.4        1.2         6
(18 provinces)
D. Environmental Monitoring             0.7       1.5        2.2        10
E. Human Resources Development          1.0       0.1        1.1         5
F. Management, Studies, Reviews         0.6       1.7        2.3        il
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       13.9       7.7       21.6       100
of which
Civil Works: Buildings              0.3        0.3        0.6         3
Land Improvements      6.8       0.8        7.6        35
Vehicles and Equipment               0.7       3.2        3.9        18
Consultants and Studies              1.2       1.2        2.4        il
Training                            1.0        0.1        1.1         5
Incremental Operating Costs         3.@        1.1        5.0        23
Refunding of PPF                     0.0       0.6        0.6         3
Physical Contingencies                  1.0       0.7        1.7         8
Price Contingencies                     1.3       0.6        1.9         9
"OTAL PROJECT COSTS                    16.2       9.0       25.2       117
FINANCING PLAN                     Local       Foreign    Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                          1.4          0.4        1.8
IDA                                10.3          6.2       16.5
Other donors                        4.5          2.4        6.9
TOTAL                                            9.02 2a  2à
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year
92      93      94       95      96       97      98
..... (US$ million)......
Annual            2.0     1.8     2.2      3.0     3.0      3.0     1.5
Cumulative       2.0      3.8     6.0      9.0    12.0    15.0    16.5



BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I.* BACKOROUUD
A. Introduction
1.1         The proposed project aime to stop and reverse the proceas of
natural resources degradation that is threatrning the livelihood of
Burkina'8 rural communities. This would be done through design and
implementation of community land management plans, using an innovative
participatory and holistic approach that has been tested and developed in
about 20 pilot operations initiated in the last five years. The proposed
project does not attempt to deal with the other facets of management of
Burkina'm environment, for which action programs are being developed in the
National Environmental Action Plan that is nearing completion.
B. General Features
1.2         With a GDP per head of about US$280 in 1989, Burkina Faso is
one of the world's poorest countries. The population of 9 million is
growing at an annual rate of 3.3%. Half the population is concentrated on
the Central Plateau with a density of over 50 inhabitants per km2, with
nome areas over 100 inhabitants per km2. In the northern Sahel region, the
population density is 'ow, since rainfall is not sufficient to sustain crop
production; population is scattered to practice extensive livestock
production. In the higher rainfall areas to the south, population was,
until recently, limited by onchocerciasis (riverblindness). This disease
has now been eradicated by concertad international action and spontaneous
settlement of the disease-freed aream has grown rapidly in the 1980m.
Although these "new landm" have provided an important outlet for people
from the heavily-populated central and northern areas, the absolhte number
of people in the latter areas i still increasing and crop, pasture and
forest landm are subject to increasing pressure. In the southern "new
landm" too, natural resource degradation iu a severe menace.
1.3         Real GDP grew by 4% a year between 1982 and 1989, led by
agriculture, mining and government services.  Agricultural growth, as
conventionally measured, averaged 4.7%. This rate is impressive, but it
was achieved in large part by more extensive land use; fallow periods have
been shortened, whereby natural procesmem of maintaining soil and pasture
productivity have been put at increasing risk. Given the population
dynamics, natural remources will come under increasing pressure for the
next decade at leasts prevention of natural resource degradation is
therefore a national priority, and the priority for Burkina's environraent.



-2-
C.    Natural Resources
1.4         Rainfall ranges from lese than 50t mm in the North to 1400 mm
in the extreme South. Rainfall i. highly variablet the coefficient of
variation of annual rainfall is 30% in the north but, even in the eouth, it
iL still as high as 20%. Crop farming and pasture management is made even
more hazardous by large variations in intra-seasonal rainfall distribution.
Risk maragement iL  the key to farming and herding and in generally sought
by more extensive, not intensive, land use.  Moreover, average rainfall
over the last 30 years has been declining (although there ie no evidence
that this is a trend rather than a cyclical movement). Comparison of the
isohyets in the 1950-67 and 1968-87 periode shows a southerly movement of
about 200 km. This "recent" experience cannot but make farmers and herders
even more sensitive to risk management, i.e., more disposed to more
extensive land use.
1.5         Soils are generally poor with seriously depleted structure.  In
the central area, reduced vegetative cover has exposed the soils to
increased water erosion through run-off in the rainy season and to wind
arosion ir the dry season. Water infiltration declined, thereby
threatening plant growth, and accentuating the many other pressures for
more extensive land use. In the "new lands" in the south, slash and burn
cultivation methode used by the settlers tend to increase the propen4ity of
the sail to erode. Nationwide, arable land is estimated at 90,000 km2, or
one-third of the total area. This represents one hectare per person,
already low by African standards except for the fertile East African
highlands. Pasture land ie estimated at one-half of the total area, with
the remaining one-sixth of the area considered as forests.
1.6         Water iL  nowhere easily accessible.  The river systeme are
briefly at flood and quickly dry up. Groundwater iL available at shallow
depth in many parts of the country, although not in the sparsely-populated
east. Sporadic evidence indicates that the shallow water tables are
falling - as would be expected as a consequence of lesser infiltration and
higher runoff - but there is no systematic monitoring of groundwater.
1.7         Fuelwood iL  the main energy source for both rural and urban
households. About 96% of all domestio energy and 86% of national primary
energy iL obtained by burning fuelwood collected from forasts, bush fallows
and bush savannas. Data on annual per capita wood consumption (for fuel
and construction) are not very accurate and available estimates vary from
0.33 to 0.74 m3 per person and per year. This implies a total national
wood consumption of 2.9 to 6.6 million m3/year. The latter figure far
exceeds, for moeN areas, the reproductive :apacity or annual incremental
growth of existing vegetation. The deficit between demand and annual
incremental growth Ls expected to reach 2.2 million m3 in 1995. The
situation iL most serious in the Central Plateau, where annual coneumpti.on
in 1984 was already 4.5 times greater than production, forcing people tc
burn crop residues inetead of reincorporating them into the soil to
maintain fertility. Only eight of the country's thirty provinces have a
positive fuelwood balance.



- 3-
D. Government Objectives and Strateav
1.8         The Government has four main objectives for the broad
environmental and agricultural sectoret
- to stop environmental degradation, improve management of the
natural resources, and ensure tht sustainability of the
production systems;
- to raise rural productivity, production and incomesa
- to improve food security and diversify the sources of food and
incomes;
- to make rural communities fully responsible for the management
of their own affaire and particularly for the management of the
rural environment.
1.9         The Burkinabè authoritiee, aware of the seriousness of the
problems they are facing, have already taken major step. to improve natural
renources management. The effect of demographic growth on resource
degradation and, in turn, on the countryls economic development, is being
openly addressed by the country's leaders, and Burkina Fano has been a
pioneer among the Sahelian countries, particularly since the early 1980s,
in looking for new practiccl approaches for dealing with the population/
agriculture/environment "nexusns
<a)   a Commission for Fighting Drought Effects was established in
December 1983 to monitor and control emergency plans set up to
help drought victime with food, water, health serrices and
equipment;
<b)   a law on Agrarian and Land Tenure Reorganization <"RAF") was
promulgated in 1984 aiming at a more rational and equitable use
of land and natural resources in order to stop their present
depletion trend;
(c)   a Popular Crash Program was initiated as a challenge to the
people to une their own resources to tackle resource
degradation.  Eight million trees were plantedS over two
thousand wells were dug and 10,000 ha were treated with anti-
erosion measures between October 1984 and December 1985;
(d,   a National Family Planning Program was launched in 1985,
followed by an ambitious Population Policy Statement approved
in April 1990;
(e)   a Three Point Program was launched in 1985 to combat
uncontrolled bush fires, overgrazing and indiscriminate wood-
cutting;
(f)   a National Forestry Fund was established to generate funda to
finance the management of existing foreste and of community
forestLry project s



- 4 -
(g)   a National Plan to Stop Dosertification was launched in 1986,
to protect and rehabilitate the environment, achieve food self-
sufficiency, and meet t,ie demand for wood for fuel and timber.
1.10        These various initiatives were well-intentioned, and achieved
some impressive physical results, but suffered from three drawbacks.
Pirst, despite the good intentions, the programs were implemented as top-
down exercises: if popular participation was often achieved, ownership was
seldom inculcated. Second, the programs aimed at multi.disciplinary
approaches to resource management but were implemented by centralized
sectoral departments2 multidisciplinary actions proved difficult to achieve
in practice. Third, ambiguities in land tenure and the righte of local
communities to govern accesa to common resources limited the willingneu of
the ostensible beneficiaries to invest in natural resources management.
1.11        In the light of these problems, Government ha. am.nded ltu
strategy for improving natural resources management. Firet, through new
pilot operations, a genuine attempt has been made to work with local
communities using trained multidisciplinary teams to help these communities
devise local land-use plans.  Second, an administrative reorganization was
carried out in 1988 to divide the country into 30 provinces (instead of 11)
and 300 districts, to give local government services more scope to devise
local solutione to local problems. Third, the limitations of the 1984 law
on Agrarian and Land Tenure Reorganization have been explicitly recognized.
The intent of this law was to improve incentives for sustainable natural
resources management; in practice, however, it has addee to the
uncertainties and ambigvities in land tenure by ostensibly replacing
traditional custodians of land rightK by Revolutionary Committees.
Starting in 1989, Government initiated wide public debate on the 1984 law
that has clearly demonstrated the need for amendments.
1.12        Govainment recognizes today the need to give local communities
responsibility for the land on which they live and produce, and to give
them contrc over common natural resources. This perception has resulted
in a new approach to natural resources management s local community land
management. nicely expressed in the Burkinabè term "l'Aproche Terroir".
The main feature of this approach is participation, whereby empowered local
communities are assisted to define and implement land management plans for
their land and natural resources or "terroir".
1.13        With the increasing number of environmental initiatives taken
by oeveral agencies in the country, the Government recognized the need for
concerted action. As a result, a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
i. being prepared with IDA and other donors' assistance. This plan,
presently at draft stage, calls for a series of interventions in several
sectors. The priority iltervention is natural resources management as
depmribed in the proposed project. There are however other important
ev-ironmental issues even in a country as quintessentially rural as Burkina
iaso: these are the worsening urban environment and the need to develop
improved environmental education and capacity-building delivery systems.
These other issues will therefore figure in the Environmental Action Plan
and will be presented to the donor community either in the context of a
donors' meeting on the NEAP or at subsequent sectoral donors' meetings.



E. IDA's Lendinc Strateav
1.14        IDA's primary long-terni goal is to help Grvernment achiove
sustainable economic growdth with equity. Since agriculture is the
predominant sector 'rn the ôurkinabb economy, Jit has received considerable
support. As of August 1990, 16 IDA credits have been approved for the
agricultural sector, and 13 have been completed. Projectu under execution
are the Fertilizer Project (Cr. 1550-BUR), under which the subsidy on
chemical fertilizers has been phased out as planned, and two nationwide
projecte, the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1896-BUR), and the
Agricultural Support Services Project (Cr. 1979-BUR). The latter project
was alo based on several years' pilot operations, in which one important
success was dissemination of bunding as a soil conservation and water
retention technique. Those pilot operations alo confirm.d a l'mitation on
the effectivenes. of extenaion: while extension can have a significant
effect on natural resources management ày disseminating techniques to be
tested and adopted at the enterprile level, mnany natural resources
management problems require concerted action among enterprises. Design and
dissemination of land-uce plans for communal assets management by community
members require a set of specialized skille; these have to be provided au a
complement to extension for improving the productivity of individuals'
assets. The proposed project complements the Agricultural Support Services
Project by focussing on improving communal asset management. This i a
more difficult challenge than improving the productivity of individual
asuets. Although much can'be done at the individual enterprise level to
improve natural resources management, the really hard issues - fuelwood,
pasturea, and sail fertility - require action at the level of the
community. The proposed project will also draw upon reaults generated by
the Agricultural Rnsearch Project.
P. Exîerience with Past Lendina
1.15        IDA'm past agricultural projectu in Burkina Faso have been
mainly area-development projects and have been relatively successful.
These projects concentrated on cotton and cereals production in the
Southwest. Four of the earlier projectu were featured in the 1988
Operations Evaluation Study, "Cotton Development Programu in Burkina Faso,
Côte d'Ivoire and Togo". More recently-completed similar projecto include
the Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development Projett (Cr. 1285, PCR No.
9055); the Boucle du Mouhoun Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1284,
draft PCR of December 6, 1990)> the Second Bougouriba Agricultural
Development Project (Cr.1097-BUR, PCR No. 9039). Theue three projects were
executed in a timely manner, wall within budget, and yielded completion
rates of return similar to appraisal forecasts of about 20%. Other
recently-comploted projects include the Koudougou Pilot Project (Cr. 1293-
BUR, PCR No. 9296), which concentrated on researching and testing
techniques for slowing soil degradation, and the Third Rural Development
Fund Project (Cr. 1218-BUR), which financed small rural investments.  s8me
of these kinds of investments - soil conservation works and umall dams -
will likely figure prominently in the terroir management plans to be
developed under the proposed project. More recent operations have shifted
toward support for agricultural production through nationwide research and
extension projectu, as the key public services deserving further
improvement.



-6-
G. Project Background
1.16        In October 1986, IDA approved a PPF of US$500,000 for a two-
year rreparatory phase, which was to undertake pilot operations in
community land management, and to determine best practices in such
operations and other similar operations funded by other donors and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). Support to local communitiea for design
and execution of land-use plans was to be provided through local government
services, but monitoring and evaluation was to be undertaken by a national
coordinating unit to be set up in the Ministry of Planning. In January
1987, an agreement was signed between the then Ministry of Development
Cooperation of Norway and IDA by which IDA would administer a Norwegian
grant of US$ 2.4 million in support of the pilot operations. The French
Governiment, through CCCE, made available US$ 1.7 million equivalent to
support the activities of the coordinating unit and the Federal Republic of
Germany provided US$ 2 million equivalent for training activities. In June
1988, IDA approved an SPPF of US$100,000 for the preparation of a regional
land-use plan for the Sahel region in support of the community land
management operations to be launched in that region.
1.17        Pilot operations <Annex 2) were initiated in 1987 but the
coordinating unit did not become operational until 1988. Eight pilot
projecta were identified in different parts of the country: five new
operations and three selected from on-going IDA projecta. In addition,
several other pilot operations were initiated by other donors and NGOs.
The innovative feature of these pilot operations was the testing of the
Terroir Approach to land management. The basic features of this approach
and the lessone learned from the pilot operations are described below.
The Terroir Approach to Land Management
1.18        The Terroir Approach is community-based, participatory and
holistic. The main instrument is the Terroir Management Plan, which a
community designe with the assistance of a multidisciplinary team of
technicians. ownership of the plan by the community is crucial since plan
implementation is the responsibility of the community.  The plan will
include land-use rules governing access to and exploitation of common
assets such as pasture, forests and water, and specific land improvement
works mainly on common lande but also on individual holdings.
1.19        In the Terroir Approach, the word "community" designates a
group of families sharing, on a commonly agreed basis, the same territory
on which they may live permanently or seasonally and carry out regularly
agricultural and/or liveetock production activities or any other activities
related to the utilization and exploitation of the natural renewable
resources available on the said territory. Such community can be a
village, a sector of a village ("quartier"), a group of villages, a
pastoral community, a fishing or hunting community or a combination of two
or more of the above groupe that are sharing the same territory or
"terroir".
1.2C        The Terroir Approach leads to the design and implementation of
a Terroir Management Plan through a multistep process described in detail
in Annex 1, and in working paper No. 1, and summarized belowt



-7-
(j> Awarenese and Trust Buildinc. Multidisciplinary teame (Terroir
Management Support Teamo) help communities become more aware of
the strong relationshipe existing between the different
componente of the local ecosystem and the causee of natural
resources depletion and land degradation. These teams are
provided by the local goverament services. Emphasis ie put on
the merits of bottom-up approaches whereby the communities
become the key decision center for all actions to be carried
out on their terroirs.
(li)  Diaanosis.  The Terroir Management Support Teams provide
support to the communitiee to help the latter define their
short, mnedium and long term objectives, and to assess their
natural and human resources potential, their actual production
systems and the prospects for sustainability of the systeme.
(iii) Communitv organization. The Terroir Management Support Teame
help the communities set up Terroir Management Committees
formally recognized by the community and the authorities and
mandated by the community for dealing with matters pertaining
to land, natural resources and other aspects of Terroir
Management and development. The Terroir Management Committees
are made of freely-selected representatives of the different
groups within the community.
(iv) Design of Terroir Management Plans. Communities undertake to
design - together with Terroir Management Support Teame -
management plans for these terroirs that would take into
consideration their immediate, medium and long term goals as
well as the potential and limits of their environment and their
own capabilities and constraints.
(v)   Communitv - Government Agreement.  Whenever they are in need of
technical and financial support to implement their Terroir
Management Plans, communities present the plans to the
Government for review and approval and seek an agreement or
contract whereby Government undertakes to provide auch support
and the latter agrees to respect the proposed management plan
conditions, particularly those regarding protection and
maintenance measures.
(vi) Implementation of Terroir Management Plans. Decentralized
Government and Non-Government services help communities
implement their management plans by providing technical and
financial assistance supported by training and information
programe. Communities will manage the land-use rules and
provide in-kind contributions to land improvement works in the
form of manpower.
(vii) Monitoring and Evaluation. This component is essential (a) to
reveal probleme and take remedial measures during the
implementation phase of the management plans, (b) to help
technicians3 iearn-by-doing so that they may more effectively
help design Terroir Management Plans elsewhere, and (c) to help



Government begin to ditill best practices for wide
dissemination to other areas.
Lessons Learned from Pilot O eration_
1.21        Although still preliminary, the experience gained from these
pilot operations points to the following conclusions:
(i)   Validity of the Apvroach.  Although the pilot operations have
not always been well implemented, they have confirmed that the
overall approach la welcomed by the communities; demande for
design of Terroir Management Plans greatly exceed the response
capacities of the technicians. Government services, NGOs and
donor agencies are now adopting the Terroir Approach in many
parts of the country.
(ii)  Communitv Orcanization.  Communities responded very well,
particularly whenever traditional land chiefs <chefs de terre)
were associated with the procees and became members of Terroir
Management Committees. These committees played an important
role in communities' involvement and commitment and in solving
iand related conflicts.
(iii) Multidisciplinarv Emphasie. Even where one activity dominates
the production system of a terroir, such as livestock in the
arid north, a multidisciplinary approach must prevail in order
to ensure that all land-use options are fully considered.
(iv)  Terroir Management Unit.  The definition of a management unit
muet take into consideration not only social units, such as
villages, pastoral or any other communities as described in
para. 1.19, but also natural resources unite, such as
watersheds, forests or pastoral zones, that need to be treated
as unite for management purposes. When a resource is to be
shared with other villages or social groupe, the management
unit needs to include all the users.
1.22        The pilot operations alo highlighted some difficulties and
constraints:
(i)   Terroir Management Concept.  Technicians and extension agents
still have difficulties in internalizing the concept and
approach or have different interpretations. Good training and
information sessions are essential for success.
(iLi) Land Securitv. The Agrarian and Land Tenure Reorganization Law
(RAF) neither guaranties the property nor the usufruct or the
permanent exploitation right that would encourage individuals
or communities to make long-term investmente on their land.
(iii) Institutional Constraints. The Terroir Management Approach
implies concerted and converging actions from several
government services at community level. Few of them are



decentralized to that level and they tend to work in isolation
making integration a major challenge.
1.23        Other lesuons learned are that a key to success in site-
specificity of the terroir management plans. Because community
participation is essential, the pace of definition and implementation of
land-use plans can go no faster than the local community's readiness. In
mome cases conflicting rights to land and other natural resources have to
be clearly identified and resolved. An important corollary is that,
because blueprints are not workable, the proceus of devising appropriate
Terroir Management Plans is very staff-intensive. Despite thie limitation,
there is now a broad consensus among Government and donor agencies that the
Terroir Approach is the approach with the best chance of success for
improving natural resources management. As a result, several on-going as
well as new projects have been re-oriented or re-designed to adopt this
approach. It is recognized, moreover, that although much learning-by-doing
still needs to be done, the launching of a larger national program is now
warranted. The proposed first-phase of this nationAl program in,
therefore, still somewhat experimental in character, in which careful
monitoring, distillation of best practices, and flexible implementation
approach will be critical.
Il. THE PROJECT
A.     Rationale and Obiectives
2.1         The special feature of the proposed project lies in the
application of the Terroir Management Approach described above. In this
approach, the local community is the key decision making unit for
developing and implementing Terroir Management Plans, which are the key
operational instruments for attaining the broad objective of the project.
The role of government and non government agencies would be of technical
assistance and support.
2.2         Rationale.  The agricultural sector, in addition to being
essential to Burkinals food security, is the mont important sector of the
country's economy and exporte. Its sustainability and growth are thus a
precondition of any meaningful national socio-economic development. The
present form of exploitation of the country's natural resources is
outrunning the pace of their replenishment; short-term production gains are
being obtained at the cost of resource degradation. Un'ess the process is
halted, as is sought under the proposed project, the country's economic
future will be jeopardized and its food security threatened.
2.3         Obiectives.  The broad objective of the project is to stop and
reverse the process of natural resources degradation in order to secure
sustainable agricultural growth, to restore biodiversity, and to manage
forests and wildlife sustainably. The specific objectives of the project
are (i) to implement the Terroir Approach on a wide scale, (ii) to monitor
natural resources management operations in order to distill best practices,
and (iii> to measure environmental change.



- 10 -
2.4         The project will constitute the firet five-year phase of a
long-term program expected to last 15 to 20 years and reach moet of the
rural communities of Burkina Faso.
B.    Summarv Description
2.5         The core of the project will concist of helping rural
communities design and implement sustainable management plans for their
lande and natural resources. The content of the projeat wlll therefore
depend to a large extent on the demande rural communities will themeelves
expresss a demand-driven project muet necessarily be flexible in ite
implementation. The project will enable the Government to provide
technical and financial support to community land management design and
implementation, and includes provisions to strengthen the legal and
institutional frameworks conducive to the succese of the operation. The
principal project componente ares
(a)   identification, design and implementation of Terroir Management
Plans in three provinces in different agro-ecological zones of
the country;
(b)   design and implementation of combined management plans for
protected forests and the surrounding community terroirs in two
provinces;
(c) technical support for existing natural resources management
operations in 18 provinces;
(d)   establishment of national environmental and project impact
monitoriiig systeme 
(e)   human resources development;
(f) management and studies.
2.6         About 1,170 communities distributed over 21 provinces will
receive support from the project.  About 120 communities will benefit from
component (a) above. A further 47 communities, located in areas adjacent
to gazetted forests in two provinces, will benefit from component (b)
above. The other 1,000 communities will be selected among ongoing
operations (in the 18 provinces referred to in component (c) above) and
will receive limited additional support to enable them fully to implement
the Terroir Approach.
2.7         A necessary condition for succeses of the above operations is
that the 1984 Agrarian and Land Tenure Reorganization law be amended to
remove ambiguities in tenure and usufruct rights, and thereby incraase the
incentives for undertaking land improvement works. Specific amendments
were proposed to Government during appraisal of the proposed project. A
national seminar to consider amendments to the 1984 law was held in
November 1990, and an interministerial working group was set up in January
1991 to draft the amendments. A condition for Board vresentation is that
Government had submitted to IDA the draft of the amendments to the land



- il -
tenure law. A condition of effectiveness is that a reviled law,
satisfactory to IDA, had been enacted.
C.    Detailed Features
1. Terroir Management Plans in Three Provinces.
2.8         In the provinces of Gnagna, Kouritenga and Kénédougou,
repre.enting different ecological conditions and different social and
ethnic groupe, the project will provide full support to about 120
communities and help them to design and implement Terroir Management Plans,
following the Terroir Approach to land management au deucribed in para.
1.18 to 1.20.
2.9         Initial baseline data surveyu at provincial level have already
been conducted in the three provinces by the Coordinating Unit set up
during the preparation phase, and yielded information in the following
seven areas:
-     geography, geo-morphology and climates
-     vegetation, sols and water resources;
-     population composition, growth and migrationt
-     rural organizations and political structures;
-     agriculture, livestock, forest, wildlife and f iherie.;
-     agricultural products marketing and handicraftsg and,
-     health and education.
This information will constitute the bauis for the pre-selection of the
Villages. All three surveyu will b. supplemented by information in the
following three areas before the utart of the project using the remaining
PPF fundes (<) population map (1/200,000) lndicating administrative
boundaries; (iI) provincial map (1/200,000) showing the communication
network and socio-economic infrastructures (factories, schoole, health
centers, markets, etc.); and (III) mapa of climate, moils, vogetation and
water resources.
2.10        The selection of communities will be part of the project
implementation proces. The selection criteria for communities during this
firet phase of the long-term program will bet (1) community concern over
land and environmental issues and desire to resolve them; (ii) existence of
present or foreseeabi2 land and environmental issues; (iii) replicability;
and (iv) availability of government and non-government support capability
in the area. If neighboring communities are sharing one or more common
natural resources or if they want to set up common facilities, their
terroirs may be dealt with as a unit for management purposes.
2.11        Since communities cannot be selected beforehand, it is
impossible to determine now what will be included in each Terroir
Management Plan in terms of type and size of investments at community
level. To be eligible for financing, any investment proposal submitted
shall meet the following conditions:



- 12 -
(j)   be included in the land management plan or in the combined land
and forest management plan to be executed by the relevant
village/community;
(ii) be susceptible of improving the use and management of community
land or forestry resources (e.g., erosion control works, water-
harvesting works, small dame or dikes, soil fertility
improvement, agroforestry operations, pasture improvement,
nursery establishment, trea planting, bush fire prevention,
wind breaks, etc...);
(iii) be justified in terms of community participation as to the
costs of the proposed investment in cash and/or in kind,
including appropriate arrangements to ensure future maintenance
and recurrent coats; and
(iv) investments of a purely social nature shall not be eligible
under the proposed project but may be funded out of ongoing IDA
or other donors' projects.
It is estimated that the average investment cost per community would
be of the order of $50,000 (Annex 3 provides illustrative terroir
management investments and unit coste).
2.12        Implementation of this component is expected to start slowly as
awareness campaigne will have a slow impact at the beginning given the time
needed to establish trust; however, as the preparation phase has shown,
there will likely be an emulation effect as people get to know more about
the benefits of land management planning including, notably, the
limitations of what can be done at the individual farm level and the
benefits to be reaped from communal action. In the project areas, the
territory coverage for the extension agents will be reduced from the
current average number of eight villages to four, in order to free up the
time to assist in the initiation, implementation and monitoring of the land
management plans over the five-year life of the project. This number may
be reviewed over the course of the project if it is found that more
villages can be handled by the same agent. Once the investment phase of
the Terroir Management Plan is completed, input from these agents will be
reduced.
2. Combined Forest and Terroir Management in two Provinces
2.13        This component will be located in the provinces of Houet and
Bougouriba, in the South-West region, which has been selected for the
following reasons: (i) there is a pressing challenge for managing natural
resources since they are under recent, severe pressure from maosive land
clearing by spontaneous settlers; (ii) the remaining forest and wildlife
are valuable assets of the nation's biological diversity but are now
seriously threatened; (iii) the growing fuelwood demand in Bobo Dioulasso -
the country's second city - is putting increasing pressure on the nearby
natural foreste; and (iv) terroir management activities that have been
initiated in a few pilot villages have given very promising resulte.



- 13 -
2.14        The project will adopt a management method consisting of (i)
Integrated Forest Management and Conservation Plans for the protected
forests and (ii) Terroir Management Plans for the adjacent community lande.
Each of the above forestu and the surrounding community lande will
constitute a Management Area. The communities will be the central point
while designing the management plan for the terroirs as well as for the
neighboring protected forest areas. Initial baseline surveys, similar to
those considered in the three earlier provinces (para. 2.9), will be
conducted in the provinces covered by this component.
2.15        In the Houet province, the component will be implemented in two
Management Areas: (i) the Maro gazetted forest and the 18 surrounding
villages; and (ii) the Hippo Pool gazetted forest and its 6 surrounding
villages. The Maro forest covers about 50,000 ha. It has been under
longstanding use and sometimes abuse to supply fuelwood to traditional
iron-makers and to the railway company. Wildlife is still important and
includes a herd of about 50 elephants. Pressure from agriculture, which
was minimal only a few years ago, has increased rapidly both from cropa and
livestock. The Hippo Pool forest covers about 19,000 ha and has had the
statue of a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve since 1987. Wildlife in rich and
diversified and includes about 60 hippos and more than 100 species of
birds. Farmers have not started encroaching on the forest as yet but it is
under increasing pressure from growing claims for land by migrants.
2.16        In the Bougouriba province, the component will be implemented
in one Management Area around two contiguous protected forestss (i) the
Nabéré gazetted forest (6,000 ha) and (ii) the Nabéré provisional wildlife
reserve, covering 37,000 ha. This area is under recent but potentially
explosive pressure by migrant encroachment resulting in the degradation of
pastoral resources and destruction of wildlife. It is also on the fringe
of the fuelwood exploitation zone that supplies the city of Bobo Dioulasso.
The above two forests are surrounded by 23 villages which will be part of
the Management Area.
2.17        Combined Forest and Terroir Management Plans will be more
difficult to design than the community terroir plans. The former will also
include new demarcation of foreste. It is likely that about 5,000 ha in
the Maro gazetted forest will be degazetted, but that 30,000 ha in the
Nabéré provisional wildlife reserve will be newly gazetted. Within the
gazetted areas, protection and production zones will be distinguished.
Within the protection zones, work will include: establishing and
maintaining water reservoirs for wildlife, restoration of the
archaeological site of Bekuy in the Maro forest, and establishment of
firebreaks and implementation of a selective early burning program as
protection against aggressive bush fires. The promising, though not yet
conclusive, results obtained by the Canadian sponsored Wildlife Management
Project in Nazinga forest and by the FAO-UNDP sponsored Community Forestry
Project in Nazinon forest will be closely monitored as lessons can be
learnt from these experiences. There will also be some resettlement of
people from the protection to the production zones but this will only be on
a voluntary basis.



- 14 -
3. Technical suDport in 18 Provinces
2.18        Additional technical support will be provided to ongoing
operations in 18 provinces that are supported by other donor agencies and
NGOs. These provinces are: Bam, Bougouriba, Ganzourgou, Houet, Kossi,
Oudalan, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentinga, Oubritenga, Pasuore, Sanmatenga,
Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa and Yatenga. These operations served as
pilot operations for the proposed project or are newly-started projects
adopting the Terroir Management Approach. They would benefit from
additional support in the form of training, surveys, studies, photomapping
servicea and environmental monitoring. In caues where the financial
resources of these ongoing operations are inadequate, the proposed project
would fund investmente, but on a limited scale. This dimension of the
proposed project i- important since it will h-lp build up a coherent
national program. This support to ongoing operations will be provided on
request and in agreement with the funding agencies and Government. The
criteria for community and inveutment selection will be similar to those
defined for the two other components of the project (para. 2.10 and 2.11).
Such support will be decided by the project'u Operational Management Unit
at the central level.
4. Environmental and Pro2ect Imvact Monitorinc
2.19        A national environmental monitoring system will be net up to
assesa the extent of remources degradation nationwide, and to understand
itu causes, dynamicu and trends. Project impact monitoring will be dons at
terroir level to gauge the local effects of the adoption of. the Terroir
Approach on natural resources and on crop yield.
2.20        National Environmental Monitoring.  A aystematic *tudy will be
carried out to analyze the changes in land use over the last 20 years,
notably the rate of expansion of cropped land and the consequent reduction
of silvopastoral areas.  Changes in quality within the same land une type
will be analyzed to determine the level of degradation. Satellite imagery
will be used fcor the years 1972-75, 1980 and 1991-92 on a scale of
s1500,000.  Aerial photographe available at the Burkinabê Geographic
Institute (IG8) will be used to refine the interpretation work,
particularly for the 1972-75 imagery.  The work will be contracted out.
For the 1980 imagery, a similar study i- being carried out by the Institute
for Rural Development and a land use map on a scale of lsl,000,000 will
soon be produced; therefore only complementary work, if required, will be
done for that year. The output of this study will be a set of maps
supplemented with tables and comments about ecological changes observed at
the level of each province and a set of geocoded numeric files to be
utilized in a Geographic Information System.  More details are available in
the working paper no. 3 on Environmental Monitoring.
2.21        In addition to satellite imagery interpretation, other data
will be collected to complete the picture on the state of the environment
and on its evolution. Demographic data are available at the National
Institute of Stati-tice.  Data on the water cycle (water course flow and
rainfall) will be obtained respectively from the Water Statue Project and
the Meteorological Department.  Agricultural and livestock production data
are produced by the Agriculture Statistical Services. Estimates on



- 15 _
fuelwood supply and demand, though not very reliable, will be gathered from
the Ministry of Environment. The above data will be incorporated in the
Geographic Information System. The main usera will be the project, the
Government and the donor agencies to understand better the extent of
environmental degradation and trends, select more appropriately the future
areas of intervention and set up adequate planning and coordination between
the different actors.
2.22        Proiect Impact Monitoring.  In addition to the above national
monitoring, the impact of the implementation of Management Plane in the
terroirs and foreste covered by the project will be monitored. Thie type
of monitoring will therefore deal with the terroirs and foreste mentioned
under components (a) and (b) located in the provinces of Gnagna,
Kénédougou, Kouritenga, Houet and Bougouriba.
2.23        Because of the large number of terroirs involved (167) and the
extent of the forest areas considered, a sampling method would be adopted.
For each of the provinces of Gnagna, Kouritenga and Kénédougou, a sample of
five pairs of terroirs (five terroirs under management and five controls)
will be selected. The method will compare the conditions of these terroirs
at different years over a long period of time. Aerial photographe at a
scale of ls50,000 for the years 1952-53, 1979-81, 1991 and 1996 will be
utilized, covering the total area of the three provinces. They will be
enlarged to the scale of 1:12,500. Limita of terroirs and of different
land use categories will be identified and reproduced on a map. The
comparative interpretations of photographe taken in different years will
highlight changes in land usn, vegetation cover, the extent of land
clearing, the duration of fallow, etc. This work will be supplemented by
the monitoring of bushfires twice a year using satellite imagery, and the
establishment of three ground control sites for each terroir of the sample:
on forest, grazing and fallow land. On these sites the task will consist
of monitoring grass biomass (every year) and tree biomass (every five
years). The reaulta will be amalgamated w.tth the detailed base line
surveys at the community level, obtained at the diagnosis stage (para. 1.20
(ii)>, and with production and productivity data to be regularly monitored
by the project.
2.24        For the Combined Forest and Terroir Management component in the
provinces of Houet and Bougouriba, monitoring of village landa in the
Management Areas will be similar to the above. In the protected forests,
three ground control sites would be established in each Management Area to
monitor the evolution of vegetation cover, and bushfire monitoring would be
undertaken in the total area of the protected forests.
2.25        Project impact monitoring in the 18 provinces where only
additional technical support to existing projecta is proposed, will remain
the responaibility of these projects. Training on such monitoring can,
however, be extended to enable these projects to carry out project impact
monitoring similar to that proposed above.
5. Human Resources Development
2.26        The Terroir Approach is an innovative approach requiring new
and apecialized skills that will be implemented with the help of existing



- 16 -
institutions and, with a few exceptions, by their existing staff. Quality
and attention given to staff training is therefore a crucial issue and one
of the most important conditions for project's success. Dissemination to
wider target groups of the gravity of the natural resources management
problem, and of the Terroir Approach as a promising solution is also
fundamental. These target groups include the rural communities in the
project area, but also public administration staff in the project area, and
local politicians.
2.27        Technical staff will be trained in the conceptual basis,
methodology and technical content of the Terroir Approach. Training
modules will include (i) group dynamics techniques and communications
skills in order to disseminate thess% ideas to wider target groups, (ii)
data collection methods, (iii) technological packages and (iv) planning,
monitoring and evaluation methods. Training will take place in three
complementary ways: (i) basic training at the time of staff recruitment,
(ii) field training on most advanced terroirs and (iii) continuous in-
service training based on annual evaluations and feed back. The staff to
be trained will consist of:
42 agriculture and community development extension agentsi
12 forestry extension agents;
9 agriculture and livestock zone chiefs3
10 forestry officers from the five provincial forestry
services ;
20 technical specialists from the five Provincial Terroir
Management Units;
3 technical specialists from the central Operational
Management Unit.
In addition, financial and technical support will be provided, on request,
to existing operations in the 18 provinces to help ongoing projects
strengthen their own training programs. Outlines of the training modules
and course programs are in working paper number 4. These modules and
programs are being further refined through continuing preparatory
activities undertaken with PPF and other donors' assistance.
2.28        Careful coordination with on-going training and extension
programs will be required to ensure consistency in the technical packages
proposed to rural community members. The Provincial Terroir Management
Units will establish mobile specialist teams, based at provinces
headquarters but residing for a protracted period of time in a rural
community to design Terroir Management Plans, together with community
members. Dissemination to public administration staff and politicians will
also be organized by province. The dissemination methods - workshops,
local field trips, wider study tours - will be determined by the Provincial
Terroir Management Units in the light of their perceptions of the obstacles
to be overcome. This work will be done based on Focus Group Interview
Techniques successfully utilized in population and nutrition projecta.



- 17 -
6.  Management and Studies
2.29        Proiect Management.  In each of the five provinces, the
existing technical etaff will be strengthened by the establishment of a
Provincial Terroir Management Unit (PTMU). Each PTMU will be staffed with
a land-use planner, a socio-economist, a sociologist, a forester, an
agronomist and a livestock/range managL4ment specialist. At the national
level, an Operational Management Unit (OMU) will be established in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. This unit will be staffed with a
senior program manager, two specialists (land-use planning and natural
resources management, and training and human development) and one
accountant. In most cases, these specialiste would be found through
internal reassignments; if not, recourse would be made to local recruitment
on a contractual basis. A condition of effectivenesF, would be that the OMU
had been established and staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2.30        Studies.  In addition to the nationwide environmental and
project impact monitoring, complementary studies will be commissioned, all
in PY3, on:
<a>   reasons for successes and failures in design and implementation
of Terroir Management Plans. This study will be undertaken by
a team of four specialists: a land-use planner, a rural
sociologist, a socio-economist and a lawyer. Total consultant
input would be 4 staff-months.
(b)   review.of the adequacy of land law to permit rural communities
to implement Terroir Management Plans, govern access and settle
disputes. This study will be undertaken by a team of two
specialists: a lawyer and a rural sociologist. Total
consultant input would be 2 staff-months.
<c)   review of the effectivenesas of staff training programe and
dissemination programs for the wider target groups. This study
would be undertaken by a team of three specialistss a trainer
of trainers, a rural sociologist and a political scientist.
Total consultant input would be 3 staff-months.
(d)   review of the effectiv'eness of the institutional arrangement
and management of the project. This study would be undertaken
by a team of three specialistes: an organization specialist, a
financial expert and a natural resources management specialint.
Total consultant input would be 3 staff-months.
2.31        Completion in PY3 of the four studies described in para. 2.30
will provide important inputs to the mid-term review to be conducted the
same year. This mid-term review will be conducted by Government and all
project financiers, with consultant support of up to four staff-months. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the mid-term review would be
undertaken not later than June 30, 1994 and that the operational
conclusions accepted by Government and IDA would be promptly implemented.



- 18 -
2.32         In addition, a multidisciplinary consultant team will be
recruited to provide, over the life of the Project and on a periodic basiea,
assistance and advice to Project staff. Such assistance i8 likely t3 be
required for references to best practices elsewhere for dealing with
similar natural resource management probleme, specific operational advice
for dealing with probleme or conflictu, and for asseesment of the enabling
environment, in the legislative and institutional dimensions among othere,
for promotion of sound natural resource management. This consultant
assistance ie expected to total 24 staff-months for the total duration of
the project.
D. Proiect Costs
2.33         Total project costs are estimated at US$25.2 million on the
basis of July 1990 prices with a foreign exchange component of US$9 million
or 36 percent. These coste are net of taxes and import duties and include
physical contingencies equal to 10% of base investment coste, to reflect
uncertainties regarding detailed quantities and possible design change
during implementation. Price escalation factors follow forecaste of
international inflation for foreign goode and services (3.6%) and estimated
annual inflation in Burkina Faso for local coste (4%). Total ccntingencies
amount to 16% of base comte and 14% of total project conte. The breakdown
of coste by component je eummarized below. Further summary coet tables, by
component ar.i type of 'Apenditure, are shown in Annex 4.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local    For.lgn   Total    Local  forelgn  Total X For. X Total
Compononts       ------- CFAF million ------    ---- US8 million ----- Exch. Baou Coat
A. Terroir Ugt
(8 Provinces) 1,488.1    648.9  2,127.0    6.9    2.6    8.4   80.8    88.9
B. Forest/Torr.
(2 Provinces) 1,247.1    889.7   1,686.8   4.9     1.t    6.4   28.8    29.6
C. Tech. Support
(18 Provlnces)  210.0    90.0    800.0     0.8    0.4      1.2    80      6.
D. Environmental
Monltoring    16.2    880.1    646.8      0.7    1.h      2.2   69.7   10.2
E. Humen Resources
Development   .266.1    88.5    288.6       1.0    0.1     1.1   11.6    6.1
F. Mgmt/Studles and
Reviown        142.4    486.7    679.1     0.6    1.7    2.8   75.4    10.0
Total Base Conte  8,602.9  1,974.0   5,476.9    18.9    7.7    21.6    86    100
Physical
Contingenclea    247.5    167.1    414.6    1.0    0.7    1.6   40.1       7.6
Price Contingencles 841.1    145.0    48C.0   1.8    0.6    1.9   29.8    8.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST 4.091.S  2.288.1   6.877.6  16.2    9.0    26.2   85.8   116.4
E. Financina Plan
2.34            Co-financing of about US$6.9 million was identified during
negotiatione and will be finalized with the Governmente of France, Germany
and Norway. The Burkinabè Government contribution would be US$1.8 million
equivalent. Therefore, the financing plan stands as followes



_ 19 -
FINANCING PLAN
CFAF Billion          USS million           Ai
Government                 0.46                  1.8                7
IDA                        4.15                 16.5               65
France (CCCE)              0.38                  1.5                6
Germany (GTZ)              0.51                  2.0                8
Norway                     0.87                  3.4               14
Total                      6.37                 25.2              100
The IDA credit would represent 65% of total project comts and would be on
etandard IDA terms, with 40 years maturlty.   Excluding costs financed by
other co-financiers, the Goveenment'l contribution represents 10% of total
project coste and would be used to meet 40% of the incremental operational
coste (para. 2.39).   Neither the financing plan, nor tho project comts
includes valuation of the in-kind labor to be provided by the rural
communities  for  execution  of  land  improvement  works.    The  "equity"
contributions by communities to the project could be substantials with 90
days input per family over a period of five years, 167 communities or about
16,700 families, and a dry-season opportunity cost of $2/day/family, this in-
kind contribution could exceed $3 million.
F. Procurement
2.35           All goode and services financez' Ànder the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement would be handled by
the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock that was set up in 1989 under the Agricultural Support Services
project  (Cr.  1979-BUR).    This Unit will be strengthened to face the
addition.2. load expected.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Procurement Method
Total
Project Elements                        ICB  LCB      Other    N.A.    Cost
S--us million-----------
Civil Works
Buildings                          --    0.7      --        --    0.7
(0.7)                    (0.7)
Land Improvements                  --    2.0      7.1       --    9.1
(1.8)   (4.3)            (6.1)
Vehicles and Equipment                  4.7   0.3      0.2       --    5.2
(3.8) (0.2)   (0.2)            (4.2)
Consultants and Studies                 --      --     2.7       --    2.7
(2.3)           (2.3)
Training                                --    --       1.3       --    1.3
(0.1)           (0.1)
Incremental Operating Costa             --    --       --        5.6   5.6
(2.5) (2.5)
Refunding of PPF                        --    --       --        0.6   0.6
(0.6) (0.6)
====5 ====   U===        ====  ====
TOTAL                                4.7   3.0    11.3        6.2   25.2
of which (IDA)                        (3.8) (2.7)   (6.9)      (3.0) (16.5)
====  ===   ====         ====  ===m
a/ Figures in parentheses show respective amounts financed by IDA.
2.36           Civil works will be of two qui-te different kinds.   First,
simple buildings would all be procured under LCU1 procedures which have been
reviewed and found satisfactory to IDA, providees that: (i) invitations to bid
are advertised locally, (ii) criteria for evalgation are clearly defined and
communicated to all prospective bidders, (iii) foreign bidders are not
excluded from participation, and (iv) all bide are opened in public with the
attendance of bidders' representatives permitted., Subject to these provisos,
on which an assurance was obtained at negotiacione, LCB for buildings is
warranted because of the dispersed nature of %he works; no contract is
expected to be over US$100,000 equivalent, anei the total financing is
estimated at US$0.7 million equivalent. The secc. d kind of civil works is
land improvement works, which cover a wide variet; rf works depending on the
content of the terroir management plans.  No conti>c-e is expected to be over
US$100,000 equivalent; indeed, very few contracta will exceed US$50,000
equivalent. Contracts for land improvement works estimated to cost more than
US$20,000 equivalent will be procured under LCB procedures (subject to the
above provisos). The total value of such contractv la estimated at US$1.8
million equivalent.   Works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent
may be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three
suppliers whenever practicable. The total value of such works iz estimated
at US$4.3 million equivalent.
2.37           Goods estimated to co&t over US$100,000 equivalent would be
procured under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.   Local



- 21 -
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or the applicable
customs  duty,  whichever  is lower.   Packages of between US$50,000 and
US$100,000 equivalent would be procured through LCB (subject to the above
provisos), up to a total limit of US$300,000.  Equipment which cannot be
suitably bulked and other small items such as materiale and supplies costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent each, up to a total limit of USS200,000, would
be procured through competitive quotations from at least three domestic
suppliers whenever practicable.
2.38           Consultants for studies and training, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, would be recruited in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
2.39           Incremental Operatine costs  consist of incremental salaries,
staff travel allowances, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, and
office operating costs.   Such minor individual expenditures do not lend
themselves to competitive bidding or shopping.
2.40           Contract Review. Bidding documents for contracte estimated to
cost over US$100,000 equivalent would be cleared with IDA before tendering,
and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to IDA for
comments prior to award. Thia would cover about 35% of the total estimated
value of civil works and goods contracte to be awarded for funding by IDA.
G. Disbursement
2.41           To facilitate project implementation, there will be a Special
Account with an initial deposit of US$700,000 operated by CAPU. In addition,
each of the seven provincial implementation units will operate sub-accounts
with initial deposits of US$50,000, paid from the Special Accounts.
2.42           Disbursements against incremental operating coste and purchase
orders, contracte and training programs of less than US$20,000 equivalent
would be submitted against statements of expenditures and certified by the
Operational Management Unit manager (ONU) and the chief accountant of the
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU). Pull documentation would be
retained for inspection in the course of normal project supervision and by
independent auditors. The CAPU would be responsible for the preparation and
presentation to IDA of withdrawal applications for all categories of
expenditures incurred under the project. The withdrawal applications would
be signed jointly by the ONU manager and the CAPU chief accountant. The
current disbursement profile for agricultural projecte in Burkina Faso is
7 1/2 year, however, the present project will dimburse moae rapidly because
(i) most investment operations are small and decidcr. locally at a
decentralized level; (ii) procurement under ICB is limited à US$ 4.7 million
and is for the purchase of standard vehicles and equipment; iiii) civil works
will be procured locally and are of simple nature; and (iv) the project will
benefit from the on-going and five-year-long preparatory phase, which will
constitute a guaranty for a good start. It is therefore estimated that a 6-
year disbursement profile will be more appropriate and a schedule of
disbursement is given in Annex 5. The project closing date will therefore be
December 31, 1998 and the IDA credit will be disburted as follows:



- 22 -
ALLOCATIONS AND DISBURSEMENeL OF THE IDA CREDIT
% of Expenditure
IDA Allocation        to be Financed
Cateaory of Exienditure               (US$ million)             bv IDA
1. Civil Works                            6.0                    100
2. Vehicles                               3.6                    100
3. Training                               0.1                    100
4. Consultants and Studies                1.7                    100
5. Incremental Operating Costs            2.5                     60
6. Refunding of PPP                       0.6                    100
7. Unallocated                            2.0                    100
TOTAL                                 16.5
2.43           The percentage of incremental operating costs to be financed
by IDA - 60% over the project duration - is equivalent to disbursement on a
declining basis from 100% for the first year, reduced by 25% for each
subsequent year, up to a disbursement limit of US$2.5 million. Most of the
incremental operating coste will decline very significantly once the
communities have been organized, adequately represented and trained, and the
Terroir Management Plans have been deeigned, approved and executed.
Communities will care for the maintenance of the investmente and only limited
technical and extension support will be required, for an estimated amount of
US$300,000 per year which will be well below Gcvernment annual contribution
in year-4 or year-5.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Deeian PrinciDles
3.1            Existing operations  in natural  resources  management  are
organized in different wayss autonomous projecte, special units within
government departments, government line agencies, and non-governmental
organizations. Instances of succeseful operations can be found in each type
of organization; indeed, no clear pattern can be found linking succese with
type of organization.   This diversity of institutional approaches does,
however, have important drawbackss there is little institutional memory on
reasons for success or failure, and there ie little comparative data on
outputs and, even,  inputs.   In order to overcome these drawbacks and,
ultimately, to achieve significant improvement in natural resources
management on a large scale, the proposed project will be implemented by
government line agencies with, of course, full participation of the
communities and, whenever workable, in collaboration with NGOs.
3.2            Three  line  agencies  have  decentralized  structures  with
professional staff located in the field dealing directly with rural
communities and natural reeources management.   These are the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAE), the Ministry of Community Development
(MACP>, and the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET). The MAE ha. a
network of technicians based at regional, provincial and zone levels and
extension agents for every eight to ten villages. The MACP also has staff at



- 23 -
all similar levels but a lesser number of extension agente at village level
and the MET ie in procese of establishing strong regional offices, elimming
down provincial offices and increasing the number of forestry extension
agents at village level. For the time being, MAE has the best experience in
implementing natural resources management projecte and has the largest number
of field staff at all levels.  MAE will therefore be the lead implementing
agency.
B. Proiect Manacement
3.3            At national level.  Overall project management will be the
responsibility of the Minietry of Agriculture and Liventock. To this end, an
Operational Management Unit (OMU) will be eutablished in the office of the
Secretary General of the Ministry. The OMU will be responsible for overall
programming, planning and budgeting, project monitoring and evaluation. It
will supervise the work carried out by the MAE field staff, make cooperation
agreements with other entitios and supervise their performance, and
coordinate action between the institutions involved.
3.4            MAE will be directly responsible for the implementation of the
project components (a), (c), (<) and (f), namely the terroir management
program in 3 provinces, the support to existing natural remources management
operations activities in 18 provinces, the human resources development
program, and management and studies (para. 2.5). In addition, MAZ will als
be directly responsible for the implementation of that part of component (b)
dealing with community terroir management, while the forestry management part
of this component will be under the responsibility of the MET through an
agreement to be made between the two ministries.
3.5            For the implementation of the component (d) of the project,
<i) the national environmental monitoring task would be given to IGB with the
formal cooperation of INERA, IRBET and other institutions, and (ii) the
project impact monitoring task would be given to INERA and IRBET jointly. A
condition of effectivenese would be that contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, will be concluded <i) between the Government and IB to
carry out the national environmental monitoring task and (ii) between the
Government and INERA and IR8ET to carry out the project impact monitoring
task.
3.6            At provincial level.  In the provinces of Bougouriba, Houet,
Gnagna, Kénédougou and Kouritenga, a Provincial Terroir Management Unit
(PTMU) will be established as part of the provincial offices of the MAE. The
composition of the PTMU is described in para. 2.29.   A condition of
effectiveness would be that PTMUs had been established and staffed in a
manner satisfactory to IDA.
3.7            In the provinces of Houet and Bougouriba, where combined
forest and terroir managements are planned, Foreet Management Units (FMUs)
will be established as part of the provincial offices of the MET. The two
FMUs will each consist of a strong field forestry team to deal with the
protected forests and would work in very close collaboration with the
corresponding PTMUs. In addition, forestry technical assistance will be
provided to the two FMUS by a forestry support unit based in Bobo Dioulasso.



- 24 -
A condition of effectivenese would be that the FMUB had been establiehed and
staffed in a manner satiefactory to IDA.
3.8            The role of the PTMU in to provide technical support to field
staff in providing assistance to the communities for the preparation of
Terroir Management Plans, drawing up agreements between the community and the
governrment, and the implementation of plans. The activities of the PTMU and
the FMU in the five selected provinces will be monitored by a Provincial
Terroir Committee (PTC) chaired by the High Commissioner of the province.
The PTCs' principal tasks are to oversee the activities of the project in the
province and give the final approval (i) for the Terroir Management Plans
submitted by the communities, (ii) for the agreements to be passed between
the communities and the Project and <iii) for the Forest Management Plans
proposed by the FMUs after they have been reviewed at the central level (see
para. 3.12). The PTCs will also ensure that cooperation takes place between
the different government services during the preparation and implementation
of these plans and that there is coherence and coordination between the
dif ferent development programs in the same area. The secretariat for the PTCs
will be provided by the provincial representative of the MPC. A condition of
effectivenese would be that PTCs had been established and mandated in a
manner satisfactory to IDA.
3.9            In the other 18 provinces where technical back-up will be
provided to existing projecte, PTMUs and PTCs do not exist and the
institutional arrangements already in place will remain unchanged unless
decided otherwise by the existing structures. The ONU will deal directly
with the existing structures to establish the terms and conditions for
support.
3.10           At the zone level.  Within the five selected provinces and in
the zones retained by the project, the heads of the agriculture or the
livestock services will be responsible, with their extension agents in the
field,  or initiating the dialogue with the ?erroir Management Committees
<para 3.11>, for preparing with them, and with the help of the PTMU team,
the Terroir Management Plans and for monitoring their implementation. Each
extension agent will be in charge of 4 communities. The team will report to
the PTMU. In addition, in the Houet and Bougouriba provinces, there will be
for each  forest,  a forest management team, working closely with the
corresponding head of the agriculture or livestock services in the same
Management Area (see para. 2.14) mentioned above. The forest management team
will report to the FMU.
3.11           At the communitv level. Terroir Management Committees will be
formed by each rural community interested in terroir planning. They will be
formally recognized by the authorities as the representatives of the
community and be fully responsible for the management of their terroir. The
respective PTMU will provide the specialized, multidisciplinary expertise to
the Terroir Management Committee for the diagnosis of the terroir and the
design of the management plan. The Provincial Terroir Committee will review
the plan prepared by the Provincial Terroir Management Unit and the Terroir
Management Committee and approves it (see para. 3.8).  The PTMU helps the
Terroir Management Committee prepare an agreement with the government to be
approved by the Provincial Terroir Committee. Funds for the implementation



- 25 -
of the Terroir Managen,ent Plan will be made available, as prescribed in the
agreement, by the PTMU from a project sub-account opened in a local bank (see
para. 3.19). Physical works to be carried out at terroir level will often be
manageable by the communities themeelves, but heavy or specialized worke will
have to be contracted out. Funds for such contracte will be adminietered by
the PTMU. It is to be expected that mome communities may set up cooperatives
to execute contracte,  and that some NGOs may be interested in Eigning
contracte to execute part or all of the works prescribed in a Terroir
Management Plan.
3.12           Management of the Drotected foreste.   The  field forest
management team in charge of each forest will prepare the forest management
plan, with the participation of the communities and with the help of the FMUs
and the forestry support unit based in Bobo Dioulasso. This plan will then
be presented for approval to the Provincial Terroir Committee after review by
the MET, the OMU and the Interministerial Steering Committee.
C. Coordination
3.13           The need for coordination among the several line agencies is
vital for the succeses of this project. Design and implementation of Terroir
Management Plans muet be multi-disciplinary.   This coordination can be
readily achieved at the provincial level, via the Provincial Terroir
Committees (see para. 3.8). Chaired by the High Commissioner and consisting
of provincial members of government and non government agencies, these
committees are expected to carry sufficient authority without creating
another level of hierarchy, a new structure or a completely autonomous
project entity which, in past projecte, has often proven to be
counterproductive.
3.14           At the national  level,  the ONU will be responsible for
coordination (i) between the different agencies participating in the proposed
project, (ii) between this project and other related operations in the
country, and (iii) with NGOs and donors (para. 3.3). To this end, OMU will
convene an annual round table - by April 30 of each year - on natural
resources. management operations in order to exchange experience and distill
beet practices. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
Participants would include the project's participating agencies, other
projecte' staffs, NGOs and donors. An assurance was aleo obtained that joint
IDA-donors-Government reviews of project implementation would be carried out
on an annual basis and that such reviews will examine the progrese of
implementation to-date, discues the results of the previous yearle work
program and agree on the following yearle program and budget. While this
mechanism would help solve some of the coordination probleme, there may well
be other problems of an administrative nature that go beyond the capacity of
the OMU.  For these purposes, a special Interministerial Project Steering
Committee to be chaired by the MPC will be set up. Recent experience with
such committees in Burkina Faso indicate that they are very effective if
their mandate is clearly defined. A condition of effectiveness would be that
the Interministerial Project Steering Committee had been established and
mandated in a manner satisfactory to IDA.



_ 26 -
D. Prolect Monitorina
3.15           Careful monitoring of thie project lu needed to help deciieon-
makers obtain quick and reg'lar feedback on how the project is progressing,
and rapidly to make adjuetmenus w;:enever required. Because of the grase-root
nature of the proposed project and ite bottom-up approach, detaile on
location, type and number of investmente at field level cannot be known
beforehand.  The project lu inherently flexible, which makes the role of
monitoring far more important, and aleo more difficult, than just meaeuring
implementation of prescrlbed plan.; in this case, monitoring muet be dynamio
and iterative.. The mid-term review described in para. 2.31 would draw on the
resulte of project monitoring as well as the specially-commissioned studies
indicated at para. 2.30.
3.16           In addition to routine monitoring of project inputs, the ONU
will aleo have to monitor progr-es in (i) the design of terroir and forest
management plans, (<I) the negotiation of *uch plans betw en Terroir
Management Committees and local and provincial staff, (iii) the physical
execution of the worke propoesed in such plans, and (iv) the degr-e of respect
for land-use rules prescribed in the plans. The PTMUs will make bi-annual
reporte on all of the above to OMU.   In order to exorcise fully ite
monitoring function, OMU staff will aleo have to visit a *ample of the
Terroir Management Committees to obtain their own assessment of project
progrees.   The related but broader tanks of national environmental and
project Impact monitoring would be contracted out to I08, INERA and IRBET
<paras. 2.19-2.25).
E. Financial Manacement, Accountino and Audits
3.17           A computerized central management and accounting system ha.
been installed in the MAE under the-IDA-funded Fertllier Project (Cr. 1550),
which also funded the complementary staff training on accounting and
management both at Headquarters and in the provinces.  The Agricultural
Support Services Project (Cr. 1979-BUR) financed additional personnel for the
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU) within the MAE's Finance and
Administration Department.    This Unit  li  operational  and,  with  some
additional etaffing, will be able to handle the accounting and financial
management for the proposed project.
3.18           Immediately after credit effectiveness,  IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$0.7 million into the Special Account, representing
about four montheu expenditures. The account would be used to finance the
local and foreign coste of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. IDA would
replenish the account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred
expenditure and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for financing.
Monthly bank statements of the special account would accompany replenishment
requests.   No replenishment under the equivalent of US$20,000 would be
accepted by IDA.
3.19           Sub-accounts would be opened for each of the five PTMUe and
the two FMUs concerned by project componente (a) and (b).  The initial
deposit would be of US$50,000 drawn from the Special Account. This amount
may be adjusted later to represent about three months of eligible



-27-
expenditures.   Repleniuhment of the sub-accountu from the Special Account
would only be made by CAPU upon receipt of all documented expenses au
approved by the respective PTMU or PMU coordinator, the provincial accountant
of MAE or MET, and by the OMU manager. The Head of CAPU may seek further
explanations or cal]l for an audit if deemed necessary before replenishing the
sub-account. Internal auditors of CAPU would carry out periodic checks to
ensure that the sub-accounts are being properly managed. Theue procedures
are working well for the Agricultural Support Services Project.
3.20           CAPU would  consolidate  and maintain  all  project-related
records and accounts, including the epecial account and statements of
expenditures, and would have these audited annually by independent external
auditors acceptable to IDA. All disbursementu under SOEs would be audited
separately.   These audited accounts and the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the cloue of the financial
year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
P. Implementation and Supervision
3.21           An implementation schedule in attached at Annex 6. Actions to
be taken in PY1 and PY2 are relatively clear, but actions to be taken in the
outer years are more indicative than prescriptives the bottom-up nature of
the project requires that flexibility be a keynote from the *tart.  It is to
be expected that demand from rural communitile for Terroir Management Plans,
and technical staff a capacitie. to respond, will differ f rom province to
province and perhape even within provinces. The implementation schedule will
therefore have to be adjusted annually in the light of communities' demands
at the time of the annual review meetings (para. 3.14).
3.22           Supervision will have to be approached in a similarly flexible
manner  as  implementation.    There  is  also  a  strong  need  for  close
collaboration with other donor agencies to ensure consistency among the
different projects being simultaneously implemented in the country.   One
joint donor supervision will therefore be scheduled each year at the time of
the annual review meeting and annual roundtable (para. 3.14).  In addition,
ail other supervision missions will be carried out jointly or in a concerted
manner. A supervision schedule is attached at Annex 7. Supervision of the
project's financial management, accounting and auditing follow-up will be
undertaken as a separate exercise, as part of thematic financial supervision
of the ongoing national projects in research and support services.
G. Environmental Impact
3.23           The broad objective of the project is to stop and reverse the
process of natural resources degradation in order to secure sustainable
agricultural growth, to restore biodiversity, and to manage foreste and
wildlife sustainably. The project will clearly have a positive impact on the
environment.   If succesuful, it will improve soil, water and vegetation
conditions as well as promote biodiversity and wildlife protection.



- 28 _
IV. BaNDuiTS AMD R!SKS
A. Beneflte
4 .            A recent study on "Economic Issue  iLn Renewable Natural
Resource Management" carried out by the World Bank in 199Ci examined the
empirical  evidence  on  profitability  of  natural  resources  management
improvement techniques.  The *tudy concluded that (J) many techniques are
economically viable, although their financial profitability ls los. obvious,
(ji) there are sufficient economically viable techniques that a menu of
options can be preoented to cliente in mach agro-ecological zone, but (iLU)
further adaptive research in required to refine the techniques and tailor
them more closely to particular local circumstances. The difference between
economic viability and financial profitability arises from the valuation of
times the higher the discount rate, the lower the net present benefit.
Moreover, the empirical work from which the above conclusions were drawn was
almost invariably based on a before/after analysis, by comparing the costa
and benefits of the resource management improvement techniques with the
initial situation. But the initial situation is not statici a with/without
analysis to determine the incremental net benefits would have to take account
of resource degradation and declining land productivity in the "without"
case. The measurement probleme are so difficult that the true with/without
analysis has  seldom been attempted.   The above conclusions ther-fore
understate the net benefits to resources management improvement techniques.
4>2            Almost all of the available empirical evidence pertains to
resources management improvement techniques at the enterprise level. The
proposed project deals with such techniques at the community level   Thie
entails additional couts, mince community organization in time-consuming and
therefore costly.  But it also entails additional benefits of two kinds.
Pirst, there is the obvious case of improvements undertaken on common land,
which would simply not be undertaken in the abeence of community
organization. Second, there in the les. obvious case where, in the absence
of community organization, mome privately profitable techniques at the
enterprise level may not be adopted. A good example is rock bunding for soil
conservation and water conservation, which is privately profitable within
certain gradients of slope and depending on the distance to rocks. In many
parts of Burkina, however, land-holdings are divided into discrete plots
along the elope.   In these circumetances, bunding, i.e., on the contour
across the slope,  will not be adopted without some form of community
organization  that  can  galvanize  adjacent  land-holders  into  joint
implementation of a bunding program.
4.3            Since measurement of benefits to natural resources management
is difficult at the farm level, but even more difficult at the community
level, any attempt to estimate an economic rate of return to the proposed
project would be spurious. What may be stated with confidence in that, since
the project focusses on sustainable managejment of local community assets, it
can be expected to have a highly positive environmental  impact.   The
potential environmental benefits are big because many natural resource
management probleme can only be tackled by soma form of communal endeavor.
Resolution of these problems will contribute significantly to securing
sustainable agrieultural growth.  Specific environmental benefits will be



- 29 -
restoration of biodiveraity and sustained management of forestu and wildlife.
Another important benefit will be the learning-by-doing experienced by
community members and technical staff, and the distillation of beot practices
- without resorting to blueprintu - that will provide guidance to others
engaged in natural resources management operations.
B. Risks
4.4            The project,hau been designed and apprailed on the bamis of
about 20 pilot operations in natural resources management that were lnitiated
in the last five years.  It cannot yet be claimed, however, that all the
ingredients for aucceas have been clearly determined.  Indeed, one of the
conditions of succeos in the pilot projects was site-upecificity of the land-
use plans; blueprints  are not workable,  and the proce  of devising
appropriate land-use plans requires skilled and sensitive technical
expertise.   Moreover, Burkina han enjoyed good rainfall mince the 1984
drought, no that the land-use plans deosigned under'the pilot operations have
not yet been put to the test of their capacity to contend with bad years.
The main rieku are, therefores (i) cllmatic variability which, in acutely dry
yeare, could upset the beut-laid community land management plans and pousibly
destroy their credibilityl, and (il) the ability of Government services to
provide site-specific counsels to rural communities and to inculcate a oense
of ownership of land management plans by rural communities. The project in
therefore modest in geographic coverage in this firet phase, and has a strong
built-in monitoring system to enable early detection of problems no that
remedial action can be taken promptly.
V.     AGREEMENTS RZACHED AmD REcOOmeNDATIONS
5.1            Assurance. were obtained during negotiations thats
(a)   a mid-term review will be undertaken by Government and all project
financiers not later than June 30, 1994 and the operational
conclusions  accepted by Government  and  IDA will  be promptly
implemented (para. 2.31)>
(b)   procurement  under  local  competitive  bidding will  be made  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.36);
<c)   by April 30 of each year, OMU would convene (i) a round table on
natural resources management operations and (ii) a project
implementation review meeting with IDA and other donors to review
the previous year's program of work and agree on the following
yearls program of work and budget prepared by the ONU (para. 3.14);
(d)   project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOEs would be audited
separately, and these audited accounts and the auditor's report
would be submitted to IDA no later than six montha after the close
of the financial year (para. 3.20).



- 30 -
5.2            A cor.dition of Board presentation would be that Government had
submitted to IDA the draft of the amendments to the land tenure law (para.
2.7).
5.3            Conditions of effectivenees would be thats
(a)   a revised land tenure law satisfactory to IDA had been enacted
(para. 2.7);
(b)   the Operational Management Unit, the Provincial Terroir Management
Units and the Forest Management Units had been established and
staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.29, 3.6 and 3.7);
(c)   the Provincial Terroir Committees and the Interministerial Project
Steering Committee would have been established, and mandated in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.8 and 3.14);
(d)   contractual arrangements,  satisfactory to IDA, would have been
concluded between the Government and IGB to carry out the national
environmental monitoring tauk and between the Government and INERA
and IRBET to carry out the project impact monitoring tauk (para.
3.5).
5.4            Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a credit of SDR11.5 million (US$16.5 million equivalent) to the
Government of Burkina Faso on standard terme, with 40 years maturity.



- 31 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local Management of Communit, Land Or
"L'Approche Terroir"
A.    The Conceptual Framework
1.          L'Approche  Terroir  is  innovatives  it  is  a  holistic  and
decentralized approach introducing the concept of community lande
("terroir"), managed by a responsible group whose objective is a more
rational  utilization  of  the  natural  resources  in  view  of  achieving
sustainability and promoting the overall development of the group under land
security conditions.
-     RSolistic  Aoroach  implies  the  integration  of  all  agricultural,
livestock,  forestry,  fishery  and  other  natural  resource-based
activities into a single system.
Resuonsibilit, of the community is essential as the community is best
able to define its own needs and resources and identify its own
capabilities and limite.  Since the community must be the center of
decision-making, adequate delegation of authority to the communities
and the improvement of existing land tenure systems are required.
Delegation of part of the authority to communities must be accompanied
by the Decentralization of goverrment services at a level they can deal
with directly, and on a partrÂership basis vith those communities.
These decentralized services must also collaborate closely with each
other in order to facilitate intersectoral integration, essential to
the success of the process.
Sustainabilitv implies securing agricultural production for today
without  jeopardizing  tomorrow's.    For  that  purpose,  the  scarce
renewable natural resources available needed for direct consumption or
for agricultural production must be utilized in a non-wasteful way and
in order to ensure their timely replenishment. A better understanding
of  the    dynamice  of  the  overall  environmental  system  by  the
communities, the government and the non-government services is
necessary to ensure their full commitment to taking the corrective
measures required.   Appropriate resource-saving techniques must be
selected and disseminated as part of the "terroir approach" package.
LanMd Security is accepting to invest for the future and thereby
sacrificing part of the present. This implies a guarantee for those who
invest/sacrifice today, that they will get tomorrov the benefits of
that investment. Communities will take the responsibility and the risk
for long-term investments, at the cost of immediate sacrifices, only if
they have a guarantee that the land and resources they have invested la
will not be taken away. This implies also a good understanding of the



- 32 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
communities' social structures and various forms of authority and power
to ensure that all interests are taken into consideration and that
those who make commitments or speak on behalf of the community are its
legitimate representatives.
B.    The Methodoloay
2.          Seven major steps have been identified in the development of a
Terroir  Management  Plans  (i)  awareness,  (il)  diagnosis,  (iii)  social
organization of the community, (iv) design of the management plan, (v)
community-government agreement, (vi) implementation, and (vii) monitoring and
evaluation.
3.          Awareness.  In this first step, the project team reinforces the
community's awareness about the general process of natural resource
depletion, land degradat'on and productivity declines, and identifies with
the community the main causes of these problems and the main constraints,
i.e. population pressure, production increases (crops and livestock),
inadequate management practices, land tenure problems, etc. The team then
explains the intent of the program, its benefits to the community, the
approach and methodologies proposed, the roles to be played by the community,
by government and by the other agencies involved, and the type of mutual
commitment to be made.   Finally,  the team would seek an agreement in
principle for the subsequent steps to be taken together with the communitv
and would propose a workplan.
4.          DiaRnosis.  The awareness phase would be followed by a diagnosis,
involving most of the team members.   The purpose of the diagnosis is to
assess, with the community, the extent of their resources, their needs and
their constraints, and the problems they are facing.  The following tasks
would be carried out:
(i)   thorough analysis and definition of the social and the geographical
limits of the community's "terroir";
(ii)  in-depth study of the communityt its size, the different social groups
living and/or using the terroir, the land tenure system, the dynamics
and conflicts within and between groups, their organization, and the
role of women;
(iii) socio-economic condition of the community and infrastructure;
(iv)  definition of community needs, expectations, and priorities;
(v)   analysis of the ecological conditions at the micro level;
(vi)  inventory of lands and other natural resources to which the community
holds property or usufructuary rights;
(vii) analysis and evaluation of land use and production systems, and their
impact on the resources, degradation processes and corrective measures



-33                         ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
taken;
(viii)evaluation of the natural resources potential under improved management
scenarios; and
(ix)  preparation of a summary diagnosis to ba endorsed by the community.
5.          Social Organization of the Community. The diagnosis would enable
the community to better understand the problems t.ey are -- or will be --
facing with regard to natural resources and the real causes of these
problemss natural phenomena, exploitation and production practices, tenure,
social, etc.   They wiil also start to see what remedies could be proposed.
No common action can be taken, however, unless the community organizes itself
as one entity capable of making decisions, seeking outside support and
negotiating agreements with development and financial institutions on matters
affecting the community as a whole. The awareness and diagnostic phases will
demonstrate that all members and sub-groups of the community utilizing the
terroirt Ci) are concerned about and responsible for the condition of the
terroir's resources; (ii) must organize themuelves to work toRether to find
solutions; (iii) must have representatives to deal with their outside
partners.  The establishment of Terroir Management Committees (Comités de
Gestion du Terroir) is indispensable before any further step can be taken.
These committees exist already in many of the pilot projects.
6.          DesiRn of the ManaRement Plan.  The diagnosis process described
above is essential for the design of a land use and land management plan that
defines the best use for each part of the terroir and proposes the actions
required to improve the overall productivity of the land, guarantees a
sustainable production output, protects the key natural resources on which
production depends, and steadily enhances the living conditions of the
community.  The plan would contain a description of these actions, their
purpose, their expected impact, an estimate of the costs involved, and the
expected benefits. It is not possible to list these actions for each village,
as this must be decided by the community after discussions with the TM team.
These actions may be different from one village to another depending on
peoplets needs and expectations, their socio-economic conditions, and the
area's natural potential (availability and extent of the natural resources).
However, since the project's focus is on land management and natural
resources, it is possi'le to draw up a list of what should be part of the
Terroir Management package. This list includes such actions as anti-erosion
measures, water-harvesting works, small dams, watershed management, nursery
establisiment, village plantations, agroforestry, pasture improvement, wells,
firebreaks,  beekeeping,  and  others.    Illustrative  terroir  management
investments are shown in Annex 3 with a breakdown of the unit costs. The
final list of needed actions to be carried out vill depend on implementation
capacity, socio-economic benefit and priority order. The number of actions
that could be undertaken in each village is likely to be high, and priorities
will have to be selected.
7.          The criteria for selecting the actions to be included in the
management plan shall bes



- 34             ~             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
(i)   positive impact on the quality or quantity of natural resources
and  the  environment,  such  as  reducing  erosion,  increasing
rainwater infiltration, improving soil fertility, etc.;
(ii) positive (or at least non negative) impact on agricultural
production and income;
(iii) social acceptability;
(iv) technical simplicity for easy management and maintenance by the
community.
The above list may be reviewed from time to time but the criteria must remain
objective, easy to assess, and their number small.
8.          The Management Plan may also include investments that are not
related to natural resource management or agricultural production.   Some
social investments, for example, might be considered a necessity and
perceived by the community as a priority. This is otten the case for health
centers, drinking vater, schools and roads. While these investments fall
beyond the scope of this project and cannot be financed through it, the
project would help the community identify a source of support. Similarly,
investments such as emall rural industries or other profitable investments
might be an opportunity for which the project could help the community find
institutions that can support them.
9.          The design of a management plan is very delicate vork.  It
associates technical expertise on land potential, land uses, land management
techniques,  production  systems,  etc.   It also requires knowledge  and
recognition of peoples' own needs and priorities. For that purpose, full
understanding of the process by the community is essential as choices and
compromises must be made by them regarding the future zoning of their terroir
and the utilization of the lands and its resources. Sessions will be held
with the community to go through the process and define the criteria that
will be considered for selecting the appropriate management alternative.
10.   Communitv-Government Agreement.    The plan would be prepared and
discussed with the whole community to ensure that all understand it and agree
with it.  Once adopted by the community, the plan would then be submitted to
the government for technical and financial support. If accepted, a contract
is passed between the two parties, whereby the government commits itself to
providing technical and financial support and recognizes the community's
rights to the resources.   In return,  the cormunity commits  itself to
implementing the actions and respecting the clauses prescribed in the plan.
A financing plan would be agreed upon. Financing will be a mix of cowmnunity
contribution (cash and/or kind) and grants.
11.         ImDlementation.  Decentralized  government  and  non-government
services will help the communities implement their management plans. They
will provide, in addition to funds, extension and training services,
technical support, including administrative and legal matters. The community



- 35-                          ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
vill contribute with manpower, some funds and a commitment to respect the
management rules jointly agreed upon. For each investment the contribution
of each party would have been laid out in the contract.  For tasks to be
executed by specialized private or public enterprises, a contract would be
signed between the funding party and the enterprise under the supervision of
the technical services and the community.
12.         MonitorinR and Evaluation.  There are two main focus points in
monitoring and evaluation: (i) Project implementation and its physical impact
on the terroir; (ii) socio-economic impact. The monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation and physical impact would be done by measuring the
interventions at the terroir level (inputs) and assessing the impact on the
land, the natural resources and the agricultural productivity and production
(cutputs).  These outputs ares
(i)   an increase in soil vater resources, soil fertility. vegetative
cover,   fcdder  production,  agricultural  productivity  and
production,   seedling   production,   tree-planting,   organic
fertilizer use; and
(ii) a decrease in soil erosion, bush fires, uncontrolled grazing.
13.         The monitoring and evaluation of the socio-economic  impact
implies measuring how uhe social organization of the community has changed
through project implementation in terms of:
*i)   effective establishment of terroir management committees;
(ii) representation of all social groupe in the committees;
(iii) better avarenese and greater commitment of the communities;
(iv)  effectiveness of the committee in solving internal conflicts and
in dealing with community partners; and
(v)   successfully establishing the limits of the terroir, finalizing
the land use plan (zoning), redistributing land, negotiating the
contract and mobilizing people for the implementation phase of
the management plan.
14.   On the economic side, some of the inputs such as water-harvesting
measures are expected to bear results on a short-term basis (2-3 years) by
improving soil fertility and generating additional incomes for the community.
These benefits can be measured directly and cost benefit analysis is
possible. Other investments have long-term, often indirect, benefits that
are difficult to measure. Qualitative measurement methods should be employed
in the latter cases such as shorter distances to travel for vomen and
children to collect fuelwood and transport vater and, therefore, more time to
spend on other activities including schooling.



BRKINA FASO                                                             ANNEX 2
ENVIRM IEAt.rMANAGhÉÉT PROJECT                                                    Pago 1 of a
List of Pilot Op.ra-ions
PROVTICES             INITIAL            EX£CUTIN0                  EXECUTION PERIOD          DONORS              AUOUNT            OBSERVATIONS
OBJECTIES             AGENCY                      OF PROJECT
1  mu                 1800 Wtom; 112        PATECORE/IAE          Jan. 4, 1988-Mir. 31, 1991   FRG                CFAF 1260 min
vIl lages In BUN
2  KENEDOUCWU         1440 kmh; 34          CRPA HB/PND           Jae. 1, 1987-Dc. 8I, 1989    MÎ/NMRAY           CFAF 236 *In
VI lloges
3  KOSSI-MOIMN-     1990 k; 22              CC GTV of the         Jan. 1, 1982-mer. S1, 1989      P/CCCE/FACI     CFAF 8389 »In
SOWOU             vi llages ia Kossi    Mouhoun CRPA                                         IFAD
4  SISSIU-            7010 km;              Farn-Pour.            Jan. 1, 1984-Dc. 81, 1988    CCC               CFAF 8S *In
MOWIWHI           28 villages           project (AW)V
6  SOUwISENO-         1880 km;              PS8                   6 y.ars                       FRR + others      720 min [?]
OUALAN            17 villages
ô    OANZWRGW         UP 1 (AW)             UP 1 project          Jan. 1, 198-Dec. 31, 1989    FAC                CFAF 2276 mIn      Second phase
Zorgho (AW)          Belng restructured             CCCE                                 proposed
7    n    TOURIBA     UP la (AYV)           UP 10 proJ ct         Dec. 12, 198"-D«. al, 1991   FRC                CFAF 1809 *In
Diobougou (AW)
8  HOIET-             4 departments:        GTV unit of the       Jan. 1, 1982-Mbr. al, 1989    WB/CCCE/IFAC/     CFAF ô254 *In
KENEDOMI          sera,                 Haute Bassins                                        IFAD
Karangasso, VIgue    CRPA
A DJigonera,
Koumbl T
9  TAPOA              am  km' (whole        PDRI                  1989-1994                     CCC
province)
10 YATENA             110  km';             PNGTV Unit                                                                              oNt stérted
40 vI lages
Il OUIRrTENGA         1200 km';             PNV Unit                                            SuiS* Coop.                          Not started
S0 vil laes
12 VATENQA-           8 provinces (PoI)    Ouahlgouya DRPC        Oct. 1, 1m-oct. 1 1991        EC/EDF            CFAF 760 min
SOUROU-           6th EDF               (i filld unit)
SISSIu-
PASSORE O!
oX
Iii
èw



BURKINA FASO                                                             ANNEX 2
ENVUENTAL MGEMEN PROJECT                                                            Page 2 of a
List of Pilot Oporationi
PROVINCES             INITIAL             EXECUTINC                  EXECUTION PERIGD           DONORS              ANOUNT            OBSERVATIONS
OBJECTIVES             AGENCY                      OF PROJECT
13 YATENGA-           4 provinces (lot      Progran Central        Oct. 1, 1988-Dec. a1, 1994    IFAD               CFAF 3371 *In
PASSORE-BAM-      tranche)               Unit
SANUATENGA
14 COMOE-HiOWET       3087 km2              DRET/SPE Coooe         Jan. 1, 1981-Dec. S1, 89       EC/EDF            CFAF 743  i*;
(peut. zone)
16 ZOUNDKWEOCO       ls ka2                UP 3 project           Jan. 1, 1983-Jun. 30, 1989    Netberlandm        CFAF 1519 *In      Nogotiationu
(past. zone)          Mango (AVV)                                                                               under wey for an
extension
ZOUNDWEDGO                               East. Sondre          Jan. 1, 1977-Ju. 30, 1989    Netheriendu         CFAF 221 *In       Recurrent end
project                                                                                   lnvestmnt coot
UP 3 Mange (AVV)                                                                          figures are for
the perlod 1978-
88 prior to
Iateg-retion *tth
UP 3 Mange
Project
16 B WLGOU            2900 km2 (peut.       AW                    Apr. 24, 1986-Dec. 81, 1989   Itély/FAO           CFAf 471 min
.one)
BOULCGOW-                                East-Central CRPA     Aug. 1, 1983-Dec. a1, 1989    Italy/FAO          CFAf 17768 mIn
KOURITENCA
17 NAHOURI            Nahouri province S   GIV/MAE project                                        Canada                               Startup in 1990
departmnts 90/91
18 SANNATENGA         a villoges            Co ission                                             A group of
d'Am.nag.ment du                                     donors from
Territolru                                           Sanmatenga
(Technical
Comittee)
19 SANUATENGA         3 8 province.         PEDI/progrxmlng       1990-1994                      Nbtheriands       6,417 8 [?
BAN *                                    end execution of
NAMENTENCA                               lntegrated
development
20 OUBRITENCA         3viiiagemofthe             --                                                                                   Not startded
Dept. of Saemba



BURKINA FASO                                                            ANNEX 2
ENVIRONMENAL UAG-ACEUENT PROJECT                                                  Pag  a of 3
List of Pilot Operations
PROVINCES             INITIAL             EXECUTINC                 EXECUTION PERIOD           DONORS              AIOUNT           OBSERVATI ONS
OBJECTIVES            AGENCY                      OF PROJECT
21 OUDALAN (OURS!    Oursl zone             PLCD/PSB              Jan. 1, 1986-Uar. 81, 1990    FAO/UIDP           CFAF a98 *In
POND)
22 YATENGA-SOUI                             Agro-EcologIcal       Jan. 1, 1987-Jun. se, 1990    FRC                CFAF 109 *ni
Projece
28 CANZOURCOU                               Deve. Unlt UP 1       Jan. 1, 1983-Dec. 31, 1989    EDF               CFAF 1891 min      Evvluation
plann d by CCOE
Co
0
Pb
X>



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
VillaRe Nurserys Production capacity 5-10.000 plants/lear
Item              Unit       Unit Cost    Quantitv    Total Cost
(CFAF)                 (CFAF '000)
Investment
Well (15 m)                  one      3,750,000          1           3,750
Pumping equipment            one        100,000          1             100
Holding Tank                 one         50,000          1              50
Fence, link                  1 m     1,000,000         200             200
Mesh netting                 1 m        400,000         50              20
Metal stakes                 one          1,000         80              80
Cart + donkey                one        130,000          1             130
Wheelbarrow                  one         30,000          2              60
Sprayer                      one         60,000          1              60
Minor items                 batch       100,000          1             100
Total Investment                                               4,550
ODeration
Labor (1)                 man-day           300        700             210
Insecticide               lump-sum                                      10
Plastic baga                1,000            12         10              12
Miscellaneous                                                           50
Total Operation                                                  390
(1) Provided by the farmers themselves after training.
Sources MET



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
Agroforestry
The techniques and species used are presented in detail in
Appendix 2 to Annex 1 (Environnent and Natural Resources) of the FAO/CP
preparation report.
The standards below are based on the work times set for the
different zones. This work will be done by farmers who receive no
remuneration.
Work Times
Marking out                                        9 man-dayslha
Pittings    sandy soil (Sahel)                    30 holes/man-day
indurated soil (Plateau)              4 holes/man-day
Planting                                           3 man-days/ha
Manual maintenance (lot year)                      5 man-days/ha
Sourcet MET



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
Management of a Natural Forest
(10,000 ha base)
Total Cost
(CFAF 'OOOs)
Demarcations  4 man-days/km of perimeter at CFAF 300             48 (1)
Boundary marker placements    1 man-day/km of perimeter
at CFAF 300                       12 (1)
Opening of firebreaks   perimeter + 1 internal firebreak
10 man-days/km at CFAF 300             150 (1)
Boundary markeros        1 every 250 m at CFAF 500 each           8
Scarification (if necessary) 10X of areas
traction 2 ha/h at CFAF 5000/h       2.500
TOTAL                                                         2,718
(1)  Done by the farmers
Sources MET



- 42 -
ANINEX 3
Page 4 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Manaaement Investments
Compost Pit
Item                 Unit    Unit Cost  Quantitv   Total Cout
(CFAF)                  (CFAF)
Clay bricks                        one           5        400          2,000
Posts                              one        300         20           6.000
Poles                              one        300          15          5,000
Connections                        one        150          13          2,000
Seccos                            one         300          6           2,000
Subtotal                                                       15,000
Digging of pits
Small equipment items          batch                               20,000
Labor                         man-day       300         10           3,000  (1)
Reinforcement (cement)        lump sum                               7,000
Subtotal                                                       30,000
Grand total                                                    45,000
(1) provided by the farmers
(Sources AVV)



- 43 -
AEX 3
Page 5 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Manaaement Investments
Beekeeoing
At the level of a specific management group
Bases 200 hives for 40/50 beekeepers
Item                 Unit    Unit Cost  Quantity   Total Cost
(CFAF)                  (CFAF
'000.)
Hive                               one       7,500        200         1,500
Support                            one       2,500        200           500
Smoke box                          one      13,000         10           130
Coverails                          one       7,500         10            75
Gloves                             one       2,000         10            20
Extractor                          one       5,000         10            50
TOTAL                                                                 2,300
Source:  MET and Mouhoun Bend Agricultural Project



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
BURKINA PASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Manaaement Investments
Stone Bunde
PURPOSEs  To reduce runoff in order to slow erosion and facilitate rainwater
infiltration.
TECHNIQUE: Put in half-buried dressed stones along contours determined and
marked out by the farmers using vater-levels. Stones 20-30 cm long and 15-
25 cm high vill be needed, giving a volume of 0.08-0.10 mi per meter of bund.
The ends of the bund can be in the forn of rising vinge; gaps can be left to
facilitate vater dispersal in the event of heavy raine. The minimum height of
the bund must be between 20 cm and 25 cm. It is the height of the bund and
the slope of the terrain which determine the spacing of the bunds
-     100 m of bund per ha for a slope of 0.3Z (10 mi)
-     300 m                 for a slope of 1Z (30 m?)
_     700 m                 for a slope of 2Z (70 ni)
INVESTMENT COSTS
Labors  100Z manual work.  For an average slope of 1Z the needs ares
Contour marking                            9 days/ha
Collecting etones and hauling them in      70
Digging trench                             70
Placing stones                             70
Total                                      219 days/ha
In money terme                             CFAF 65,700/ha
Transports
-     By carts  0.3-0.4 m9/trip, one or two trips per day depending on
distance
-     By dumptrucks  7-8 m3/truck, 8-10 tripe/day (the Patecore project set a
standard of 100 m8/day/truck, with a maximum distance of 5 km from site
to quarry, i.e., 100 km/day
-     Cost per km of truck:  CFAF 250-300 (excl. driver; CFA? 600-1,000/day
with driver)
-     Truck rentali  CFAF 25-35,000/day.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
For 100 m of bund, the hauling of the stones could therefore cost between CFAF
3,000 and 4,000, making a per-hectare cost of between CFAF 3,000 and
CFAF 28,000. The following standard figures will be adopted:
Haulage     Labor
(CFAF 'OOOs/ha)
Central Plateau   10           100
Southwest          15           60
The stone bund has the decisive advantage of requiring les. maintenance than
an earth bund, which is more fragile and very vulnerable to trampling by
livestock and to the slightest error in the marking out of the contours.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir ManaRement Investments
Filter Dike for Flood Plain
TECHNIQUEs  Construct a stone diko across the drainage line of a flood plain
to check runoff, retain the soil and facilitate infiltration of water. If
need be, the dike can be strengthened by a line of gabions if flood waters are
considered too strong, together with an anchoring trench and a reinforced
spillway.
INVESTMENT COSTs The investment costs are of the same type as for the atone
bund but the quantities to be moved are much largers
Height                         50-60 cm
Length of dike                 100-300 m
Volumes of atones              1-2 m° per meter (AFVP)
2-4 me per meter (PATECORE)
Area benefiteds                0.8-1.5 ha/meter of dike
Haulage costs by truck:        CFAF 30,000-120,000 per 100 m of dike
Vork times (manual labor)s    2 men/day/mW, i.e., CFAF 60.00C-240,000
per 100 m of dike.
No maintenance will be required if the work is done properly (the main risk
being a lack of precautions upstream of the dike). Oving to sedimentation of
the basins, filter dikes may need to be raised after one or two wet seasons.
The following base costs will,be adopted:
Haulage                  Labor
CFAF '0009 per ha or 100 m of dike
Sahel              100                      100
Central Plateau    50                       180
Southwest           80                      100



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
Dam buildinR in the Sahelian zone
A.    Microdam (1)
Technical characteristics:    Length              25 m
Height             1.5 m
Average width      1 m
Construction cost                           CFAF '0008
Cement                                          75
Reinforcing rods                               125
Wood for formwork                               30
PVC and other pipe                              40
Minor equipment items                           20
Subtotal                                290
Fuel                                           295
Equipment rental                                75
Cost of equipment use                          720
Personnel                                      420
Total                                 1,800
B.    DeveloDment of irriRated areas  CFAF 200,000/ha
C.    Earth dam
Technical characteristicss    Length              40 m
Height            1.5 m
Width average      1.5 m
Construction cost (by analogy with A)       CFAF 'OOOs
Materials                                      485
Fuel                                           490
Equipment rental                               125
Cost of equipment use                        1,200
Personnel                                      700
Total                                 3,000
(1)   Sources     Ministry of Planning and Cooperation -- BKF project (by
extrapolation).



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Terroir Management Investments
Miscellaneous items without detailed cost estimate
Total Cost
(CFAF '0008)
1.    Construction of a drilled well in Sahel Region
Drillings                             60 m deep at CFAF 125,000/m   7,500
Drainwells                            30 m deep at CFAF 250,000/m   7,500
Drinking troughss                     4 at CFAF 200,000 each            800 (1)
Manual pumping equipments                                                800
Total                                                                15,900
2.    DeeDeninR of a nond
(increase of 400 m8 in holding capacity)
Preparation by tractors               75 h at CFAF 5,000/h              375
Manual removal of 400 m3 of earth:   50 men for 15 days
at CFAF 300/day                   225
Hauling by cart:                      80 may-days at CFA? 500             40
Total                                                                   640
3.    Scarification of slopes in arazina lands
Tractions  2 ha/h at CFAF 5,000/unit, cost per 1,000 ha               2,500
4.    Vaccination yard.  (Sources Ministry of Planning BKF project)
Total setup cost.  Concrete cocistruction                             3,000
(1)   Made by the farmers



BURKINA FAO
ENVIR011E0TAL    NIIENNT PROJECT
Projects Ccnponents by Yer
Totals IncLuding ContinSencies                                        Totals Including Contingencies
CFAF                                                                   SUS
_.............................................................................. .................... ................................... ..............
1991192 1992V93 1993 94  1994195 1995/96    Total                  1991/92 1992/93 1993J94 1994/95 1995/96    Tota(
A. TERROIR  mNIT 3                              MOY  72.5    443.7    456.7    774.1    100.4  2497.5                 2.9        1.8       1.8        3.1       0.4        9.9
B. TERR/FOREST MUII 2 PROV                     527.1    361.0    381.7    417.9    212.3   1900.0                     2.1        1.4       1.5        1.7       0.8        7.5
C. TECH. SUPPORT 18 PROV                         67.3      69.9       72.6       75.4      78.3    363.5              0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3        1.4
D. ENV. NONITORINS
1. HAT'L ENUT.  aUITURtIu                  215.5       38.6       40.1       41.5      43.1    378.8              0.9       0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        1.5
2. PROJECT lmPACT NCIT0RIM                   86.3      51.2       30.7       21.5      67.9    257.6              0.3       0.2        0.1        0.1       0.3        1.0
.................................................                     .............................................................................. ........................
SubTrotal                                        301.8       89.8      70.7       63.1    110.9    636.4               1.2        0.4       0.3        0.2       0.4        2.5
E. IUNAN RES. DEVEULPT                          112.9      57.7       47.1       51.0      67.9    336.5              0.4       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.3        1.3
F. PROJECT NAIIUUUNN      T                    265.8       67.8    167.8         73.0      69.2    643.6              1.1       0.3        0.7        0.3       0.3        2.5
.................................................                     .............................................................................. ........................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                            1997.4   1089.9   11ff.6   1454.5    639.1   6377.5                    7.9        4.3       4.7        5.7        2.5      25.2
.. .................................................................................
Valuas Scated by 1000000.0 1/3/1991 10:47
'o
I. 11



BURKINA FASO
EEVIRWINEUTAL MANAGfEMNT PROJECT
SLery Accounts Coat Swumry
CFAF                                    SUS                                 X Total
..............................           ..........-.----------                                ----- X Foreign  sase
Local   Foreign         Totsl          Local  Foreign        Total       Exchange        Costs
..............................           ............................................. ........................ .......................................
1. IYNESTFET OeSiS
A. ClYIL NORKS
1. BILDIlGS                              87.6         70.5       158.1            0.3        0.3        0.6            44.6         2.9
2. IXFRASTRUCTUM    DUKUS              1731.0        192.3      1923.3            6.8        0.8        7.6            10.0        35.1
..............................           ............................................. ........................ .......................................
SubrTotet            *                     1818.6       262.8      2081.4             7.2        1.0        8.2            12.6        38.0
B. EQUIFENT & MATERIALS
1. ANALYTICAL EQUIPUNXT                  43.2        230.6       273.9            0.2        0.9        1.1            84.2         5.0
2. OfFIOE  EQUIPFET                        4.2        12.8        17.0            0.0        0.1        0.1            75.3         0.3
3. AUDIo-VISML EWUIPNEUT                   2.6        22.9        25.5            0.0        0.1        0.1            90.0          0.5
4. OFFICE  FURIE tRE                       9.8        14.5        24.3            0.0        0.1        0.1            59.6          0.4
5. FORESTRY EQUIPNENT                      2.0         8.0        10.0            0.0        0.0        0.0            80.0          0.2
...................... ..........................  ...........................   ............... .............
Sub-Total                                    61.8       288.9        350.7            0.2        1.1        1.4            82.4         6.4
C. VENICLES                                  93.4       626.1        719.5            0.4        2.5        2.8            87.0        13.1
D. AcMISITIiO  MmPS, PHOTOS                  22.5         28.8        51.3            0.1        0.1        0.2            56.1         0.9
E. SUPPL. STUDIES & SURVEYS                 114.7       141.7        256.5            0.5        0.6        1.0            55.3         4.7
F. TRAIIhXC                                 253.6        20.0        273.6            1.0        0.1        1.1             7.3         5.0                                                               I
a. CONSULTANT SERVICES                      173.8        163.2       337.0            0.7        0.6        1.3            48.4         6.2                                                              un
N. PPF REFINANCINS                            0.0       151.8        151.8            0.0        0.6        0.6           100.0         2.8                                                              o
Total INWSTMNT COSTS                       2538.4      1683.4      4221.8            10.0        6.7       16.7            39.9        77.1
..............................           ............................................. ........................ .......................................
Il. REIURREET 00STS
. ..................
A. DDIT'L OPERATINC COSTS
1. SALARIES                             543.2          0.0       543.2            2.1        0.0        2.1             0.0         9.9
2. TRAVEL EXPEKSES                      120.3          0.0       120.3            0.5        0.0        0.5             0.0          2.2
3. VEHICLE NAIhTEhIANE COSTS            157.6        112.6       270.2            0.6        0.4         1.1           41.7          4.9
4. ESUIPMENT MAINTENANE                   2.8        98.7       101.5            0.0        0.4        0.4            97.2          1.9
5. OFFIOE  OPERATIN   COSTS            139.8         79.2       219.0            0.6        0.3        0.9            36.2          4.0
6. CIVIL UORKS MAINTENANCE                 0.7         0.2         0.8            0.0        0.0        0.0            20.0          0.0
..............................            ............................................. ........................ .......................................
SibrTotal                                   964.5       290.6       1255.1            3.8        1.1        5.0            23.2        22.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                       3502.9      1974.0      5476.9            13.8        7.8       21.6            36.0       100.0
Physical Contingencies                  247.5        167.1       414.6            1.0        0.7         1.6           40.3          7.6
Price Contfngencies                     341.1        145.0       486.0            1.3        0.6        1.9            29.8         8.9
total PROJECTS COSTS                      4091.5       2286.1      6377.5            16.2        9.0       25.2            35.8       11f.4
Va...s...I.......1000000.0...1/3/1991..............................................................................



MEKINA FASO
ENVIRCIIHEITAL NNUNEIINT PROJECT
Swry Aocouat by Project cqmponhnt
CFAF
NAT'L   PROJECT                                       Physical          Price
TERROIR  TERR/FOR    TECH.   ENT.   IMPACT         PEAU    PROJECT                 Contingemles      Ccntingenfes
NT 3   EST M1UT  SUPPORT NONITORI M10ITORI   RES.   MANE                         .................................
PROV    2 PROV    18 PROV      McG       m     DEVELPIT     NT        Total        X    Awlt         X   Amuat
1. INVESTUEN CtOSTS
....................
A0. CIVIL 11RlS
1. WUILDIMS                        15.0    126.0         0.0       8.5      8.5       0.0       0.0    158.1       14.0      22.1     5.7       9.0
2. INFRASTRUCTURE  MS              1200.0    573.3    150.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   1923.3       10.0    192.3    9.4    181.4
.....................................................................................................................
Stà-tot&l                            1215.0    699.3    150.0         8.5       8.5       0.0      0.0   2081.4       10.3    214.4    9.1       190.4
A1. EUJIPIIENT & NATERIALS
1. ANALYTICAL EWUIPIIENT             9.7       0.0      75.0    113.8       69.3       0.0       6.0    273.9       10.0      27.4    6.4       17.6
2. OFFICE E0UIPIENT                  3.0       12.5       0.0      0.0        0.5      0.0       1.0      17.0      10.0       1.7     2.0       0.3
3. ANsIO-VISUAL ESUIPSENT             7.5       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0     15.0       3.0      25.5       4.1       1.0     2.5       0.6
4. OFFICE FUIIITURE                   8.2      11.6       0.0       0.5       0.0      0.0       4.0      24.3      10.0       2.4     4.2       1.0
5. FORESTRT EOUIFNT                   0.0      10.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      10.0      10.0       1.0     8.4       0.8          _
Subrtotal                              28.5     34.1       75.0    114.3      69.8      15.0      14.0    350.7        9.6      33.6     5.8      20.5
A2. VEHICLES                          480.0    188.5        0.0      11.0      10.0      0.0      30.0    719.5       10.0      71.9    8.0       57.9
A3. ACCUISITIO  NPS, PHOTOS            10.5      40.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      51.3      10.0       5.1     8.6       4.4
M4. SUPPL. STUDIES & SURVETS           45.0      55.5      75.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     81.0    256.5       10.0      25.6   10.4       26.7
A5. TRAINIIG                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    273.6        0.0    273.6       7.5      20.5     9.9      27.1
A6. COISULTAIT SERVIOES                 0.0    108.0        0.0      25.3      82.2       0.0    121.5    337.0        6.8      22.9     8.4      28.4
A7. PPF REFIMAUCINS                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    151.8    151.8        0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
.............................................................................................................
Total IVESTIENIT COSTS               1779.0   1126.2    300.0    159.1    170.6    28.6    398.2   :221.8              9.3    394.1      8.4    355.4
Il. RE*URENT CO6TS
£0. A0DIT'L OPEIUTI16 COSTS
1. SAUltIES                        189.0    243.2        0.0       22.8     22.8       0.0      65.4    543.2        0.0       0.0   10.5       57.0
2. TRAVEL EXPEISES                   78.7     34.1       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       7.5    120.3        2.8       3.4    10.8      13.0
3. VEIICIE MAINTENANCE COSTS          8.2    187.5        0.0      20.0       0.4       0.0     54.0    270.2        0.8       2.0   10.1       27.3
4. ESUIFPEINT MAIIITENCE              0.0       0.0      0.0      101.5      0.0       0.0       0.0    101.5       10.0      10.2   10.4       10.5
5. OFFICE OPERATINO COSTS           72.0      45.0       0.0       24.0      24.0      0.0      54.0    219.0        2.2       4.8   10.3       22.6
6. CIVIL  KWt NAINTEUAJIE             0.0       0.8       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.8     10.0       0.1    15.9       0.1
..........................................................................................................................
Sah*totat                            348.0    510.6         0.0     168.3      47.2      0.0     180.9   1255.1        1.6      20.5   10.4    130.6
..........................................................................................................................
Total  MASELIME COSTS               2127.0   1636.8    300.0    327.5    217.8    288.6    579.1   5476.9              7.6    414.6      8.9    486.0
Physfcat Contirngecies              177.9    111.6       30.0      30.5      19.5     20.5      24.6    414.6
Price Contingencles                 192.6    151.6       33.5      20.8     20.2      27.4      39.8    486.0        6.9      33.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2497.5   1900.0    363.5    378.8    257.6    336.5    643.6   6377.5             7.0    448.2      7.6    486.0           ba
Taxes                                0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0                            Km
Foreign Exchaau                    756.8    457.5    108.3    314.9    129.2          34.1    485.3   2286.1         7.8    179.1
........................................................................................................................... ...................... .....
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  1/3/1991  10:46



81UKIA FASO
ENVIROIIENTAL NANEENT PROJECT
Sumry Acconmte by T er
Totale Inolttudh  Colng oi. cles                         Totale Including Contingefnles
CFAF                                                      SUS
...... ......... ............... ......................... . .........................................................  ..
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994U95 1995/96   Totat    1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96   Total
I. IYVS WIT OOTS
.............
A. CIVII UOKS
1.  UILOILGS                        97.5    40.0    44.0       3.8      3.9   189.2         0.4      0.2      0.2      0.0     0.0      0.7
2. IMFRASTRUCTRE WORKS             499.7   549.2   588.3   598.3    61.6  2297.1             2.0     2.2      2.3      2.4     0.2      9.1
..... ....... ........ ............... . ...........      ............. ....................
SubrtotaI                             597.3   589.2   632.3   602.1    65.5  2486.3             2.4      2.3     2.5      2.4      0.3     9.8
B. EG0IPNENT & MATERIALS
1. AILYTILCAL EWUIPUU              194.8    28.6    18.7    19.4    57.4   318.9            0.8      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.2      1.3
2. OFFICE EQUIPIUt                  19.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    19.0          0.1     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1
3. AUDIO-VISUML EQUIPUNlT           22.8     4.4      0.0      0.0      0.0    27.2          0.1     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1
4. OFFIOE R UITIRE                 22.8      0.0     0.0      5.0      0.0    27.8          0.1     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.1
5. FORESTRY E0UIPHENT                5.6      0.0     0.0      6.2      0.0    11.8          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
.; ------  -----------------   ....... ...... ................................ ............................
Sub-Totat                             265.0    33.0    18.7    30.7    57.4   404.8             1.0      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.2      1.6
C. wUICLES                            423.9      0.0    16.3   391.6    17.5   849.4            1.7      0.0     0.1      1.5      0.1     3.4
D. ACOUISITIOH MUF! Pm. OTOS           33.9      1.7      1.8      1.9    21.4    60.8          0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1      0.2
E. SWPL. STUDIES & SURVS               53.1    41.0   130.0    33.9    50.9   308.8             0.2      0.2     0.5      0.1      0.2      1.2
F. TRAINING                            97.6    57.7    47.1    51.0    67.9   321.2             0.4      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.3      1.3
G. COUJLTAUT SEViWS                   115.4    97.0    69.4    51.4    55.1   388.3             0.5      0.4     0.3      0.2      0.2      1.5
M. PPF MEFIAuMCIN                     151.8      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   151.8          0.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.6
------------ï ...................    ..  ...................... ......................
Total IYNESTUENT CSTS                173L 0   819.7   915.6  1162.4   335.6  4971.3             6.9     3.2      3.6      4.6      1.3    19.6
Il. RECURREHT CGTS
A. ADOIT'L OPERATI1S COSTS
1. SALARIES                        110.3   115.4   120.0   124.8   129.8   600.2            0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      2.4
2. TRAVEL EXPEISES                  25.2    26.3    27.3    28.4    29.5   136.7             0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.5
3. VEHICLE NAINTENANCE  MOSi        55.5    57.6    59.8    62.1    64.5   299.6             0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.3      1.2
4. ECUIPIIT NINTEAU                 22.7    23.6    24.4    25.3    26.2   122.2             0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.5
5. OFFIOE OPENATIUG COSTS           45.6    47.4    49.2    51.1    53.1   246.4             0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      1.0
6. CIVIL UGIS FAINTENAE              0.0     0.1      0.2      0.3      0.4      1.1         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
-----~~~ __ . __...................................... .. .................... ...................... _..............
Su-.Total                             259.4   270.3   280.9   292.0   303.5  1406.2             1.0      1.1     1.1      1.2      1.2     5.6
Total PRIOJECT COSTS                 1997.4  1089.9  1196.6  1454.5   639.1  6377.5             7.9     4.3      4.7      5.7      2.5    25.2
.               .............................................................................................01/3/1991.10:
Vaue sSelted by 100COWO.  1J3/1991  10:46
CrE
O"X



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
BURKINA FASO
ENVIRLONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
-------------------------------------------------------__----------------
IDA Fiscal Year                Disbursements                  Cumulative
and Semester              Semester      Cumulative           Disbursement
(US$ million)                (SDR million)
----------------------------------------------------_---_------__---------
FY92  2                     2.0 a/          2.0                   1.4
FY93  1                     0.9             2.9                   2.0
2                     0.9             3.8                   2.6
FY94  1                     1.1             4.9                   3.4
2                     1.1             6.0                   4.2
FY95  1                     1.5             7.5                   5.2
2                     1.5             9.0                   6.3
FY96  1                     1.5            10.S                   7.3
2                     1.5            12.0                   8.3
FY97  1                     1.5            13.5                   9.4
2                     1.5            15.0                  10.4
FY98  1                     1.5            16.5                  11.5
Notes     This schedule is based on effectiveness in December 1991.
ai   Includes reimbursement of PPF (US$600,000), and the initial deposit
into the Special Account (US$700,000).



- 54 -
BURKINA FASO                                  Anezx 
ZNVIRONMENTAL KMANAGDNT PROJECT                         .
lmplementation Schedule il
PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4       PYS
1.  TERROIR MANCGEHENT PLANS
(Gnagna, Knedougou, Kouritenga)                                                   I
Staffing                                      I           --
Procurement Office Furniture and Equipment I--         III
Procurement Vehicles                         I--       I         I         II             I
Design and Implementation of SMPs             |       -- -30-----30---- 30--------30--I----
Monitoring                                    |- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - -
Evaluation                                    |X       |X          XX      |X       IX   XX|
2.  COMBINED FOREST-TERROIR MANAGEMENT PLANS
(Bougouriba and Houet)                     I         I         I        I         I        I
Office/Residential Buildings                  1--------                              
Staffing                                       t       IIII
Procurement Vehicles                           t       I         I         I        I        I
Procurement Equipm nt                          t       I         t        I         I        |
Procurement Haps. photos                      I X      |         | X       I        I      X
Studies and Survsys                           I --------                        -        -
Design and Implementation of THPs             I    ---- ---201------271---I-------
Design of Forest Management Plans             I    ----I- ---1             1        1        I
Implementation of Forest Management Plans              I         1--------I1------      --1
Monitoring                                    I---               ------- I
Evaluation                                    j X      I X       1 XX      I X      IX   XXI
3.  ASSISTANCE TO OTHER PROJECTS (18 provinces) -  - - -           --- -            -- -
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Staffing                                      t----    1         I         I        I
Procurement Office Equipment                   t       II-t
Procurement Remote Sensing Equipment          1--------                     
Setting up Software Programe                  I      --I
Consultation (Management)                     I ---I             I
Procurement Aerial Photos                     t        t         I        I         I        I
Procurement Satellite Imagery                 1         1        t-            t--           I
Interpretation of Imagery and Photo                    I- - - --- --                         I
Monitoring--                                   --- ----
Evaluation                                      X      | X       1 XX      | X      I X   XXI
5.   UMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                   I         I        I         I        I         i
Staffing                                      i--      I         I
Training of Extension Agents                  I- -         -- ----                 -    --
Workshops Team Building                       I  X    I          I  X    I          I  X
Workehops ProjectlApproach Ownership          I   ----I          I         |        I        I
Workshops Approach Assessment & Improvement|           I  X    I  X    I  X    I  X    I
Trust Building at Community Level             I    ---300-------SO------57-------30 -------
Monitoring                                    1- -     1- -      1- -      1- -     1- - -
Evaluation                                    I X      |X        | XX      IX       I X   XXI
6.  PROJECT MGT, STUDIES, REVIEWS, AUDIT
Staffing of Central Unit                       1       IIII
Procurement Vehicles and Office Equipment    I         IIII
External Assistance                           IX   X  IX   X  I X   X  IX   X  IX   X  t
Annual Technical Semuinaro                    IX       IX        I X       IX       IX        I
Annual Pro1ect Technical Reviev               I X       | X      I X       I X          | X
Mid-Term Studies                              I        |          ` --     I        |        I
Mid-Term Review                               I                  I X       I        |         I
Audit                                         |X        |X       | X       |X         X       I
Project Monitoring                            I- - - - - - - - - -I
Evaluation                                    | X       I X      I XX      | X      | X   XX
--------- Contlnuous, - - - - - Episodic, X Punctual



- 55 -                                          ANNE   7
OURKINU FASO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
APPROXIVATE DATES                          CTIVITY                          EXPECTED  SKILL                         STAFF   P
9/91                 Project Lounch Workshop               Envlronm ntallat
Procurment                                             g
PlIbursoment
11/91                Initll Supervislon                  TYek manacer                                             4
(to raviow *txrt-up  nd.             Forester
orgenizational arrangements
08/92                Second Supervlsion (end               Environuentallat
firat annuel workahop on             Workohop Facilitator                                    9
natural retoure.                     Range Mbnagement
managemant operations)
09/92                Third Supervlslon                     EnvironmentelIt
(to revl.w PYI program               Inutitutlonal Analyst                                   4
end adequecy provinclal
end national-level
coordination mechanlame)
08/98                Fourth Supervlslon (<nd               Environu_nt llot
(second annuel workshop              Workahop Facillator                                    8
on naturel resource                  Agronomiat
management operatione)
09/93                Fifth Supervlsion                     Envlronm_ntallt
(to r.vlw PY2 accompliah-           M.E Speclallat                                          4
monte and adequacy of                Fore*ter
monltorlng)
08/94                Vld-T.rm R-vlw                       Environment llot
(to revlw recults 4 key             Lawyer, Agronomiot                                     le
PY3 studles, participate             Range Managem_nt
third annual workshop,               Fore-ter
deotrmine any major changes
In project deaign)
09/94                Seventh Supervision                   Environmentallot                                        4
(to ravle  Implementatlon           Foreter
mid-term rmvlw concluslons)
08/95                Elghth Supervlsion                    Environment llt
<to examine respect of               Range Management                                        0
land-une rules In                    Forester
Implomented terroir
managemnt plans, end
participate fourth annuel
workshop)
0C/96                Ninth Supervislon                     Environm»nte llt                                        4
(to examine lest tranche             Rural Engineer
of land management plans
end execution land
Improvement works In
provlouly-approv.d
plans)
08/98                Tenth Supervislon (to                 Environmentl l-t                                        ô
participate tifth annuel             Economiet
workahop end prepare PCR)
Notes: 1. This cchedule i based on effectivenes* In Auguat 1991.
2. Staff Input In *w includes fieid tise only.
S. Financial management, accounting and audit follow-up wlll be
*uperviled as part of thomatic financial supervisions of other projecte
(résetrch end agricultural support srvice)



- 56 -
Annex 8
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Working Paiers
1.   The Terroir Management Approach
2.   Combined Forest and Terroir Management
3.   Environmental Monitoring
4.   Human Resources Development
5.   Detailed Project Costa



2                                                                          I
BURKINA FASO                                                          O,P -                                 --
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                               MALI
PROJET NATIONAL DE GESTION DES TERROIRS   i                                                                                '    ER N r-_
POPULATION, MIGRATION AND TRANSHUMANCE                                                   7 -IomorQNI                                      z
POPULATION, MIGRATION ET TRANSHUMANCE i                                                            - -                                              ,,-  i
POPULATION DENSITY BY PROVINCE:                                              /                                                                 ,
DENStTE DEPOPULATION PAR PROVINCE:                                                                                                   E
-° INHABITANTS PER KM' (1983)                                                                                                           4 3S
40   HABITANTS PAR KM' <1983)3
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SN O. (                                                    6/4-â      
20                                                    Ouahlg   a IM                  f3 . -
40                                I   /                                                       27 EN                                          z. '     oA
,            ra                C              7x   oæiXn~ -t    rBoulaa an O eaee #ta 9
I 8  ` 0                                                                                              GNU«A NA                              C        r~ o bN
TO   n.- <                                                                             t           otz..'woeoo' /  /tO2  a o  `  r
tKENEDOUGOU~~~         I             /w                                                                                                          ptIO z.     anC z/..5t5ç   ` ` 
MALI l
5 t4 1 ,1'OUET»i' x~V                                                                                                                       -   /2 '  jNWEG s
ç~~~~~~~OS j,                                                                                                        t I3ORM ;                                    gg        .9  O,GU E
(.     , ' .               i          J                                 U                                     GRf                      TAPOA r
la                                                                     ZOgO                        rada NGourma s   Ia
C fz s75_5 / t > GH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANZOURTGOU   KOPi 
20                                 - Banfora  MO                                                     '> 22        K17ADTRANGA
f  -j      >~~~~ANGWf ~~~~   \L    D~~AZEGA /              ,      2- KUITEG
\KNDUGOU{                                                          2                    UDEG\
HOUETX                                       12so~>/~ssu               38
~~6-'                        '-~~~~~~    »B~~OULGOU JANU 
OUGOURIBA                      ,        O~Ldo                                                        BENIN
GHANATG
MIGRATORY MOVEMENTS
Banfora                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND TRANSHUMANCE:
FLUX MIGRATOIRES
ET TRANSHUMANCE
HEAVY IMMIGRATION AREAS          m   NATIONAL CAPITAL
__ *  '    COMOE            ,  g         * éGaoua               ZONE A FORTE tMMIGRATION          W    CAPITALE NATIONALE
PROVINCE CAPITALS                       l  20 40 60  80
100  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      r1  ~~~~~~~WEAK IMMIGRATION AREAS           CAPITALES PROVINCIALES   KILOMETERSI I 
T-           I      LJ  ON20  A F                               INHABITANTS PER KM'
400,                               - _  HOME- SENDING AREAS               HABITANTS PAR KM'
d1o    ..              t. f < < *  }   | ZONE DE DEPART       PROVINCE 8OUNDARIES                     _
I                           '_ w  i  5 <      PEOPLE                                IUMITES DE PROVINCES                                                t
n}  §  -, JHOMME                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
COTE D IVOIRE                         4                                      LIVESTOCK                        '   MRONTIERES INTERNAT/ONALES                               o
o                                                               _t           BETAlt                                                                                       2          3



5°5'                                                                                                                                  5' 3-  AUi-  IT ,'  NI U
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                       NIGER
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                         Û ,     .              _
PROJET NATIONAL DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                                                                < v               NIGERIA
PHYSICAL AND ECOLOGICAL FEATURES                                   .                                                                                  * ,1-     \
ASPECTS PHYSIQUES ET ECOLOGIQUES                                                                                         -            oLNE      -
_14'                                                                                                                                        Ni y    14t 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r N x-y.
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sik- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~jbA
-13'                                                                                                                                                 4E < E*/*D--13  BN
.u',+O`-ttS~~~~~~                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~ H A     A                   PAVED1'.N RI
ROUTES NONRIUMEES
L~  ROUINES NONPITAMEf
b60                                    CAPIYALES O IN MI RSLROA
(AVEAGE NNUA RAIFA-  -CHINT ERNTOA FROUORE
t =_ /    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$HEE ENL MM. 
CÔTE  -          DIVOIRE \' \                                                                                      OGU\NEENNE NRONTAEES NATIONALES
S DANIAN'                      t  PROINCE CAPITALS 
->a   ,   \  rO boos    gu                                                t ç 3  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDANIAN E  CRAOPITEALES PROVINCIALES
C~~~~~~~~~ Ô                                                                                                XDIVOIRE SUVANO-GUINEENNE.  FNROENRTEARES5INTERNATIONALES 
5.   ,  f             3,B \'À               2,ff                  !-                     ,oo                    !-                   2,B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  1 



_ 154                                                    3'                             -                               1-    /   "        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  _l;   t          /   | hlAURITANIA |                      j        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIITNI 
OUDALAN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~,4~AIJRIH                                     NIGER-.~
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >__R          NIGER
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R `FASOG <
PROJET NATIONAL DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                                                    ,                                                                                                                            _
PROJECT SITES LOCATION                                                                                            rUI
LOCALISATION DES SITES DU PROJET                                                                        jM                                                       IGHAS
TG;e.S  SSDVOIRE
-14                    PILOT PROIECT INTERVENTION AREAS.
ZONES D INTEHVENTION DES PRO/ETS PîLOTES.                                                                                                                                                                           N7.-,
C   PATECORE Ç7 VIlLAGES)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
M NENA UIONKELE Il IVILLAGESI                                                                                                                                                                  SE-
t                              () CEPA MOUHOUN (3 VILLAGES,                                                                                        A
R) FARA POURA I22 VILLAGES]
UPI ZORGHO (15 VILLAGES)I 
OUP1 DIEBOUGOU 23 VILLAGES)                                                                                                                           SANMATENGA
CRPA HAUTS HAUTINS (R VILLAGES) 
EROJECTINTERVENTION AREASI C-__
ZcPRrON DÊES DITRVEGAN DUE ENETROJE R2I: ON                                                            IL,~       P    ySoE )__i                                                                            F    
~Z   COMMUNITY -lDN MANUGEMENTA OPERATIONS 
OPTETIONS DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                                                     o.
Tl   AGKUP SUPPORT TO PHISTINO PHOIECTS                -'          Noo
JAPPUI AUR PROJETS EXATJANTSOUREG
COUEBKNEDQ OUEST A1CORRII  Kl SK                                       O
MUETANGLENT OPERATIONS 
OPERAVN  COMRINEED DE GESTION DE
FORETSE DE TERROIRS                             I
4   <         WJt                         <<  5                               rO r                           r         o                     i    T O G O                i                     P VED ROAVS~~~~~~~~~8A z    T    0 
s  1~X «  s                                  ZOU G   H   A   N     ou GOU                                                          ROATES NONEITAMEES
1U                                                                                                                                                                                                           ECOLGICAL DTERA                                 NAIONAL CPITALA
O  p ZO      UD        Up 80 I      oAEdo                 rIES4                                 L                                                                                                              ZONES ECODOGIOUEV                                CAPRERLE NATÎOUALE
BOUGOUEIEtS R                                                                                                                                                      t   t    f .rX -vT 5yeD BAHEL0ÊNNE CA>AIES PRPL INCIALES
CÔTE k ~\D,_v   R;5   \S                                                                r                                                      E SOUDANAAS                                               PROVINCE goUNRDUIS
R     T RAOGOIUN                                ITRNATf IONLrOUNDRIE
C  O T E   -,.    X  D  I V O I R E   t                                                                     rl   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~       ~     ~~~~~SOVRANO-GAINEENNP  PE ~IOUPRTIERETS INEPRNAEIDNASEV
e        N    1'    N"EMINS DE FER 4-                                                                                                        p                              2



